Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Mobile Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Halo View review: An affordable Fitbit alternative By Kelly Hodgkins Close $79.00 Low cost Affordable membership Lightweight Focus on wellness No GPS Not as durable as others Amazon unveiled its Halo fitness band in 2020 to mixed reviews. Though many liked the simple design and abundance of wellness features, the voice tracking and fat scanning features caused a stir. The company listened to this feedback and is back with its second iteration of the fitness tracker. The new Halo View takes the best features of the original Halo , strips the controversial ones, and adds one major feature missing in the Halo band. Does this new band deliver on its promise to “build a healthier lifestyle right from your wrist?” We tested it to find out.
Fitbit-like and feature-filled Light as a feather Fitness tracking falls short in one area Temperature-tracking while you sleep Halo Fitness brings the burn Tone-d down creepiness Nutrition adds a new dimension Affordable monthly membership Our take Fitbit-like and feature-filled When I first saw Amazon’s new Halo View, my first thought was “this looks just like a Fitbit.” The Halo View has Fitbit’s traditional rectangular body, soft elastomer band, and bright, colorful AMOLED display. It’s a bit boxier than the current generation Fitbit Charge 5, but the resemblance is undeniable.
Polar’s newest smartwatch could be a Fitbit and Garmin killer Amazon promises to refund some customers after axing Halo devices Best Fitbit in 2023: 6 best watches and trackers Halo View’s feature set is very competitive. It boasts a seven-day battery life and has held up to that claim in my testing. It also is equipped with an optical heart-rate sensor, a pulse oximeter capable of on-demand measurements, and a temperature monitor for your skin. You can wear the Halo View in the shower and while swimming thanks to its 50-meter water resistance.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Light as a feather The Halo View looks like a Fitbit but doesn’t have the same feel as a Fitbit. When compared to most other fitness bands which push 30 grams in weight, the 20.6 gram Halo View is incredibly lightweight. The View is so lightweight that I often forgot I was wearing it. It’s also extremely comfortable on the wrist with an easy-to-close band that doesn’t pinch or, at least for me, irritate my skin.
If you want a fitness band that doesn’t weigh you down, then the Halo View should be your first pick.
The Halo View also doesn’t have the same solid feel as a Fitbit. Though it may feel low-cost, it doesn’t perform like an inexpensive device. The Halo View performed above expectations during testing. Battery life lasted up to a week, and sensor readings were accurate. Though the band attaches awkwardly to the top of the sensor unit, it held securely on my wrist, and the screen remained scratch-free during the testing.
Fitness tracking falls short in one area Image used with permission by copyright holder Amazon is still new to the fitness tracking space, but you wouldn’t know it. The Halo app is surprisingly polished with an interface that makes it simple to find the information that you need. And that information is abundant. Amazon’s Halo View compiles all the common health metrics you need to track your fitness like step count, heart rate, calories, and more. The View uses a weekly points system to gauge your activity level which is perfect for busy people. Instead of cramming thousands of steps into each day, you can take a day off, exercise when you have more time, and still meet your fitness goals. GPS is the one glaring omission. The View does not have an integrated GPS and doesn’t use the GPS on your phone. As a result, it doesn’t show distance or pace during an outside activity. Most people likely won’t care, but runners and bikers will be disappointed.
Temperature-tracking while you sleep Halo View tracks your sleep automatically each night and does an excellent job detecting when you fall asleep and wake up. It also calculates a sleep score, which gives you a quick and easy way to assess your sleep quality without a deep dive into a myriad of metrics. If you want to explore the details, you can do that, too. The Halo app breaks sleep down into deep, light, REM sleep, as well as the number of disturbances, time awake, and more.
Amazon Halo View not only tracks your nighttime heart rate and movement, but also measures your skin temperature at night. This adds yet another metric that you can use to help diagnose sleep problems or monitor your health. Wake up feeling tired but slept a solid eight hours? You can check the temperature stats to see if temperature played a role in your sleeplessness. Perhaps you need to shed a layer or add a blanket to keep yourself comfortable at night. Temperature also can be used to detect illness, track your menstrual cycle, and monitor other changes in your body or environment.
Halo Fitness brings the burn Image used with permission by copyright holder The Halo View integrates with Amazon’s Halo Fitness which provides access to a growing library of on-demand workouts led by professional fitness trainers. You can choose between cardio, outdoor, strength, yoga, and mobility classes. And there are workouts for all fitness levels. Like Apple Fitness and iFit, the workouts are primarily bodyweight exercises, but that doesn’t mean they were easy. The classes I completed were vigorous enough to get me sweating and left me sore the next day. Most of the exercises are under 25-minutes, which makes it easy to complete them even on a busy day. Though I used the Halo View to track my workout, the tracker stats do not integrate with Halo Fitness in the Halo app. I had to glance at my watch to check my heart rate instead of seeing them on my phone’s screen.
Tone-d down creepiness Amazon raised some eyebrows with its Tone voice analysis and photo-based body fat assessment that it added to its original Halo fitness band. Though it removed Tone from the Halo View, Amazon kept the body fat measurements that require you to take a photo of yourself in your skivvies. Measuring body fat using photos may be more accurate, but not everyone is going to buy into this feature.
The same applies to Halo View’s new Movement Health which uses the camera to assess your ability to perform five simple movements. Data collected from the camera then is analyzed and used to improve your mobility, stability, and posture. Thankfully, these features are optional and turned off by default. I enabled them for testing but didn’t use them much after the initial setup. Step count, activity score, and the weekly goal were my primary motivators to keep moving.
Nutrition adds a new dimension Image used with permission by copyright holder Step count, heart rate, and sleep tracking are only half of the story. The Halo View is packed with a ton of health and wellness features that complement the fitness metrics gathered from the band’s onboard sensors. Nutrition is one of the latest additions and it shows promise. Found in the Halo app, the nutrition section includes individual recipes for a single meal as well as long-term eating programs that will help you build healthy eating habits over time. I signed up for the “Drink a glass of water before each meal” and appreciated the daily reminders that encouraged me to improve my hydration one day at a time. In the future, Amazon plans to offer meal planning guides and shopping lists that will sync to Alexa.
Affordable monthly membership Amazon nailed the membership options on the Halo View. Some companies cripple their devices for non-subscribers, but Amazon provides you with the basic metrics like steps, heart rate, and sleep times for free. You don’t need to purchase this extra subscription to use the minimal fitness-tracking features of the device.
Those who want advanced metrics, like daily activity scores or personalized insights, can sign up for a Halo membership. Amazon priced its membership at an affordable $3.99 per month. The View does ship with 12 months free subscription to Halo membership, so you don’t have to incur this fee right away.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Our take The Halo View is a terrific value for those who want an affordable alternative to the pricier trackers from Fitbit and Garmin. It delivers more than enough metrics and wellness features to appease most users. The Halo View may not have enough bells and whistles to lure people away from Fitbit or Garmin, but it is a great starting point for those new to fitness tracking.
Is there a better alternative? The Halo is an outstanding entry-level fitness attacker, but there are better alternatives. With sleek, rounded lines and a beautiful AMOLED display, the Charge 5 is a worthy competitor to the Halo View. With an MSRP of $129, the Charge 5 is more expensive, but it does offer the distance and pace metrics not present on the Halo View. Another option is the Vivosmart 4 from Garmin, which has a polished design and plenty of smart features to keep you both connected and healthy.
How long will it last? Amazon Halo View is a budget fitness tracker, so don’t expect it to last five years. Most people will enjoy a few years of usage with the Halo View under normal usage. Adventure athletes or those who work with their hands, like mechanics or carpenters, may find the View too delicate for their rough lifestyle.
Should you buy it? Absolutely. With fitness tracking, sleep tracking, nutrition, and access to trainer-led workouts, the Halo View is ideal for someone who wants a fitness tracker but doesn’t want to spend a lot of money.
Editors' Recommendations The future of Fitbit doesn’t look good The Fitbit Charge 6 is a fitness tracker and smartwatch hybrid The best fitness trackers in 2023: 12 best ones you can buy Best Prime Day Fitbit Deals for October 2022 Fitbit Versa 4 vs. Fitbit Sense 2: Which new Fitbit wins? Health & Fitness Wearables Amazon Fitness Tracker Reviews Health & Fitness Product Reviews Wearable Reviews Wearables Mobile Your Oura Ring smart ring now connects to Strava, one of the most popular fitness and sports-focused social networks. It’s the first partnership of its kind for Oura, which until now has only connected with Apple Health and Google Fit, and continues the smart ring’s push to become more attractive to fitness enthusiasts.
Oura Product Manager Brian Gilan said: Mobile Fitbit has been helping people track their sleep information for over ten years. Now, the company's latest Fitbit Premium feature, Sleep Profile, will provide personalized data to improve sleep quality across the board. Previously, Fitbits were able to track nightly patterns such as sleep duration, restfulness, and REM sleep. While that information can be helpful for understanding a person's sleeping habits, Sleep Profile will up the ante by tracking even more data points and, perhaps more importantly, will help users understand how to interpret the data.
In addition to sleep duration, restfulness, and REM sleep, your Fitbit can now track sleep schedule variability, your time before sound sleep, and disrupted sleep. Users will have access to the individual data points after each night but won't receive any interpretation of the information until the end of each month. Sleep Profile will then analyze the data, compare it to other users, and give a full report on your sleep patterns.
Mobile The Fitbit Luxe launched in July 2021 and was reviewed by our smart home editor, John Velasco, as a beautifully designed and modestly sized fitness tracker. It has now received two major updates bringing new features to the table.
Version 1.151.16 has added SpO2 measurements that allow users to track their blood oxygen saturation levels when asleep. SpO2 tracking is currently available in devices such as the Fitbit Charge 4, Charge 5, Fitbit Versa 2, and the Fitbit Versa 3, so it's nice to see it roll out to other devices in Fitbit's lineup. To use the function, check the SpO2 tile on the watch face or the Health metrics tab on the mobile app. Additionally, Fitbit has published a detailed manual on tracking Sp02 levels with this model.
The second major update enables always-on-display functionality. As the name suggests, users no longer need to wake up their Luxe trackers to check the time or their workout tracking data. To use the feature, it's essential to enable the updated display functionality in Settings. You'll be warned that the feature can increase battery drain, so keep that in mind if runtime is important to you.
The new Fitbit Luxe Fitbit Apart from these two updates, there are several smaller ones. A bigger font size has been added to the trackers' screen, along with a series of bug fixes and patches. These updates are being rolled out on an incremental basis and may take some time to reach particular regions. To check if an update is available for the device, you should be able to see a pink banner when you log into the Fitbit App, and you'll be notified of further updates once they're available.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
