Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Phones Best Tablets Tesla Phone Download Android 14 Best Android Phones Home Mobile Reviews Honor Band 6 review: Exactly what a fitness tracker should be By Andy Boxall Close $49.00 Compact and lightweight Excellent sleep tracking Useful smartwatch-like notifications Very reasonably priced Import-only in the U.S.
No always-on screen It’s probably best not to think of the Honor Band 6 as a simple fitness tracker, as it does more than count your steps, but for a lot less money than a smartwatch. All the sensors and health tracking tech you expect is inside, plus Honor has added in some smartwatch-like functionality, just as it did on the Honor Watch ES. Does this make the Honor Band 6 a desirable hybrid device, or is it a messy amalgamation that doesn’t really know what it’s supposed to be? I’ve found out.
Design Using the Honor Band 6 Health features Battery life Price and availability Our take Design The Honor Band 6 is shaped like the Honor Watch ES , just smaller and less complicated, and that makes it just about right. The plastic body of the Honor Band 6 has a 1.47-inch touchscreen on the front, a single button on the right-hand side, and some Honor branding on the left-hand side. It’s chunkier than the Samsung Galaxy Fit 2 , but as it’s very lightweight, it’s never bothersome on your wrist. Despite the higher 11mm profile, I’ve worn it with shirts and overnight without a problem, and there are plenty of holes in the fixed strap to make adjustment simple.
Andy Boxall/Digital Trends There are three colors available — black, gray, and pink — but the incognito black or gray suit it best. It’s not particularly stylish, but because it’s not trying too hard, it’s not offensive to the eye. Throughout my time wearing it, I’ve not wanted to hide it under my sleeve out of embarrassment, but I’ve not wanted to show it off either. Most of the time I’ve forgotten it’s there until it reminds me in some way.
The best Samsung Galaxy Watch 6 bands: 15 best ones in 2023 Will your old Apple Watch bands fit the Apple Watch Ultra? Is the Pixel 6a waterproof? What you should know before getting it wet The small, simple body is closer to a traditional fitness tracker, and all the better for it.
It may not sound like it, but this is a compliment. Honor’s decision to bring the Band 6 closer to the smartwatch and further away from a basic fitness band was a risky one. The design can quickly become overwhelmed, and end up not serving anyone very well. That’s what happened to the Watch ES, but the Band 6’s small, simple body is closer to a traditional fitness tracker, and all the better for it.
Andy Boxall/Digital Trends The screen is a winner. The 194 x 368 pixel resolution makes it sharp enough to comfortably view and read, the thin bezels keep it from looking cheap, and it’s very responsive and easy to press due to the well-judged size. Unfortunately, there’s no always-on screen available, so you have to either press the button or screen to wake it up, or raise your wrist. The gesture recognition is quick and accurate, but it’s annoying that the screen doesn’t automatically wake up to show notifications when they arrive.
Using the Honor Band 6 The Honor Band 6 gets hybrid fitness tracker design right, but what about the functionality? With its large screen, the Honor Band 6 includes more smartwatch functionality than you may expect at this price. I’ve had it connected to an Apple iPhone 12 Pro with the Huawei Health app, and it has proven reliable at showing notifications, although there is no way to interact with them. The text shown is clear and extensive, however. It offers a host of common features including the weather, a stopwatch, timer, and the ability to ping your phone if it gets mislaid.
Andy Boxall/Digital Trends The focus remains on fitness. It’s not drastically different from Honor fitness bands I’ve tried before, but this isn’t a negative. There are 10 different workout modes — including running, walking, cycling, swimming, rowing, and elliptical, plus a free workout mode — for use inside and out, which covers all the most common bases. However, the list looks anemic next to fitness products from Amazfit , which often boast more than 100 different workout modes. The question is, how often do you go rock climbing, surfing, or kayaking? If the answer is never, the Honor Band 6’s 10 modes will probably be quite enough.
The Band 6 will automatically detect workouts, or they can be started manually in a very short amount of time. The menu is navigated using swipes and taps, while the physical button on the side of the case works as a home and back button. It’s smooth and fast, and I’ve had no problem with controlling the Honor Band 6 on my wrist.
Previous Next 1 5 Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Data-rich workout records are shown on the watch. Distance, pace, speed, cadence, steps, stride, and heart rate are all recorded during a walk, and presented in an easy-to-read format. Annoyingly, these records didn’t always easily sync with Huawei Health on my iPhone, which made it difficult to build up historical trends.
Health features In addition to normal fitness tracking, the Honor Band 6 measures heart rate, blood oxygen levels (SPO2), and stress. It also tracks sleep, and has a breathing exercise app. You can opt to have constant heart rate and stress monitoring, but the SPO2 readings must be taken manually. How do the Honor Band 6’s results compare with the Apple Watch Series 6 ? Andy Boxall/Digital Trends I recorded a 55-minute workout with both. The Honor Band 6 claimed I took 3,058 steps and burned 417 kilocalories, with a 120bpm average heart rate. The Apple Watch showed I took 5,738 steps and burned 380kcal, with a 122bpm average heart rate. Throughout my use, the Honor Band 6 has underestimated step count compared to the Apple Watch. The difference is considerable, but may not affect overall health stats as the heart rate and calorie burn are very similar.
Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Blood oxygen measurements are taken quickly and the results were consistent with those taken by the Apple Watch. The feature’s usefulness outside of sleep tracking or when you’re out mountain climbing are questionable, but it’s always good to have more health-related data to pick up any variations which may be concerning. The Honor Band 6 also features a menstrual cycle tracker.
Sleep tracking is excellent, and Huawei’s TruSleep is one of the best systems I’ve used. The automatic sleep recognition is very accurate, correctly judging my sleep and wake-up times most days, including when I don’t immediately get out of bed. The data provided is in-depth — duration, stages, and breathing — and it also assigns a Sleep Score, with guidance on how to improve your sleep patterns.
Previous Next 1 3 Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Andy Boxall/Digital Trends The combination of all these stats helps build up a comprehensive picture of your overall health, all for minimal financial outlay, and the Huawei Health app shows all the data collected in a clear and concise way.The Huawei Health app is available for iOS and Android. Set up and syncing is simple, and the app does provide plenty of information, plus ways to customize the watch with different watch faces.
Battery life Honor claims the Band 6’s battery will last for 14 days before needing a recharge, but this is either optimistic or based on when every feature is turned off. During my time with it, the battery has dropped around 10% each day if I use the heart rate and stress monitoring, as well as track my sleep. Add in a workout every other day, and you’ll get 10 days maximum from a charge. This is still decent, but not what Honor says it will be.
Price and availability The Honor Band 6 is available to buy in the U.K. for 45 British pounds/$62 U.S. through Amazon. Although Honor indicated the Band 6 would be coming to the U.S.
through its own online store, this hasn’t happened yet, so U.S. buyers will need to use an import service. It’s $52 through AliExpress , for example.
Our take I’ve found the Honor Band 6 very easy to live with, and its comprehensive range of features useful. Crucially, it doesn’t overwhelm with pointless features like the personal trainer on the Watch ES, or a chunky design. It retains the simplicity of a normal fitness tracker, while integrating an attractive screen and simple but helpful smartwatch-style functionality. Trying to be everything to everyone doesn’t usually make a good product, and the Honor Band 6 gets the mix right.
It has just the right level of complexity when it comes to health tracking, with easy-to-use features (several of which are automated), and enough sensors to provide an informative overview of your daily health. It’s not going to satisfy the hardcore athlete, but it’s more than enough for regular people. This is the Honor Band 6’s strength — it does what a good fitness tracker should do without getting muddled up with features that don’t matter at this price.
Honor hasn’t bumped the price up to over $100 either, where smartwatches that look like watches begin to appear. Instead, it’s the type of fitness tracker you should be buying instead of those mostly awful cheap smartwatches found on Amazon. It’s a different world in terms of build, polish, and performance from them. Only availability blights the Honor Band 6, but if you’re prepared to put in the effort, it’s definitely worth it.
Is there a better alternative? The Honor Band 6 is very well -priced, and it’s hard to find a competing fitness tracker with the same features at the same price. The $50 Samsung Galaxy Fit 2 is our budget fitness tracker pick.
 It’s not as feature-rich as the Honor Band 6, but it is more readily available.
Outside the U.S., the Xiaomi Mi Band 6 will likely be its biggest competitor, as it provides very similar functionality, and while the final price has yet to be confirmed, it’ll likely cost around the same as the Honor Band 6.
How long will it last? The plastic case, strong silicone strap, and 5ATM water resistance means the Honor Band 6 isn’t going to break in a hurry, so even if it does get some rough treatment, it should prove durable. Provided the software is kept up to date, and the Huawei Health app is supported, the Honor Band 6 will last for years.
Should you buy it? Yes. The Honor Band 6 is a well-priced, feature-packed fitness tracker that also manages to squeeze in some helpful smartwatch-like functionality.
Editors' Recommendations The Fitbit Charge 6 is a fitness tracker and smartwatch hybrid Do Pixel 6 cases fit the Pixel 7? Here’s what you need to know 5G Nationwide vs. 5G Ultra Wideband: What’s different (and why you should care) What is low-band 5G? Sub-6 explained What is C-Band? Mid-range 5G explained Health & Fitness Wearables Fitness Tracker Reviews Product Reviews Wearable Reviews Mobile Verizon has finally flicked the switch that allows the Google Pixel 6 and Pixel 6 Pro to latch on to its C-Band 5G network. In January this year, Verizon and AT&T began the deployment of their respective 5G networks on the C-Band spectrum. However, the Pixel 6 series phones haven’t yet been able to take advantage of the faster C-Band 5G airwaves.
That’s because both the phones come equipped with the necessary networking hardware to support the C-Band spectrum, but they hadn’t received an official certification yet. Verizon’s George Koroneos has now shared on Twitter that both the phones have passed the certification hurdle. And starting today, the carrier has started rolling out a firmware update for the Pixel 6 duo that enables C-Band 5G support on Google’s flagships.
Faster and more feature-rich The software update (version SP2A.220305.013.A3) arrives with the delayed March security patch for the Pixel 6 series phones in tow. The update also brings some new Pixel features to the Pixel 6 pair such as Night Sight in the Snap camera, Live Relay for captioning calls in real time, and a battery information widget, among others. For more details, check out the complete changelog for Pixel 6's March feature drop. Keep in mind that the C-Band 5G network will only be available to customers on an Unlimited plan with 5G Ultra Wideband in the list of perks.
Mobile The Google Pixel 6 has been revealed at the Pixel Fall Launch, along with its larger sibling, the Pixel 6 Pro. These new phones debut an entirely new Google-made processor, the Google Tensor, which is claimed to supercharge the A.I. capabilities of the phone, as well as sport a unique design featuring the new "camera bar" visor-shaped module on the back of the phone. The Pixel 6 is the cheaper of the two, costing just $599, and despite losing the 120Hz display and third camera lens of the Pixel 6 Pro, it looks set to be a serious bargain.
Pixel-heads are likely salivating at the chance to grab the new Google phone, but what if you're already using a Pixel 5? Is it worth upgrading from last year's Pixel to this year's? The Pixel 5 is still a strong contender this year, so is the Pixel 6 good enough to justify the extra cost? We took a look to find out.
Specs Mobile It's already generating headlines in the world of technology, but what is 6G, and when will you be able to get it? Right now, 5G is (just about) here. You can buy a 5G smartphone, and enjoy all the benefits of a 5G data connection today. However, technology never stops, and there is already talk about the next step in the world of mobile connectivity.
There’s a growing amount of 6G information out there, and much of it is built around just a few reports and studies. Let’s clear some things up about 6G, and find out what the state of this future tech really is.
Is 6G real? Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
