Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Phones Best Tablets Tesla Phone Download Android 14 Best Android Phones Home Mobile Reviews Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Oppo Band review: Oppo’s first fitness wearable fails to captivate By Andy Boxall Close Heart rate and blood oxygen tracking Accuracy doesn't match other devices No auto screen brightness The Oppo Band is the first fitness tracker from Oppo, a company better known for its smartphones like the Find X3 Pro than wearables, although it has recently gained attention in this area with the Apple Watch-like Oppo Watch.
 Given that the basic fitness tracker is such an established piece of tech these days, the question becomes what can Oppo bring to the genre to make its maiden effort stand out? The answer, unfortunately, is not very much.
Design Health tracking Software Battery Price and availability Our take Design The Oppo Band has a 40mm main body attached to a thick rubber strap secured with a plastic pin. You need to pop the sensor out from the strap when it needs a charge, which reveals a plastic surround piece, like a bezel, on the strap itself, giving it a classier, more cohesive look than old Xiaomi Mi Band models that used the same charging method. It’s the only design element that separates the Oppo Band from the majority of its competitors.
Andy Boxall/Digital Trends There are plenty of holes in the strap so it’s suitable for most wrist sizes, although it was difficult for me to get the fit exactly right, as it was either slightly too loose or slightly too tight. This will vary from person to person, of course. I have been wearing the Oppo Band 24-hours a day and haven’t noticed any skin irritation, but it does get a little hot wearing it at night.
The Oppo Find N will be among the first foldables to try Android 13 Beta 1 Oppo Find N renders show off Oppo’s first foldable from all angles Oppo’s first foldable smartphone’s launch date leaked What I did find is that the plastic bezel surrounding the module on the strap gets easily scuffed, and has picked up a few little nicks after only a short time wearing it. I’ve not climbed any mountains, or really put it through any activities that could be described as “tough,” so if you do partake in pursuits where things get damaged, the Oppo Band may not stay looking its best for long.
Andy Boxall/Digital Trends The AMOLED screen measures 1.1-inches and is very colorful, but it does not have an automatic brightness adjustment, leaving you to choose the right setting for you. On the default 20% setting, it cannot be seen in sunlight and requires raising to 80% ideally, which has an impact on battery life.
Health tracking On the back of the Oppo Band’s main module is an optical heart rate sensor and blood oxygen (SPo2) sensor, while inside is a 3-axis gyroscope. It does not have built-in GPS, or an electrocardiogram, which you’d likely find on more expensive fitness-tracking wearables. It tracks a selection of activities including indoor and outdoor walks, runs, and cycling, plus swimming (it has a water resistance rating of 5ATM), yoga, cricket, and several others. Sleep tracking is also an option.
Previous Next 1 4 Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Andy Boxall/Digital Trends It connects to the HeyTap app, which I used on an iPhone 12 Pro throughout my review. The app includes settings and adjustments for the band itself, along with historical activity data. The daily calendar view is relatively basic, with daily overviews showing step count, workout time, calorie burn, and hours active. To see individual workout sessions, you have to select a different option, where a real-time heart rate graph is included. It is a little confusing at first when trying to find these different sections.
The Oppo Band’s accuracy isn’t as good as that of many other fitness wearables.
Sleep tracking breaks down sleep stages, assigns a sleep score, and uses the SPo2 sensor to provide a breathing analysis. Oppo gives a little information on where you need to improve, but nothing you won’t find on any other fitness tracker. All the data is presented simply and clearly, but without much depth to it. The Oppo Band is suitable for people interested in understanding more about their health and tracking regular workouts, but it doesn’t present in-depth data and advice for anyone more seriously into fitness or a particular sport.
Previous Next 1 3 Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Andy Boxall/Digital Trends The Oppo Band’s accuracy isn’t as good as that of many other fitness wearables. At nigh,t the SPo2 sensor frequently showed sudden, dramatic drops not registered by other models, or recorded by the Withings Sleep Analyzer. Step count was also usually considerably lower than other wearables. On a single day wearing it, the Xiaomi Mi Band 6 , and the Honor Band 6 , it recorded 4148 steps while the Mi Band 6 showed 5645 and the Honor Band 6 had 5565. On another occasion when testing it against the Fitbit Versa 3 , it showed 225 steps to the Versa 3’s 467. When comparing the heart rate sensor, the Oppo Band’s results were consistent with other wearables.
Software Oppo’s software is a simple swipe-and-tap affair, with either an up or down swipe to scroll through the menu, and a left to right swipe to change the watch face. This is an unusual choice and quite frustrating. I almost never want to change a watch face once one has been selected, making this gesture feel like a waste. It would have been preferable for it to show notifications, or to quickly access workout tracking.
Previous Next 1 4 Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Andy Boxall/Digital Trends The screen is very responsive — sometimes it’s a little too quick to react, which can result in errors — but the software is quite long-winded, and performing most functions takes longer than it really should. Want to start a workout? Tap the screen to wake it up, swipe up twice, tap again, select a workout, and tap again. Again, these actions would be minimized with a more sensibly designed gesture control system.
Notifications are reliable and although they can’t be interacted with, text is clear and formatted properly. Music can be controlled from the Oppo Band but not stored, and there are a few other simple features like a stopwatch, a weather screen (but only if you give it access to your location all the time), and a phone finder.
Battery Fully charging the Oppo Band’s battery takes about an hour, and although Oppo claims it’ll last 12 days, this very much depends on the features you use.
Andy Boxall/Digital Trends With the screen at a higher brightness and sleep tracking, heart rate monitoring, and notifications turned on, the battery lasted me eight days before I needed to charge it again. It would have lasted nine if I’d have let it go flat.
Price and availability The Oppo Band is available now in the U.K. and costs 40 British pounds, or about $56, from Oppo and Amazon.
 It hasn’t been officially released in the U.S., although imports will be available from outlets like Amazon and AliExpress. If you choose to get one this way, make sure it’s the “global” version, as the Oppo Band has previously been available in China, and functionality may be different from the U.K./global model.
Our take Oppo’s entering a very crowded space with the Oppo Band. There are multiple low-cost fitness trackers out there, and while it’s perfectly acceptable in terms of design and software, the accuracy concerns are less acceptable, the battery life isn’t better than its rivals, and the accompanying app doesn’t have enough in-depth features to appeal to serious fitness fans. The Oppo Band fails to stand out.
Is there a better alternative? Yes. The Honor Band 6 can be purchased for around the same price and has better smartwatch-style functionality, more style, and a lovely screen. The Xiaomi Mi Band 6 is even cheaper than the Oppo Band and performs all the same functions. The Samsung Galaxy Fit 2 is a little more expensive but more readily available, and although it doesn’t have quite the same level of functionality, it’s more than enough for the casual exerciser. If you are happy to spend more, we recommend getting the Fitbit Charge 4 , which benefits from a better app experience, rich data, and good battery life.
How long will it last? Apart from the easily scratched plastic bezel around the main module, the thick rubber strap feels strong, and the whole thing is water resistant to 5ATM. No software update for the Oppo Band has arrived during the time I’ve had it, which I hoped would have come along to fix the accuracy issues. If you’re happy to accept that it may be providing data that’s different from other models, the Oppo Band’s general functionality means it will last for several years providing your own use doesn’t alter.
Should you buy it? No, there are better, more accurate fitness trackers available.
Editors' Recommendations Will your old Apple Watch bands fit the Apple Watch Ultra? Oppo’s Find N is the first folding phone to really take on Samsung Oppo Find N, the first foldable phone from Oppo, is ready for prime time OnePlus launches its first wearable, but it’s not a smartwatch The Oppo Watch is very good, but it also makes me very angry Wearables Fitness Tracker Reviews Product Reviews Wearable Reviews Wearables Mobile The Oppo Reno4 Pro 5G has all the exact right technical ingredients to make a smartphone that’s desirable and exciting, and in several cases suitably different from the competition. I’ve been using it for a couple of days and have enjoyed doing so too, but then I couldn't ignore the ingredient that’s not so good for long: The high price.
The midrange smartphone market is hyper-competitive this year, and while we applaud devices that offer more value than ever before, it’s still very price-sensitive. The Oppo Reno4 Pro’s 699 British pound price, which is $898 converted over, means this otherwise good phone is a hard sell. Let’s look at it in more detail.
Design What’s most striking is the Reno4 Pro 5G’s size and weight. It’s just 7.6mm thick and 176 grams, which feels positively feather-like in today’s world, with phones regularly tipping the scales at more than 200 grams. It’s sleek and slim, slips in your pocket and bag without a fuss, and is supremely comfortable to hold and use.
Mobile Oppo makes great hardware, but the company's software often leaves a lot to be desired. I’ve bemoaned it for a while, and I was often glad to swap the SIM out of an Oppo review phone once I was done evaluating it. Oppo has heard this criticism, and it’s changing course. Color OS 7, its latest user interface built on Android 10, looks promising, and the new Reno 3 Pro is the first Oppo phone I’ve used with it on board.
Here’s why it’s a serious improvement over previous Oppo software.
Color OS 7 is much improved At first glance, the differences between Color OS 6 and Color OS 7 are subtle. It’s only when you start using the software that the improvements become obvious. It’s cleaner, more minimalist, and less needlessly colorful. It's more spacious, creating a modern, pleasant interface that works well but has just enough character to look sleek.
Mobile Wrapped in bright orange vegan leather, the Oppo Find X2 Pro is among the most eye-catching, tactile phones of 2020. More importantly, it looks like the Find X2 Pro is Oppo’s most well-rounded phone package to date.
The newly announced Find X2 Pro provides sensory overload out of the box, but what about the rest of the phone? Following the virtual launch event in London, I spent a short time with the Find X2 Pro to see if it lives up to the expectations generated by its fantastic appearance.
Smooth, posh design While it’s a departure from the futuristic Oppo Find X, which had a form factor unlike anything before it, the Find X2 Pro is still a very attractive phone, reminding me of the 2019 Huawei P30 Pro; the curved screen, the off-center camera bump on the back, and even the vegan leather option itself is borrowed from it. This makes it pretty, well-balanced in terms of design, and comfortable to hold, but it does make it slightly derivative, especially placed alongside its unique predecessor.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
