Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Phones Best Tablets Tesla Phone Download Android 14 Best Android Phones Home Mobile Reviews Samsung Galaxy Fit 2 Review: Simple, honest, and good value By Andy Boxall Close $60.00 Comfortable and lightweight Simple to use Comprehensive list of activities to track Good notification support Battery life claims are overblown Strap clasp is annoying Some tracking inaccuracies Not everyone cares about high-end activity-tracking features on a lot of smartwatches or expensive fitness bands. Some really won’t worry about blood oxygen levels, ECG measurements, or even built-in GPS. If you want simple daily activity tracking, you want a simple daily-use wearable, and that’s where the Samsung Galaxy Fit 2 comes in.
Design Activity tracking Battery life Price and availability Our take This $60 fitness tracker covers all the basics, and backs it up with a quoted 15 days of battery life, putting it firmly in the wear-and-forget category. I’ve been wearing it for more than a week now, and I did almost forget it on my wrist, which is a good thing. This is what it’s like.
Samsung Galaxy S24: news, rumored price, release date, and more Best Samsung Galaxy Z Flip 5 deals: Get the foldable for free The Samsung Galaxy S24 just leaked with a few big surprises Design The Galaxy Fit 2’s simplicity starts with the design, but it holds both good and bad surprises. The first surprise is just how bright the 1.1-inch color AMOLED screen is. I could easily leave it on the midlevel setting without sacrificing daylight viewing, meaning it has less of an impact on battery life. The use of a color screen makes the Galaxy Fit 2 far more attractive, and more interesting to look at, than the boring monochrome LCDs found on simple Fitbits.
Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Choose the red band like my review sample and it makes a seriously sporty statement, and while the band is comfortable once it’s on, the clasp is very annoying. Samsung has made the whole affair more complicated than it needs to be, and it’s quite hard to find, and repeat, exactly the right fit. I often wear the band loosely when the heart rate sensor’s accuracy isn’t so important, then tighten it up when tracking exercise, and the Fit 2’s strap made this usually simple procedure rather infuriating. Otherwise, it’s secure and doesn’t get sweaty.
Andy Boxall/Digital Trends It’s controlled using the touchscreen and a touch-sensitive button under it. It’s quite easy to miss the button at first, as the thin outline giving you a hint about where to press disappears in many lighting conditions. The operating system is responsive and logically laid out, and you use swipes and taps to navigate through the options. I didn’t experience any problems using it.
Andy Boxall/Digital Trends The design, the screen’s appeal, and the software make the Galaxy Fit easy to live with once you’ve stopped swearing at the stupid band.
Activity tracking Continuing on the simple theme, the Galaxy Fit has a heart rate sensor, an accelerometer, and a gyroscope, but no ability to measure blood oxygen, take an ECG, link up with GPS, or even add elevation data using an altimeter. The altimeter is the only sensor that’s really missed, as ECG and blood oxygen readings are highly specialized. If you want GPS for accurate run tracking, there are plenty of alternatives available.
Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Instead, the Galaxy Fit 2 watches over your workouts, tracks steps, and monitors your sleep if you wear it overnight. A small selection of workouts to track are preloaded on the Fit, but more can be added in if the basic options aren’t enough. I had to add yoga and stationary biking, for example. The Galaxy Fit 2 can be worn in the pool to track swims, where it counts strokes and measures distance, plus returns swim efficiency SWOLF data after you’ve finished.
Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Swipe to the left on the screen and you get shown steps, heart rate, distance, and sleep data. There are reminders to get up and move around, and a reminder to wash your hands too. However, this is not automatic like the Apple Watch’s feature, and instead just suggests you should wash your hands after a set interval. The Fit 2 also monitors stress levels, but says the feature is for wellness rather than medical use, and I found it put me on the higher end of the scale far more often than other wearables I’ve used recently, including the Honor Watch ES and the Oppo Watch.
Previous Next 1 4 Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Both Samsung’s Galaxy Wear and Samsung’s Health app are required to sync the Galaxy Fit 2 with your phone, and are compatible with both Android and iOS. I’ve been using them on a Samsung Galaxy Fold.
 While Health is informative — it provides current and historical data, and you can add further metrics like food intake and data from other health devices — it’s not very attractive, or always logical to navigate.
It’s nowhere near as pretty or intuitive as Google Fit, for example, and isn’t as feature-packed either. It is slightly unusual that it isn’t possible to quickly get an instant heart rate reading, although the last reading taken remains on some of the watch faces. There are masses of workout tracking plans, which means almost whatever your activity of choice is, the Galaxy Fit 2 will have it covered.
Andy Boxall/Digital Trends In terms of accuracy, I compared the Fit 2 with the Apple Watch Series 6 over a couple of days, and found the heart rate monitor was consistent with the Apple Watch’s results, but the calorie burn and step count was usually under the Apple Watch’s estimate, potentially skewing overall results. Most wearables I’ve compared to the Apple Watch in the past return very similar numbers overall, suggesting the Fit 2’s software may need refining.
Battery life Samsung makes some big claims about the battery life of the Galaxy Fit 2, but there are various caveats hidden in the small print. What you need to know is forget reaching 21 days, and don’t count on 15 days either, if you intend to use most of the band’s features.
Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Sleep tracking is one of the areas you may have to forgo to maximize battery life, and it’s worth doing so. The band is certainly light enough at 21 grams not to be bothersome, and when it works the sleep tracking shows different stages of your sleep, duration, and finally assigns a Sleep Efficiency Score. However, the sleep tracking is inconsistent and repeatedly missed my deep sleep phases entirely, making any data collected worthless.
Notifications will also drain the battery more, but this time the trade-off will be worth it. Despite the small screen size, truncated emails are readable, and WhatsApp messages and Twitter replies even have quick reply options. How many apps send notifications to the band can be managed in the Galaxy Wear app, helping you tailor the number of interruptions. I found the notifications useful, but could sometimes be frustrated by the slowness of the band to respond when I raised my arm to see them.
Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Samsung says to get close to 21 days battery life you have to make do without the sleep tracking, no heart rate sensor, and no auto workout tracking either. It says to expect about 15 days with average use. I’ve used the heart rate sensor, activity reminders, tracked regular workouts, and some sleep sessions too and it has struggled to get even close to this number. It loses around 10% battery each day without tracking any activities apart from sleep.
Price and availability The Samsung Galaxy Fit 2 costs $60, or 40 British pounds in the U.K. It’s available now on Amazon and through Samsung’s own online store.
Our take The Galaxy Fit 2 doesn’t pretend to be the ideal partner for your marathon efforts, or that it’ll be there delivering focused data throughout a bid for Olympic glory. Instead, it covers what most casual exercisers will want from swimming to cycling and horse riding to yachting, is honest about its ability, and has the right degree of complexity to keep you honest in your fitness endeavors.
This all-around general nature and affordability don’t forgive the inconsistencies in sleep and exercise tracking though, and the very long battery life is only possible if you decide not to use many of the band’s features. Outside of this, the Galaxy Fit 2 is easy to live with, and its downsides didn’t stop me from wanting to wear it, and that’s essential for a fitness band.
Is there a better alternative? Yes, the fitness band market is huge so there are many great alternatives.
 While I think the Galaxy Fit 2 is one of the better models available, it does have some strong competition. If a Fitbit appeals more, due to the recognizable brand name and established platform, the Inspire 2 is the closest model to the Galaxy Fit 2, but it will cost you $100, plus Fitbit has a monthly subscription charge to unlock some of its more advanced features. If you want a Fitbit with GPS, we recommend the Fitbit Charge 4.
If you live outside the U.S., or are happy to import, the Xiaomi Mi Band 5 is excellent value at around 40 British pounds, as is the Honor Band 5 which can be found for even less. If you don’t need specific fitness tracking features like GPS and aren’t a dedicated athlete, why spend more than you have to on a simple fitness band? If you don’t mind spending more, and want something that looks less like a regular fitness band, there are also a couple of smartwatch-like alternatives. The Amazfit GTR 2 costs $179, looks great, and has plenty of fitness tracking features to use, while the Honor Watch ES costs 89 British pounds, or about $120, and occupies the middle ground between smartwatch and fitness band.
How long will it last? Fitness bands will last longer than your smartphone or a smartwatch, because we don’t make such hefty demands on the software or hardware. The Galaxy Fit 2’s strong band can be replaced if it should break, and everything is water-resistant to 50 meters, so it’s suitable for use when swimming or in the shower.
Outside of any discontinuation of Galaxy Fit 2 support in Galaxy Wear or Samsung Health app, it will last you way beyond three years. There’s one other thing to think about, and that’s your ongoing use. The Galaxy Fit 2 isn’t really suitable for hardcore fitness enthusiasts, so expect to upgrade if your own fitness goals and tracking need change.
Should you buy it? Yes, provided you only want to cover the basics in activity tracking, it’s a usable, simple, and attractive fitness band. Want to know more about Samsung products? Check out our review on Samsung Galaxy S21.
Editors' Recommendations The best Samsung Galaxy S23 Plus cases: 21 you can’t ignore Best Samsung Galaxy Z Fold 5 deals: How to get the phone for free Best Samsung Galaxy S23 Ultra deals: How to get the phone for free Best Samsung Galaxy Z Fold 4 deals: Save big on the foldable Best Samsung Galaxy S22 deals: Save big on unlocked models Health & Fitness Wearables Fitness Tracker Reviews Product Reviews Samsung Wearable Reviews Wearables Mobile Samsung is one of the most recognizable names in modern smartphones. It has a well-deserved reputation for offering an expansive lineup of great phones with something for just about everyone. This means if you're looking for an Android phone, you'll easily find a Samsung model that's worth considering based on your needs and budget. In fact, the number of choices can be a bit overwhelming, but the good news is that we've explored the entire range and highlighted the best Samsung smartphones you can buy in 2023.
Like its predecessor, the Samsung Galaxy S23 Ultra gets the nod for the best overall Samsung phone, and that's not just because it's Samsung's premium flagship device. Sure, it's the most expensive phone in the lineup, but you're getting some incredible bang for your buck with its large and gorgeous display, excellent cameras, and a new processor that offers unprecedented levels of performance. And if you're looking for something more unique, more pocketable, or more affordable, you'll find a lot of other great options on our list in every category, with links to detailed reviews for each.
Mobile If you’re in search of a new tablet, Samsung’s Galaxy Tab lineup has a lot to offer. It regularly places models amongst the best tablets and it’s up there with Apple’s iPad lineup when it comes to popularity. Right now a new Samsung Galaxy Tab even offers some savings, as there’s several seeing a discount right now. Whether you’re looking for a tablet to create with, do homework with, or be entertained with, these are the best Samsung Galaxy Tab deals to choose from right now.
Samsung Galaxy Tab A7 Lite (32GB) — $130, was $160 A good entry-level Samsung Galaxy option is the Galaxy Tab A7 Lite. It starts at a reasonable price, but doesn’t hold back much when it comes to specs and capability. This model comes with 3GB of system RAM and 32GB of storage capacity. If you’re just looking for access to the internet, email, and some apps, this should be plenty for you. This is also a good option if you’re looking for one of the best tablets for kids, as it’s made with a sturdy, rugged frame. The 8.7-inch screen is good for both entertainment and work, and its slim design makes it an easy choice if portability is a factor.
Mobile Samsung has launched the next iteration of its smartwatches, the Galaxy Watch 6 and Galaxy Watch 6 Classic. The latest and greatest Galaxy Watches ship with Wear OS 4 and have the best new features, including app folders and custom colors in One UI Watch 5.
With the Galaxy Watch 6 series, you also have advanced sleep coaching for better sleep tracking and Food and Drug Administration-certified heart rhythm notification tracking, as well as ECG measurements for irregular heart rhythms.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
