Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Windows 12 GTA 5 Cheats Wordle Today iPhone 15 Deals Upcoming Movies Nintendo Switch 2 NYT Connections Today Google Pixel 8 Pro Review Home Cars Guides Rivian R2 compact SUV: Rumored price, release date, design, and more By Christian de Looper Close The Rivian R1T electric pickup truck has been a hugely popular first release from the new automaker. Both it and its SUV brother, the R1S, are considered among the best in their class. But they’re also both relatively expensive — the entry-level R1 starts at $73,000, putting it out of reach for many would-be buyers. Rivian, however, wants to serve the masses, and to that end has been developing its next-gen, cheaper platform, called the Rivian R2.
Rivian R2 design Rivian R2 price Rivian R2 release date Rivian R2 colors and models Rivian R2 charging speed and range Rivian R2 performance Rivian R2 tech features Rivian R2 tax credit status Our Rivian R2 wish list If Rivian ends up following its current naming scheme, the company will launch multiple R2 models. For example, it could release an R2S SUV and R2T truck, both at lower price points than Rivian’s current vehicles. For now, however, the only rumored model is an R2 compact SUV — which is the vehicle we’ll be discussing here.
Interested in getting a Rivian SUV at a lower price? Here’s everything we know about the Rivian R2 so far.
Kia EV4: design, rumored pricing, release date, and more Mercedes ‘Little G’ electric G-Wagon: Rumored design, release date Rivian R1T gets estimated 410 miles of range with Dual-Motor powertrain, Max Pack battery Rivian R2 design There’s a lot we don’t yet know about the Rivian R2 compact SUV, but it’s expected to be smaller than the R1S, and may end up verging on more of a crossover size than a true SUV.
Rivian What will it look like? The company has said that the car “maintains some of that adventure aesthetic” found in the R1S. And of course, we expect it will have the same oval headlights that Rivian has already made iconic. Everything else about the design of the R2 has yet to be revealed.
Rivian R2 price The best thing about the Rivian R2 will ultimately be its price. The R2 isn’t a successor to the R1 — instead, it’s aimed at being more affordable than the R1S and R1T.
Stephen Edelstein/Digital Trends How affordable? Rivian has said that the R1 will cost from $40,000 to $60,000. It’s currently unclear if the base price will be somewhere between $40,000 and $60,000, or if it’ll start at $40,000, and range up to $60,000 depending on the trim you get and the additional options.
Regardless of the exact starting price, the lower price in general will make R2-based vehicles very appealing for those who like Rivian’s approach, but can’t afford the more expensive R1S and R1T.
Rivian R2 release date Unfortunately, it’ll be a while before we’ll be able to check out the Rivian R2 for ourselves. Rivian has said that an R2-based vehicle, which we assume will be the R2S, will be revealed in 2024, but that production won’t begin until 2026.
In other words, it’s going to be at least a few years before you start seeing the Rivian R2 on the roads — and by then, it’s likely that the EV market will be a whole lot more competitive.
Rivian R2 colors and models Rivian R1S Rivian / Rivian Rivian has not announced models and colors for the R2 just yet, though it’s likely that it’ll offer similar trim levels as R1 models.
Rivian R2 charging speed and range Because the R2 will be based on an all-new platform, we don’t yet know what to expect as far as charging speed and range. Hopefully, the R2 will offer a range of at least 300 miles or so.
The Rivian R1S and R1T can currently charge at a speed of up to 220 kilowatts, which is relatively quick, though not the fastest out there. Hopefully, R2-based cars will offer a similar speed, if not a faster one.
The Rivian R2 will most likely charge through NACS charging ports , meaning it’ll work with Tesla’s connector.
Rivian R2 performance Stephen Edelstein / Digital Trends We currently know nothing about the performance of the Rivian R2, however we expect it to be available in a single-motor or dual-motor configuration, just like its older brothers. That will also allow for an all-wheel drive model.
Rivian R2 tech features Rivian is a new company that has built itself on a high-tech approach. The company has put a lot of effort into developing easy-to-use software, and including onboard Wi-Fi, wireless charging pads, and Alexa integration. It’s likely these features will continue with the R2. We’re also expecting the software experience to be the same, which will include the lack of CarPlay and Android Auto.
Image used with permission by copyright holder There are some helpful driving tools in R1 vehicles too, including automated emergency braking, lane-departure warnings, and an adaptive cruise control. We’re expecting these to be included on the R2 as well.
Rivian R2 tax credit status Because the Rivian R2 is still a few years out, it’s hard to tell if it’ll end up qualifying for the federal EV tax credit.
 However, if current laws remain in place, it will likely qualify for the full $7,500 tax credit, considering the fact that it will most likely be manufactured in the U.S. Rivian currently builds vehicles in Normal, Illinois, and it plans to open a second factory outside Atlanta in 2024.
Our Rivian R2 wish list We’re hoping that the Rivian R2 will offer at least 300 miles of range, including in the base model. Hopefully, it’ll also be able to take advantage of the ultra-ast 350kW chargers, but that seems unlikely given the fact that the R1S and R1T cap out at 220kW.
Apart from those things, we’re hoping that the R2 will offer a similar design sensibility and tech feature set as the R1. Those are the things that have made Rivian such a compelling option. If Rivian can capture the same aesthetic as the R1, but at a lower price, the R2 is sure to be a great choice for budget-conscious adventurers.
Editors' Recommendations Kia EV5: rumored pricing, design, range, features, and more Tesla Model 3 Highland: release date, range, design update, and more Scout Motors Electric SUV: rumored price, release date, design, and more Rivian R1S vs. Kia EV9: Is the more expensive electric SUV really better? 2025 Buick Electra: rumored price, release date, range, and more Cars The budget EV market is seriously heating up. While it turns out that the Chevrolet Bolt EV isn't long for this world, there's a new low-cost electric car in town, and it's set to make more affordable electric cars a whole lot more stylish. The Volvo EX30 "small SUV" has yet to be released to the public, but already many EV shoppers are considering it for their next car, considering its low price, solid range, and stylish design.
Curious about the Volvo EX30? We've been keeping an eye on the EX30's announcements and release, and can't wait for it either. Here's everything we know about the Volvo EX30 so far.
Volvo EX30 price Cars First introduced in 2019, the Tesla Cybertruck is unlike any pickup we've ever seen. It's electric, which isn't entirely unusual, and frankly expected from Tesla, but its futuristic design makes it stand out from everything else on the road. Whether that's a good or a bad thing is a matter of personal preference, and keep in mind we haven't seen the final, production-bound version yet. Tesla often makes tweaks to its cars before production, however, we may not have to wait long -- as Tesla says the truck will finally start shipping later this year.
In the meantime, we're taking a look at what it is, what it does, how much it will cost, and when cyber motorists will have the opportunity to get behind the wheel. We're looking at its rivals, too, and the list grows on a regular basis.
Design Cars Rivian successfully launched production of the R1T, its first model, in a former Mitsubishi factory located in Normal, Illinois. Digital Trends drove the electric truck in September 2021 and loved it, but a new report suggests it will take some time before many buyers can do the same.
Several members of the Rivian Forums wrote that a representative for the young company had reached out to inform them of delivery delays. One said that his estimated delivery date was pushed back from October 2021 to February 2022; he added that the Guide the company assigned him blamed the setback on supply chain-related issues. Another user who claims to have placed a reservation for the R1T in February 2019 also wrote that Rivian moved the estimated delivery date from October 2021 to February 2022. Interestingly, that customer added that the Guide blamed the delay on quality control-related issues, though problems with the supply chain were also partly to blame.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
