Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Phones Best Tablets Tesla Phone Download Android 14 Best Android Phones Home Mobile Reviews Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Withings BPM Core Review: Two out of three is just OK By Kelly Hodgkins Close $250.00 Reliable blood pressure measurements Useful ECG analysis Long battery life Solid Construction Digital stethoscope fails to record heart sounds Stiff cuff is difficult to adjust Expensive Withings wants to revolutionize the at-home health industry with wireless scales to track your weight, smart pads that measure your sleep, and app-connected thermometers to take your temperature. Now the company is tackling the exploding market for at-home blood pressure monitors with the $250 Withings BMP Core.
 The Core has a relatively hefty price tag, but there’s a reason for that. It’s the world’s first blood pressure monitor with an onboard electrocardiogram (ECG) and digital stethoscope.
Powerful tools in a polished package A performance hit and a miss Go months without charging Pricing, Availability and Warranty information Our Take Being a do-it-all device is tough, and though the Core nails two out of three, that last one is a bugger for Withings.
Powerful tools in a polished package Withings tries to cover all the bases with the BPM Core. It includes a wireless blood pressure monitor to detect hypertension, a three-lead ECG for atrial fibrillation, and a digital stethoscope to detect valvular heart diseases. All of these tools are packaged into a relatively small and stylish device that rolls up to about the size of a small nerf football. It fits easily in a backpack or duffel bag, but it’s a bit too big for a purse or messenger bag.
Similar to the BPM Connect, the Withings BPM Core doesn’t look like a medical device. It has a stiff grey cuff with a white and silver cylinder that houses the blood pressure monitor, one lead of the ECG, and the display. There’s also a digital stethoscope on the side, which is designed to fit against the rib cage while performing an ECG. The display is a dot-matrix style LED that displays information one line at a time. I much prefer larger display panels that show all your information at once, but that’s the price you pay for a compact device.
Kelly Hodgkins / Digital Trends The BPM Core is challenging to use. The blood pressure cuff is molded to fit your arm, and it was a bit too big for my small arms. I had to fight a bit with the cuff to get a snug fit. I also had to be careful not to wrap the cuff all the way around as that would block the digital stethoscope. Your mileage may vary.
Speaking of the digital stethoscope, you have to position it flat against your ribs or else it will not record your heartbeat. Withings counsels you to rest and relax for five minutes before taking a reading, but after fighting with the cuff and worrying about positioning the stethoscope, I felt like my rest period was completely ruined.
A performance hit and a miss The Withings BPM Core is unique in that it measure three metrics in one session. The unit begins with your blood pressure and then simultaneously measures your ECG and heartbeat sounds. When it comes to measuring your blood pressure, the Withings BPM Core delivers. The device matched my at-home blood pressure monitor as well as the one at the doctor’s office.
Kelly Hodgkins / Digital Trends The ECG also worked reliably as long as my heart rate was above 50 beats per minute. I have a low resting heart rate (45-50bpm), which often produced an inconclusive result. This is something we’ve seen on devices like the Apple Watch , which can’t conclusively test for ailments like atrial fibrillation on heart rates lower than 50bpm. When my heart rate was up a bit, each scan I performed was graded as normal since I have no underlying heart condition. If I have any concerns with my inconclusive results, I can send the reading along to my doctor in a few quick steps.
Unfortunately, the Core couldn’t measure everything quite so accurately. In fact, the digital stethoscope failed — a lot. Of the 50 or so readings I took, I was only able to accurately record my heartbeat a handful of times. It would record the heartbeat each session, but the unit would not be able to analyze the recording. I tried measuring my heartbeat in a quiet room to minimize background noise; that didn’t work. I tried it while wearing a lightweight t-shirt to minimize interference — still failed.
The digital stethoscope failed — a lot.
I even lifted up my shirt to give the stethoscope skin contact and it still didn’t work consistently. In the end, I positioned myself best as I could to do the heartbeat recording, but I gave up hope that I’d record any meaningful data.
Go months without charging The Withings Core is powered by a USB rechargeable battery rated for six months of battery life. Even with multiple blood pressure and ECG readings a day, I only charged the battery once and that was when I first received the device.
I am more than two months in and still working off that first charge.
Pricing, Availability and Warranty information The $250 Withings BPM Core is still awaiting approval by the FDA and is not yet available in the U.S., but can be purchased in Europe from Withings’ website.
The company offers a one-year limited warranty on its digital health products.
Our Take The Withings BPM Core accurately measures blood pressure and ECG, but it stumbles when recording heart sound, rendering it nearly useless. Because of this shortcoming, it’s not worth its $250 price tag.
Is there a better alternative? If ECG isn’t of particular importance to you, the $100 Withings BPM Connect lacks ECG capability but accurately records blood pressure and measures your heart rate, storing all this data for future analysis as the BPM Core does.
Another solid choice is the $55 Omron 10 blood pressure monitor which sends your data wirelessly to you smartphone or tablet.
If you like the Withings brand, you can also check out the Withings Move ECG or the Apple Watch Series 5 or Series 4 for electrocardiogram functionality on your wrist.
How long will it last? The Withings BPM Core is solidly built with a durable cuff and rugged casing which houses the display. Expect the unit to last three years or more under normal usage.
Should you buy it? The Withings BPM Core may deliver reliable ECG and blood pressure measurements, but its inconsistent stethoscope prevents me from recommending this device.
Health & Fitness Fitness Tracker Reviews Product Reviews Wearable Reviews Wearables Mobile A new year approaches, which means a new slate of smartphones will start to hit in a few months. One of the first that we’ll see in 2024 should be from OnePlus with its flagship OnePlus 12.
The OnePlus 11 is an excellent phone, as we indicated in our review. It’s one of the best phones you can get in 2023, and is right up there with great competitors like the Samsung Galaxy S23 Ultra, Google Pixel 8 Pro, and iPhone 15 Pro Max.
Mobile If you were hoping that the recently released Apple Watch Ultra 2 will appear with a discount in this year's Black Friday deals, you're in luck because the smartwatch's 49mm, GPS + Cellular model is currently $60 off from Amazon. From $799, the wearable device is down to $739 -- it's still not cheap, but it's rare to enjoy savings when buying an Apple product that's just a couple of months old. There's no telling how long the offer will remain online though, so before it gets taken down, push through with your purchase.
Why you should buy the Apple Watch Ultra 2 We tagged the Apple Watch Ultra 2 as the best premium smartwatch for the iPhone in our list of the best smartwatches, and at first glance, it's obvious why. The 49mm titanium case and Always-On OLED touchscreen will catch anybody's attention because of their size and brightness, while the wearable device itself is very fast and smooth because it's powered by Apple's new S9 chipset. The Apple Watch Ultra 2 can last up to 36 hours on a single charge that may be extended to up to 72 hours in Low Power Mode, and it offers a comprehensive suite of health-related and fitness features. It also comes with the customizable Action button for a more convenient way of accessing your apps.
Mobile Double Tap is one of the coolest features I’ve used on the Apple Watch in a long time. It’s not the most useful, and I don’t find myself using it that often, but when I do have a need to tap my fingers together to activate a function, I’m still at the stage where I think, “Wow, this is a really impressive thing.” Here’s why it’s an example of what Apple does best — and why there’s so much potential for the future in it.
I was worried about Double Tap Apple Watch Series 9 Andy Boxall / Digital Trends Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
