Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Phones Best Tablets Tesla Phone Download Android 14 Best Android Phones Home Mobile Reviews Withings Connect review: Easy blood pressure monitoring By Kelly Hodgkins Close $100.00 Portable Accurate Stylish Long battery life Affordable Display difficult to read Hard to switch between users Withings is known for its stylish smartwatches that allow you to track your fitness without compromising your style. This emphasis on good looks carries over to its $100 Connect blood pressure monitor , which looks more like a fashion accessory than a medical device.
A stylish medical device Reliable performance Quick syncing and a long-lasting battery Pricing, Availability and Warranty information Our Take Does the Connect favor style over substance? I tested it against competing home digital blood pressure monitors , manual blood pressure cuffs, and even hospital units to find out.
The future of blood oxygen monitoring lies with your phone’s camera Withings takes on Apple with ECG-equipped smartwatch, blood pressure monitor A stylish medical device Withings hits all the check-marks with the design of its Connect blood pressure monitor.
 It’s slim and stylish with an all-in-one construction that attaches the pump directly to the cuff. There’s no cumbersome tubes or bulky pumps to manage. The cuff wraps around the device for storage, making it about the size of a sunglasses case. It’s a perfect size, small enough to fit in a purse or messenger bag easily, yet large enough to accommodate most arm sizes.
Kelly Hodgkins / Digital Trends The Connect has a gray cuff that doesn’t attract attention and a small white pump module that blends into the device. The discreet, stylish design made me feel comfortable taking it out of my bag to use in public without worrying about attracting any attention. It’s also quiet when operating; there are no beeps or chimes. The only noise is the sound of the pump inflating and deflating the cuff.
The Connect doesn’t have a typical LCD display but instead uses dot matrix-style LEDs to display the blood pressure reading. This hidden display gives the unit a sleek appearance, but it does make it more challenging to read your blood pressure results.
Reliable performance I compared the Connect to three different devices: a competing home blood pressure unit from Omron that you can find in your local drug store, a manual blood pressure cuff with a stethoscope and a bulb, and a hospital blood pressure monitor. I had three surgeries this summer, which gave me ample chances to test the Connect.
Withings didn’t skimp on the Connect blood pressure monitor — it’s a quality device. The pump inflates quickly and is powerful enough to measure blood pressures at both ends of the extreme. It takes about 30 seconds to get a measurement, which is then displayed on the blood pressure monitor and sent to the Withings Health Mate mobile app. The Connect measures both blood pressure (systolic and diastolic) and heart rate, supporting up to eight different users, though it is a minor pain to switch between them. To do so you have to press the button once the reading is over and cycle through the users to assign it to the correct person.
Kelly Hodgkins / Digital Trends As with most blood pressure monitors, there were a few spurious readings, but the Connect was accurate about 95 percent of the time. If I had an unusually high or low reading, I could usually attribute it to user error. Either I didn’t position the cuff correctly, or I moved while I was taking a reading. The Health Mate app allows you to delete flawed readings if you prefer to remove them.
The most significant benefit of this blood pressure monitor is its ease of use. It was so simple to measure my blood pressure that I ended up taking readings all the time. I accrued a ton of data points on my blood pressure and heart rate over the course of a month, and of course, the more data you have, the better the insight into your overall cardiovascular health.
Quick syncing and a long-lasting battery One indispensable feature of the Withings Core is the unit’s wireless connections via Bluetooth and Wi-Fi. This always-on connection immediately sends blood pressure readings to the Withings Health Mate app, enabling me to see my reading right at the top of my health timeline as soon as I open up the app. This includes my systolic and diastolic measurements and heart rate at that moment. Each blood pressure measurement is graded as normal, prehypertension, Stage 1 hypertension, Stage 2 hypertension and hypertensive crisis.
Kelly Hodgkins / Digital Trends These single measurements are also aggregated as trends you can see over a week or month. You can view your average systolic and diastolic readings as well as view your highest and lowest measurements. This can be exported to share with your doctor or sent to Apple Health or Google Fit.
The Withings Connect is powered by a USB rechargeable battery, which, even with multiple readings a day, I only charged once over the course of a month. In fact, I didn’t even charge it because it was low; I only charged it because I’m so conditioned to charge batteries on a regular basis that I felt like I should after a month of use.
Pricing, Availability and Warranty information The $100 Withings Connect is available from Withings , Amazon , Apple, and Best Buy.
Withings offers a one-year limited warranty on its digital health products.
Our Take The Connect earns my praise for its simplicity and slim design. It was so quick and easy to use that I found myself checking my blood pressure all the time. When I went to the hospital for surgery, it was small enough that I was able to carry the blood pressure monitor in my purse. I could bring it with me anywhere, which allowed me to monitor my blood pressure throughout the day, wherever.
Is there a better alternative? The Withings Connect is as useful as any blood pressure monitor on the market. My only gripe is its LED-style display, which some people may not like. Those who want a larger, more readable display should consider the Omron 10 blood pressure monitor , which has a backlit display and oversized letters.
How long will it last? The Connect is solidly built with a secure velcro flap and a durable cuff. I expect the unit to last three years or more under normal usage.
Should you buy it? This is is an outstanding blood pressure monitor for those with a busy lifestyle who need to monitor their blood pressure on the go.
Editors' Recommendations Sensor breakthrough brings us closer to blood glucose monitoring on wearables Omron HeartGuide brings blood pressure monitoring to your wrist Health & Fitness Fitness Tracker Reviews Product Reviews Wearable Reviews Mobile Google's popular line of Pixel devices includes smartphones, tablets, smartwatches, and wireless earbuds -- and they're all available with eye-catching discounts in this year's Black Friday deals. if you've had an eye on any one of them, you should take advantage of the offers that retailers have rolled out for the shopping holiday, and you need to act fast because stocks will run out quickly due to high demand. To help you out, we've rounded up our favorite Google Pixel Black Friday deals below.
Google Pixel Watch Black Friday deals The Google Pixel Watch 2 is already out, which means the Google Pixel Watch is a prime candidate for a discount on Black Friday. It's still a perfectly capable smartwatch though, even with the launch of its successor, as it runs on Google's Wear OS for access to a wide range of apps and health-monitoring features on your wrist. You need to push through with your purchase as soon as possible though, as stocks are already probably running low on most Black Friday smartwatch deals.
Mobile One of the biggest promises of 5G technology isn’t merely faster performance but rather the ability to power a far more connected world — a global network where every device can get online from just about anywhere.
That’s the vision behind MediaTek’s new M60 5G modem and T300 chip, which aim to be small and efficient enough to bring 5G to wearables, internet-of-things (IoT) devices, and other electronics that benefit from reliable internet connectivity but don’t require the massive speed and bandwidth of modern laptops and smartphones.
Reduced capability for greater efficiency Mobile Amazon Fire tablets may not be as powerful as Apple's iPads and Samsung's Galaxy Tabs, but they remain very popular among shoppers because they're relatively affordable options that provide sufficient performance for day-to-day use. If you want to stick to a tight budget when buying from Black Friday tablet deals, you should consider going for one of the several models of the Amazon Fire tablet, available in Amazon Black Friday deals. To help you make a quick decision so you can finalize your purchase before the discounts go offline, we've rounded up the most interesting Black Friday deals for Amazon Fire tablets, including our favorite bargain.
Amazon has a ton of early discounts right now, including Amazon Echo Black Friday deals and Amazon Fire TV Black Friday deals.
The best Amazon Fire tablet Black Friday deal Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
