Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Phones Best Tablets Tesla Phone Download Android 14 Best Android Phones Home Mobile Reviews Wyze Band review: Put this tracker on your radar By Alina Bradford Close $24.99 Heart rate tracker at a low price Sleep tracking also included Incredible value Alexa built-in Screen's a little wonky Difficult to put on Most people know Wyze as a company that produces smart home products like the Wyze Lock and the Wyze Smart Plug. The company not only wants to make your home smart, but now Wyze also wants to bring smart technology to your body with the addition of the Wyze Band to its lineup. With so many fitness bands already on the market , Wyze is facing some stiff competition. Here’s how it matches up.
Alexa on your wrist Features you’ll like Great view, iffy touch Band frustration Our take Will it last? Is there a better alternative? Should you buy it? Alexa on your wrist Alina Bradford/Digital Trends The stand-out feature on the Wyze Band is the addition of Alexa.
 This isn’t the only fitness band with Alexa , though. It just seems that Alexa’s uses are different on this particular band.
Xiaomi Mi Smart Band 4 impressions: All the fitness tracker you need It kind of makes you feel a bit like James Bond to walk through the door and then tell your watch to lock the door behind you.
While Fitbit’s Alexa is focused on your body, Wyze Band’s Alexa seems to be more focused on controlling your smart home devices and more traditional uses. By holding your finger on the screen you can activate Alexa and ask her questions, or use the voice assistant to control your home devices like lights, locks, and more. It kind of makes you feel a bit like James Bond to walk through the door and then tell your watch to lock the door behind you.
Unlike with Fitbit, I couldn’t use Alexa to tell me how many steps I’ve taken or other fitness information, though. By the way, Alexa doesn’t talk through the Wyze Band. All of the answers show up as text on the screen. This could be a bonus if you hate Alexa ’s, or any digital, voice.
Features you’ll like Alina Bradford/Digital Trends Other than Alexa, the Wyze Band has a pretty good roundup of features. It tracks steps/distance, heart rate, and sleep, and everything can also be tracked in detail on the Wyze App. The battery lasts a respectable 10 days, too. For comparison of how good this is, the Fitbit Inspire only lasts up to five days. The less you have to charge, the better. The Wyze Band is also waterproof rated up to 50m, which means you can wear it swimming, diving, or just running in the rain.
Great view, iffy touch I was pretty impressed with the crisp clarity of the AMOLED touch screen, which is comparable to the more expensive fitness tracker, the Samsung Galaxy Fit. It almost seemed like I was looking at my phone’s screen. The colors were bright and everything was super clear and easy to read.
Where the screen falls short is its responsiveness. It has a feature that is supposed to turn on the screen automatically when you raise your wrist. Sometimes it worked, and sometimes it didn’t. Usually, I had to jerk my wrist around a little to get the screen to turn on.
Unlike the Samsung Galaxy Fit, it does wake up when you tap it, so there’s that.
It also wasn’t very sensitive to touch. I guess this is good in a way since it won’t respond as easily to accidental touch. It was a bit frustrating when I was trying to access a stat. Unlike the Samsung Galaxy Fit, it does wake up when you tap it, so there’s that.
Band frustration Alina Bradford/Digital Trends Attaching the band around your wrist is annoying. Instead of a buckle of some sort, the band has a little nub that’s supposed to slip into a hole. Getting that little nub into your preferred hole is frustrating and can take a minute. If you have any disability in the hands, like carpal tunnel, arthritis, or tremors, securing the band could be pretty much impossible. I have mild carpal tunnel and it took me a lot longer than it should have to get the Wyze Band on my wrist.
Note: Since this review was published, Wyze has come out with a new band that has a clasp similar ones on traditional watches and the band is made of a softer silicone gel. This band is much easier to use. The company also told Digital Trends that it will be shipping out this new band to all current Wyze Band users.
Our take At $25, the Wyze Band is more affordable than any other comparable name brand fitness band on the market. While it’s not perfect, it is a nifty tracker for the price. It lacks the ability to connect with your phone to check messages or track specific exercises other than running, but it does have the ability to control your smart home devices. The Alexa capability is a big add for such a low-cost band.
Will it last? The Wyze Band’s band seems like it would be easy to break if it were to get snagged on something, but other than that, it seems sturdy. It does come with a limited warranty on materials and workmanship for one year.
Is there a better alternative? For the price, no. If you want more features like the ability to use your phone with your tracker or the ability to track multiple types of exercise automatically, your next best bet would be the Fitbit Inspire HR for $70.
Should you buy it? For $25, you really can’t go wrong if you’re looking for a basic fitness and sleep tracker. The Wyze Band is a good choice. Pair it with the also very affordable Wyze Scale and you’ll be on your way to a healthier lifestyle without spending a lot of cash.
Editors' Recommendations Apple’s next health tracker may be woven into your clothes Health & Fitness Smart Home Wearables Amazon Fitness Tracker Reviews Product Reviews Smart Home Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Wearable Reviews Wearables Mobile Google's popular line of Pixel devices includes smartphones, tablets, smartwatches, and wireless earbuds -- and they're all available with eye-catching discounts in this year's Black Friday deals. if you've had an eye on any one of them, you should take advantage of the offers that retailers have rolled out for the shopping holiday, and you need to act fast because stocks will run out quickly due to high demand. To help you out, we've rounded up our favorite Google Pixel Black Friday deals below.
Google Pixel Watch Black Friday deals The Google Pixel Watch 2 is already out, which means the Google Pixel Watch is a prime candidate for a discount on Black Friday. It's still a perfectly capable smartwatch though, even with the launch of its successor, as it runs on Google's Wear OS for access to a wide range of apps and health-monitoring features on your wrist. You need to push through with your purchase as soon as possible though, as stocks are already probably running low on most Black Friday smartwatch deals.
Mobile One of the biggest promises of 5G technology isn’t merely faster performance but rather the ability to power a far more connected world — a global network where every device can get online from just about anywhere.
That’s the vision behind MediaTek’s new M60 5G modem and T300 chip, which aim to be small and efficient enough to bring 5G to wearables, internet-of-things (IoT) devices, and other electronics that benefit from reliable internet connectivity but don’t require the massive speed and bandwidth of modern laptops and smartphones.
Reduced capability for greater efficiency Mobile Amazon Fire tablets may not be as powerful as Apple's iPads and Samsung's Galaxy Tabs, but they remain very popular among shoppers because they're relatively affordable options that provide sufficient performance for day-to-day use. If you want to stick to a tight budget when buying from Black Friday tablet deals, you should consider going for one of the several models of the Amazon Fire tablet, available in Amazon Black Friday deals. To help you make a quick decision so you can finalize your purchase before the discounts go offline, we've rounded up the most interesting Black Friday deals for Amazon Fire tablets, including our favorite bargain.
Amazon has a ton of early discounts right now, including Amazon Echo Black Friday deals and Amazon Fire TV Black Friday deals.
The best Amazon Fire tablet Black Friday deal Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
