Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Windows 12 GTA 5 Cheats Wordle Today iPhone 15 Deals Upcoming Movies Nintendo Switch 2 NYT Connections Today Google Pixel 8 Pro Review Home Cars Features Volvo EX90 price, range, release date, specs, and more By Christian de Looper Close Volvo It hasn’t always been a great time to buy an electric SUV, but that’s finally changing.
The Rivian R1S is here and the Kia EV9 is on the way to the U.S. soon. But there’s another option coming, and it could end up proving itself as a great option for those who like Volvo’s style and tech. The Volvo EX90 is a cousin to the ultra-low-cost EX30 and offers the same Scandinavian sense of style, combined with high-tech features and good electric range.
Volvo EX90 price Volvo EX90 release date Volvo EX90 colors and models Volvo EX90 charging speed and range Volvo EX90 performance Volvo EX90 tech features Our Volvo EX90 wishlist The EX90 isn’t here yet though. While Volvo has announced the car and a number of its features, there’s still a lot to learn about it. Curious to learn more? Here’s everything we know about the Volvo EX90 so far.
Volvo EX90 price The Volvo EX30 is set to be one of the cheapest electric cars on the market, but don’t expect the Volvo EX90 to be similar. The EX90 is expected to start at around $80,000, which puts it in direct competition with the likes of the Rivian R1S.
 That could make it a tough sell against an arguably more high-tech option.
Kia EV3: Release date, performance, range, and more 2025 Cadillac Escalade IQ: price, release date, design, specs No mere EV, the sensor-stuffed EX90 is Volvo’s towering tech flagship Unfortunately, the Volvo EX90 will not qualify for the federal EV tax credit in the U.S., as it will not meet the requirements for sourcing and manufacturing in the U.S.
Volvo EX90 release date The Volvo EX90 is available for reservations now, and it’s expected that deliveries will start in the first half of 2024. That, however, could change — so we’ll have to wait and see if those dates ultimately pan out.
Volvo EX90 colors and models Image used with permission by copyright holder Unfortunately, we don’t yet know what the trims will be on offer for the EX90. Of course, there will be multiple options, with some offering a longer range and others offering better performance — but we have yet to find out the details of the different models and the price variations. It’s possible that the EX90 will offer the same trims as the XC90, which comes in Core, Plus, and Ultimate trims, however, we’ll have to wait and see.
We do know the different color options though. The Volvo EX90 will come in Denim Blue, Sand Dune, Crystal White, Onyx Black, Platinum Grey, Silver Dawn, and Vapour Grey color options.
Volvo EX90 charging speed and range We don’t know the hard specs of the battery and charging speed for the EX90, but we do know that the EX90 will have a range of “up to 300 miles” and be able to recharge from 0% to 80% in 30 minutes.
The charging speed is unlikely to vary across trims, but the range will — and the phrase “up to 300 miles” suggests that the base model will probably be a fair bit less. We’re hoping that it won’t be as low as 230 or 240 miles, but rather close to 270 miles or so.
Image used with permission by copyright holder It’s possible that it’ll share many charging and range specs with the Polestar 3, considering the fact that the two share a platform. The Polestar 3 is able to charge at up to 250kW, which is relatively quick — though not as fast as the 350kW charging speeds on the Kia EV6 and Hyundai Ioniq 5.
Volvo EX90 performance The Volvo EX90 will be no slouch, despite its larger size. The SUV, according to Volvo, will offer two motors for an all-wheel drive configuration and will deliver 402 horsepower and 568 lb-ft of torque. That translates to the ability to get from 0 to 60 miles per hour in only 4.7 seconds, which is pretty quick.
It’s currently unclear if these specs are available on all models, the base model, or the highest-end model. It’s likely we’ll learn more in the near future.
Volvo EX90 tech features The Volvo EX90 will come with a range of high-end features too, as you would expect. The car comes with Volvo’s Android Automotive-based infotainment system, so you’ll get good integration with Google Maps and other Google services. It will also support CarPlay, so Apple users will be able to stream content from their phones with ease. If the EX90 is anything like the EX30, it’ll be one of Volvo’s few cars to offer wireless CarPlay support.
Image used with permission by copyright holder There will be some great driving features too, including 5G connectivity.
The EX90 will come with driver assistance features like Park Pilot Assist, which should be able to identify parking spots and park on its own. There will also be adaptive cruise control. And, Volvo says that it’ll offer Level 3 autonomous driving using the suite of sensors on the top of the car, by 2025. That means that it’ll be able to drive itself on the highway, without any interruption by the driver. You’ll still have to take over on many other roads, though.
Our Volvo EX90 wishlist There’s still a lot we don’t know about the Volvo EX90. We’re hoping that the figures around range and charging are minimums rather than maximums, though that seems unlikely. We are hoping that the base model still has at least 270 miles of range or so, though.
Apart from that, we’re hoping that the SUV is relatively intuitive. Larger SUVs, especially those with seven seats, should be built for versatility. Touches like making it easy to raise and lower seats, and expand on the storage space, really help.
Editors' Recommendations Volvo EM90 electric minivan: price, release date, range, and more Kia EV5: rumored pricing, design, range, features, and more Starting under $40K, Volvo’s compact EX30 will be its most affordable EV, and its fastest Volvo unveils the electric 2022 C40 Recharge with Android-powered in-car tech Tesla raises price of Model 3 by $500 as it adds a little bit more range Features Volvo Cars Update: The 2021 Volvo XC40 Recharge is an all-electric version of the Volvo XC40 crossover, which launched for the 2019 model year. While it comes with a not-insignificant price tag, our complete first drive review of the 2021 Volvo XC40 Recharge finds it well worth it.
Here it is in all its glory -- Volvo's first fully electric vehicle. The 2020 Volvo XC40 Recharge charts a new path for the Swedish carmaker, while still retaining and expanding its famous focus on safety. Add in a dash of Scandinavian design and we have a winner on our hands.
Cars Lucid Motors has become the latest automaker to announce that it will adopt the North American Charging Standard (NACS) – also known as "the Tesla plug" – for its electric vehicles.
The move follows in the footsteps of more than a dozen other automakers that have also adopted Tesla’s charging connector, among them General Motors, Ford, Toyota, BMW, Jaguar Land Rover, Volvo, and Honda.
Cars General Motors-owned Cruise has halted production of its fully driverless vehicle -- the Origin -- just over a week after it suspended robotaxi operations nationwide following a number of troubling incidents involving its cars.
The news was announced by Cruise CEO Kyle Vogt during a meeting with staff on Monday, according to Forbes, which obtained audio of the gathering.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
