Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Phones Best Tablets Tesla Phone Download Android 14 Best Android Phones Home Mobile Features There’s a problem with these 10 Google Pixel 8 features By Andy Boxall Close Andrew Martonik / Digital Trends Google talked about a lot of products and new software features during its Pixel 8 launch event , and it was easy to get overwhelmed by all the excitement. It was also easy to miss that quite a few of the features aren’t going to be available when the Google Pixel 8 , Google Pixel 8 Pro , and Google Pixel Watch 2 go on sale.
Magic Editor Zoom Enhance Skin temperature reading Smart Reply in Gboard Video Boost and Night Sight Video Contextual Replies for Call Screen Assistant with Bard Updated Magic Eraser Fitbit Labs Recorder Summarize U.S. English only It’s a bit of a trend in 2023 — Apple just did the same with Double Tap on the Apple Watch Series 9 — and a frustrating one, especially if a particular feature really caught your attention. In the case of the Pixel 8 lineup, there are 10 new features that look promising, but are all tarnished by delayed availability.
To make sure you are fully informed about what’s coming soon rather than available now, here’s our breakdown of what’s not going to be on your new Pixel device when you buy it.
Magic Editor Previous Next 1 3 Google Magic Editor Google Magic Editor is "coming soon" Digital Trends Magic Editor is "coming soon" Digital Trends Google’s image-editing tool is so powerful that it can change the entire look of your photo, from the framing to the weather conditions. It was originally revealed during Google I/O earlier this year. During the Pixel event, it appeared as if Magic Editor would be immediately available on the Pixel 8 series, but the small print at the end of the presentation states that Magic Editor is “coming soon.” This is also printed as a disclaimer in the advertisement for the feature. We’ll know the status of Magic Editor when we use the Pixel 8 devices more.
Zoom Enhance Google Google will use a custom generative AI image model to increase the quality of zoomed-in photos after they have been taken. When you pinch to zoom in on an image, Zoom Enhance will intelligently sharpen the scene, increasing quality even if you didn’t zoom in when you took the photo. It’s a Pixel 8 Pro-only feature, but you’ll have to wait until a software update in December to try it out.
Skin temperature reading Joe Maring / Digital Trends The Pixel 8 Pro has a temperature sensor on the back, and while it will be able to measure the temperature of objects, it will not accurately read skin temperature at launch. Google says it has applied to the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) for approval to measure skin temperature with a special Thermometer app and send it data to the Fitbit app, but approval has not been given yet.
FDA approval takes time, and in some previous cases, it has taken longer than a year for a wearable device to pass through the FDA’s tough tests. For now, even if the sensor does take skin temperature, the results may not be accurate — and certainly won’t meet the standards the FDA puts in place for medical-grade devices doing the same job.
Smart Reply in Gboard Digital Trends Smart Reply builds on Gboard’s improved proofreading tools, and by using Google’s generative AI, it will create higher-quality, more natural responses to messages on the Pixel 8 Pro. This will arrive in a software update in December, but it’s not clear when — or if — it will be available on other Pixel devices.
Video Boost and Night Sight Video Digital Trends Video Boost and Night Sight Video are two features that use the Tensor G3 processor and Google’s data centers to enhance your videos. After shooting a video, it’s uploaded to the cloud, where adjustments are made to the color, lighting, quality, and stabilization to create a new version of the video. This is how both Video Boost and Night Sight Video will operate. Google states these features are coming in a software update due in December.
Contextual Replies for Call Screen Google Google showed off how you’ll be able to use Google Assistant to reply to incoming calls without actually speaking to the caller. It used the example of confirming a doctor’s appointment over the phone, where a few button taps prompt Google’s contextual responses, all without personally speaking to the caller. The feature will come to the Pixel Watch and Pixel Watch 2 later this year, and it requires the device to be connected to a Tensor-equipped Pixel phone to operate.
Assistant with Bard Joe Maring / Digital Trends Described as an experiment, Google is bringing together its popular Assistant and its Bard generative AI to speed up tasks. For example, it can create a grocery list after being given a short overview of what you need, and the list can then be exported to a document and emailed to others, all in less than a minute. Assistant with Bard will also gather information from photos and can even be used to generate social media posts based on the image it sees. Assistant with Bard is only available to select testers at the moment, but will be available on Pixel 8 phones in the future.
Updated Magic Eraser Andy Boxall / Digital Trends The Magic Eraser tool is getting better at removing larger objects from photos without smudging the background by instead creatingall new pixels to intelligently fill in the gaps left behind. This updated version of Magic Eraser will be a Pixel 8 Pro-only feature in Google Photos at first and will be available at launch, but it won’t be on the Pixel 8 or other Pixel devices. This may change in the future.
Fitbit Labs Digital Trends The Pixel Watch 2 uses Fitbit’s app for health and fitness tracking. As part of the presentation, it was revealed that Google’s generative AI will be put to use in it to help better understand your performance and lifestyle. For example, it will analyze performance and how it compares to your previous efforts, then put forward information on why trends may change. It will also produce charts to show this information in a quick, visual form. This feature will be part of Fitbit Labs, and it’s coming next year to select testers. Those who own a Pixel phone will get priority access to the testing program too.
Recorder Summarize Voice Recorder Andy Boxall / Digital Trends Google’s Recorder app will use generative AI on-device to generate short summaries recapping the highlights of what was recorded, but only when it’s used on a Pixel 8 Pro. This feature will arrive in the December software update, and it’s not known if it will ever arrive on other Pixel devices.
U.S. English only Andrew Martonik / Digital Trends Although not a feature, it’s worth noting that various voice-controlled features announced during the Pixel event will be available in U.S. English only, including Summarize, where Assistant gathers key points from webpages together, and the updated version of Call Screen. This isn’t unusual, and Google will be working on support for other languages. But even when some of the above features do arrive, they may not operate properly in languages or regions other than English in the U.S..
Editors' Recommendations Google is finally fixing an annoying issue with its Pixel phones I’ve had the Google Pixel 8 Pro for a month. Here’s why I’m keeping it Google’s Pixel phones are in trouble I tested the Pixel 8 Pro and iPhone 15 Pro. This one has the best camera There might be something wrong with the Google Pixel Watch 2 Android Features Google Google Pixel Mobile The Google Pixel 8 Pro is a fine phone at $999. It’s got a great display, a good design, a bunch of AI features, and thr promise of updates over a long period of time.
I’ve been using the phone since launch and am getting accustomed to the new Google Photos features like Best Take and the improved Magic Eraser. I like the fact that I can get a great group photo without worrying if someone’s eyes are closed or isn’t ready for the photo. But the experience of using these features isn't what I was expecting.
It’s all about the experience Mobile Android 14 introduced a host of convenient additions to Google’s Pixel phones, but a recent minor update has utterly broken the storage system for some users. Specifically, owners of the Google Pixel 6, Google Pixel 6 Pro, and Google Pixel 6a who run multiple profiles on their phones are reporting that their phones no longer have access to the storage pipeline for the main profile.
That means users are locked out of accessing the stored media and find themselves unable to add new files as well. A few users have reported on Reddit and Google’s official community forum that they can’t even click images using the camera app because it flashes an insufficient storage warning message. A few others say trying to install an APK package also returns a similar storage writing roadblock.
Mobile Not long ago, it seemed that the Google Pixel 7a would be the last smartphone in Google's Pixel A series. However, recent rumors indicate that this may not be the case anymore.
As a result, we're likely to see the release of a Google Pixel 8a in the coming year. What can we expect from this new budget phone in terms of its specs, design, price, and more? Let's take a closer look at everything we know (so far) about the Google Pixel 8a.
Google Pixel 8a: release date Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
