Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Phones Best Tablets Tesla Phone Download Android 14 Best Android Phones Home Mobile Guides Does the Google Pixel 7 have face unlock? Yes, but there’s a catch By Jesse Hollington Close The next generation of Google’s Pixel smartphones has arrived. While the Pixel 7 and Pixel 7 Pro are mostly iterative refinements on Google’s now-established designs, the company packed in a few interesting surprises to this year’s models.
Google’s first attempt at face unlock Can I unlock the Pixel 7 with my face? Does the Pixel 7 still have a fingerprint sensor? What can I use the Pixel 7’s face unlock for? The Pixel 7 lineup will quickly feel familiar to anybody who has handled a Pixel 6 or Pixel 6 Pro , making it clear that Google now has a settled aesthetic for its smartphones. Rather than making broader design changes, Google has added some nice touches where they count, moving to a matte aluminum and glass finish on the Pixel 7 and an even classier polished aluminum and glass look for the Pixel 7 Pro.
Andrew Martonik/Digital Trends As attractive as the new design is, what really counts is what Google has packed in under the hood in the form of the company’s latest Tensor G2 processor and Titan M2 security chip. This pair of new chips power even more advanced computational photography and machine learning features and open the door to more sophisticated security capabilities, including the return of one feature that we feared Google had given up on.
Google’s first attempt at face unlock Google made a big splash in 2019 when it introduced a new facial recognition system to unlock the Pixel 4.
 Unfortunately, the delight in this new feature was somewhat short-lived. Although Google had seemingly put great effort into developing a secure facial recognition system to compete with Apple’s Face ID , Google’s version turned out to be missing at least one critical aspect when it first launched — it worked even when your eyes were closed — forcing the company to play catch-up with later security updates.
Julian Chokkattu/Digital Trends So, it didn’t come as much of a surprise when the Pixel 5 shipped without face unlock. Google had clearly decided it needed to go back to the drawing board, and the Pixel 5 didn’t even include the necessary infrared sensors, so there was no hope that it would appear in a later software update. While some rumors hinted it could be coming to the Pixel 6 , it never materialized on that device, leaving many to conclude that Google had given up on the feature entirely.
Can I unlock the Pixel 7 with my face? Thankfully, those assumptions have turned out to be false, and face unlock has returned to the Pixel 7 lineup.
 This lets you unlock your Pixel 7 or Pixel 7 Pro with merely a glance, and it’s part of Google’s broader approach to device security.
Google notes that the new face unlock feature is powered by the company’s “advanced machine learning models” that are now possible with the Tensor G2 chip, although they likely also have something to do with the improved wide-angle 10.8-megapixel selfie camera that’s now included on both the Pixel 7 and Pixel 7 Pro.
Google While last year’s Pixel 6 Pro sported a comparable 11.1MP front camera with a 94-degree field of view, the Pixel 6 was limited to a narrower-field 8MP camera. It’s an open question whether that lower-end camera was enough to drive Google’s facial recognition algorithms. Still, Google probably didn’t want to risk a face unlock feature performing differently on the two models. After all, it had enough problems to deal with on the Pixel 6’s in-display fingerprint sensor.
Does the Pixel 7 still have a fingerprint sensor? Likely in a desire to mirror Apple’s approach with Face ID, Google removed the fingerprint sensor in the Pixel 4 , leaving the somewhat flawed face unlock as the only option for biometric authentication.
Thankfully, it hasn’t made that mistake with the Pixel 7 lineup.
 Folks have a choice of using the under-display fingerprint sensor, face unlock, or both.
Andrew Martonik/Digital Trends While the fingerprint sensor on the Pixel 6 and Pixel 6 Pro had their share of problems at launch, most of those have been fixed in subsequent software updates , and the Pixel 6a delivered even more improvements.
 This gives us some confidence that Google has learned from its prior experiences and ironed out the bugs so that the Pixel 7 fingerprint sensor will perform accurately and reliably right out of the box.
That’s important, as it turns out, as there are some things you still need the fingerprint sensor for if you want to avoid keying in passwords all the time.
What can I use the Pixel 7’s face unlock for? Google seems to be taking a considerably more cautious approach to its facial recognition technology this time around, suggesting that it hasn’t fully recovered from the bad experiences of the Pixel 4 era.
Unlike Google’s earlier facial recognition security and Apple’s Face ID, with the Pixel 7 and Pixel 7 Pro , you can only use facial recognition to unlock your phone from the lock screen. Everything else requires that you enter a password or use the fingerprint sensor.
Andrew Martonik/Digital Trends This includes using Google Wallet or other mobile payment services, signing into Google accounts, and unlocking secure apps like password managers.
 For these, you’ll need to supply your fingerprint or whatever PIN or passcode the app or service requires.
Face unlock and fingerprint unlock are also an either-or choice. You can use one or the other, but you can’t force your Pixel 7 to require that you supply both a facial and fingerprint scan as a sort of two-factor authentication system.
Nevertheless, despite these limitations, face unlock is a welcome addition, and it’s nice to see that Google is giving people more options for biometric authentication. While it remains to be seen how well the face unlock will work under real-world conditions, the in-display fingerprint sensor is still there to give you a fallback.
Editors' Recommendations Best Google Pixel 7 Pro deals: Get one of the best phones for free Best Google Pixel 7 deals: Can you get the phone for free? Google’s future Pixel phones just got hit with bad news Best Google Pixel 7a cases: the 12 best ones you can buy Google Pixel 7a colors: here’s every option you can get Android Google Google Pixel Mobile The Google Pixel 7a is Google's latest addition to its midrange A-series smartphones. It's likely to be one of the best options for anyone who wants a strong handset with pure Android, solid performance, and an exceptional camera.
But we can't touch on the hardware without addressing one of the most common questions about any new smartphone. Namely, does the phone have a headphone jack? Smartphone manufacturers have been on a crusade against the venerable port in recent years, and the headphone jack has been excised from the vast majority of the phones you can buy today. So, does the Google Pixel 7a include a headphone jack, or will you need other ways to listen to music, audiobooks, and podcasts? The Pixel 7a does not have a headphone jack Mobile While smartphones have become increasingly more durable over time, their screens are still one of the most vulnerable parts needing protection. A good case can help protect devices from shattering, but if you want maximum security, it's best to invest in a screen protector — especially if you're picking up a brand new phone like the Google Pixel 7a.
Here are the best screen protectors for the Pixel 7a that will let you use the phone safely without fear of cracking, chipping, or full-on shattering of its screen.
Mobile The Pixel 7a has landed, and it does quite a few things better than its predecessor. While it still has the 6.1-inch OLED display as last year's Pixel 6a, the Pixel 7a bumps the refresh rate up to 90Hz from the original 60Hz. You also have the newer Google Tensor G2 chip inside, plus a huge jump to 64MP on the main camera compared to the 12.2MP camera on the Pixel 6a.
But what about wireless charging? The Pixel 6a did not have wireless charging capabilities, so did Google learn its lesson by adding that feature to its next budget-friendly phone? Yes, the Google Pixel 7a has wireless charging Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
