Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Phones Best Tablets Tesla Phone Download Android 14 Best Android Phones Home Mobile Features Don’t buy the Google Pixel 8 — 5 reasons to wait for the Pixel 9 By Christine Romero-Chan Close Joe Maring / Digital Trends Google has unveiled the next generation of Pixel devices at its “Made by Google” event in New York.
 This new lineup includes the Google Pixel 8 , Google Pixel 8 Pro , the Google Pixel Watch 2 , Improvements with the Tensor G4 chip Better cameras for the Google Pixel 9 Possibly time for a new design Unexpected surprises More colors The wait-and-see game The Google Pixel 8 and Pixel 8 Pro definitely have some nice upgrades this year. The designs of both phones have subtle changes like more ergonomic rounded corners, flat displays, and symmetrical bezels. The Pixel 8 has a 6.2-inch AMOLED display with a 60-120Hz refresh rate and up to 2,000 nits of peak brightness, while the Pixel 8 Pro has a 6.7-inch AMOLED display with a 1-120Hz refresh rate and 2,400 nits of peak brightness. That’s the brightest screen on a smartphone yet! Other improvements include the new Google Tensor G3 chip, up to 1TB storage on the Pixel 8 Pro, and the 8 Pro also has a new 48MP telephoto lens. New camera software features include Best Take, Macro Focus on the Pixel 8, and more.
While these upgrades are certainly nice, they’re still pretty iterative from their predecessors. If you don’t necessarily need a new Pixel right now, it could be worth holding out until next year for the Google Pixel 9.
Improvements with the Tensor G4 chip Google When Google debuted the Tensor chip in the Google Pixel 6 series, it was the first step in moving away from Qualcomm’s Snapdragon chips that largely dominate the industry. However, ever since it debuted — and even now with the Pixel 8 — the Tensor chips have largely been designed in collaboration with Samsung. Basically, the Tensor G-series chips have parts built by Google, but the majority of the design is similar to Samsung’s own Exynos chips.
According to recent reports from The Information , Google initially planned to release a fully custom, in-house chip for the Tensor G4 in 2024 with the Pixel 9. However, it seemed to miss a deadline, so it may not be included in the Pixel 9 after all. We likely won’t see Google’s own custom Tensor chip until 2025 with the Google Pixel 10, and Google will likely still be working with Samsung for the Tensor G4 next year.
Still, the Tensor chipsets so far have not been the best performers. In our time with previous Pixel phones, Tensor chips can get pretty warm after just a few minutes with resource-intensive apps or tasks. And despite having large batteries, Google’s Tensor-powered phones typically don’t last more than a day with heavy use. We’ve also encountered bugs and performance issues as well.
While the Google Pixel 8 and Tensor G3 have just come out, we don’t yet know how well the chip will perform. Maybe the third time’s the charm for Google, but it wouldn’t hurt to hold out another year or more for a better-performing and more power-efficient G4 chip or later. Even if it’s still not created fully in-house by Google, another year of experience and design should make it an improved chip across the board.
Better cameras for the Google Pixel 9 Joe Maring / Digital Trends With the Google Pixel 8 series, only the Pixel 8 Pro received significant camera upgrades. That’s good news if you want the Pro model, but the regular Pixel 8 feels like it was left out in the dust.
The specs for the Pixel 8 camera include a dual camera system with a 50MP main sensor along with a 12MP autofocus ultrawide camera — virtually unchanged from the cameras on the Google Pixel 7.
 Meanwhile, the Pixel 8 Pro has a 50MP main camera with 2x optical zoom, a new 48MP ultrawide camera, and a 48MP telephoto camera with 5x optical zoom and Super Res Zoom up to 30x. And while both have a 10.5MP selfie camera, only the Pro model has autofocus.
We wouldn’t be surprised if more improvements were made to the regular Pixel 9 cameras next year, such as the higher megapixel ultrawide camera and autofocus on the selfie camera. After all, the cameras on the base model have remained pretty much the same since the Pixel 6, so they’re definitely due for an upgrade. There’s no guarantee that will happen on the Google Pixel 9, but it sure does seem like next year is when Google will need to make those upgrades.
Possibly time for a new design Google Pixel 8 and Pixel 8 Pro Andrew Martonik / Digital Trends Google has kept the same overall design aesthetic for its Pixel smartphones since the Pixel 6. And there’s nothing really wrong with that — it’s a good design that stands out from the crowd. The rounded corners and the camera bar definitely make the Pixel unique among a sea of iPhones and Samsungs.
If you take a look at the history of Google Pixel design, the design changes every two to three years. Since the Pixel 6, Google has continued to use the same design for three years now, continuing the Pixel 6 aesthetics with the Pixel 7 and now the Pixel 8. The Pixel 9 would be the perfect time to change things up a bit.
We have no idea what a refreshed design for the Google Pixel could look like, but for anyone who’s tired of the same old camera bar on the back, it may be worth holding out another year to see what Google comes up with for the Pixel 9.
Unexpected surprises Andy Boxall / Digital Trends Google sometimes drops some unexpected surprises with new Pixel launches, so nothing’s impossible. This year, we got a novelty temperature sensor on the Pixel 8 Pro , which ultimately may just be a gimmick. But hey, it’s there if you want to use it — and it’s not something you’ll find on any other smartphones available today.
The Pixel 8 Pro also got a storage upgrade of up to 1TB, similar to Apple’s iPhone 15 Pro and iPhone 15 Pro Max.
 Perhaps Google could increase the storage on the base model Pixel 9, as the Pixel 8 is currently only available in 128GB or 256GB. With possible advanced camera upgrades next year, it would be nice if Google increased the storage capacity of the base version to 512GB at least.
What other random things could we see on the Pixel 9? Who knows! Maybe Google will bring back Active Edge for squeezing the phone to activate Google Assistant. Perhaps we’ll see the return of Soli for hands-free gestures like the Google Pixel 4 had. Or maybe there will be something that’s not even on our radar yet! Google typically finds interesting ways to surprise us with the Pixel series, and there’s no reason to believe that won’t happen with the Google Pixel 9.
More colors Google Pixel 8 Pro (left) and Google Pixel 8 Digital Trends Google typically has at least one fun color for both the base Pixel and Pixel Pro. This year with the Pixel 8, we got a nice Rose color, while the Pixel 8 Pro got a gorgeous Bay blue color.
However, though I was looking forward to the Rose color myself, it seems a bit more dull in person and looks more like a peachy hue rather than pink. Maybe with the Pixel 9, Google can actually release a true pink color, more like what Apple has with the pink iPhone 15.
I would also love to see Google come up with a purple color, perhaps for the Pixel 9 Pro, or even a bold red. Something fun that hasn’t been done before, in addition to the usual black and white colors.
The wait-and-see game Google Pixel 7 (left) and Pixel 7a Andy Boxall / Digital Trends If you need a new smartphone right now and you want one from Google, we aren’t saying to suffer for another year waiting for the Pixel 9. Buy a Google Pixel 8 or Pixel 8 Pro if you need it, and you’re likely to end up with one of the better Android phones you can get this year.
However — if you don’t need to upgrade this very second, and you’re OK waiting to see what Google has to offer next year, it’s worth seeing what the company has to offer with the Google Pixel 9.
Editors' Recommendations I did a Pixel 8 and OnePlus 11 camera test. Picking a winner wasn’t easy Google’s Pixel phones are in trouble I tested the Pixel 8 Pro and iPhone 15 Pro. This one has the best camera Don’t update your Pixel phone — a new Android update might break it Google Pixel 8a: news, rumored price, release date, and more Android Features Google Google Pixel Mobile Hi, my name is Joe, and I have a cloud storage problem.
It all happened this past Saturday. It was a rainy and chilly fall afternoon, I was getting ready to meet up with some friends for drinks, and there I was — sitting at my Mac mini, signing up for a 2TB Google One plan so I could store all of my pictures in Google Photos.
Mobile One of the most surprising additions to Google’s Pixel hardware in recent years is temperature sensing. The Google Pixel 8 Pro comes armed with a temperature sensor that can measure the temperature of objects simply by “scanning” them from an optimum distance within the five-centimeter range. Google says the sensor is good for “beverages, cooking pan, water temperature, and more.” The smartphone community, however, is seemingly hell-bent on relegating it to gimmick status. But average Pixel 8 Pro owners are finding cool ways to use it. As detailed in this Reddit post, one Pixel 8 Pro user was stuck in a stormy situation that took out the power supply for 36 hours, putting them in a quandary regarding the status of food items kept in an out-of-power refrigerator.
Mobile I have a not-so-surprising confession: I tend to want every new phone that comes out. I'm a sucker for good marketing, and smartphone launches have some of the best marketing around. Whether it's a new feature like a telephoto lens, a bigger battery, a more vivid display, or a radically new form factor, I get a bad case of fear of missing out almost every time. It's why I often find myself buying the most expensive model, despite not really needing to.
So, I was slightly confused when the recent launch of the Google Pixel 8 Pro didn't leave me feeling like I wanted the phone at all. Or rather, I did, but the desire was undercut by another emotion: annoyance. I'm mad at the Pixel 8 Pro, but it's not for the reasons you might think.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
