Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Phones Best Tablets Tesla Phone Download Android 14 Best Android Phones Home Mobile Features I want to love the Pixel 7 and Pixel 7 Pro, but Google won’t let me By Joe Maring Close Google’s Pixel 7 and Pixel 7 Pro smartphones have landed. The big announcement came and went, the phones are available online and in stores for purchase, and full reviews are now live all over the internet — including ours.
Google had its work cut out for it The Pixel 7 is a phone with unresolved problems This isn’t anything new for Google If you’ve read our Pixel 7 review or Pixel 7 Pro review , you’ll notice that Digital Trends’ Senior Writer Andy Boxall and myself were both fairly critical of the phones. There are things the Pixel 7 and 7 Pro do incredibly well, and they come very close to being some of the year’s best smartphones.
 But getting very close isn’t the same as going all the way.
Google had its work cut out for it Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Last year’s Pixel 6 lineup was a massive shift forward for the Pixel series. Google used the Pixel 6 and Pixel 6 Pro to usher in a brand new design language, its first in-house Tensor chipset, new camera sensors, and its Android 12 software with its fresh Material You design. And a lot of it worked incredibly well. We said the Pixel 6 Pro was “the dawn of a fantastic new era for Google phones” in our review last year , which featured ample praise for its outstanding camera performance and robust photo-editing features.
But perfect phones the Pixel 6/6 Pro were not. In the weeks and months following their release, it didn’t take long for people to notice that such big year-over-year upgrades also brought unwanted consequences.
What sort of consequences? Where to begin? Numerous Pixel 6 owners reported that the adaptive brightness of their screen would randomly increase/decrease dramatically for seemingly no reason. Others had an issue where music and other playing media would pause on its own. There were also rampant complaints about Android Auto connection issues, a flickering problem with the display, and a healthy dose of random device reboots.
And those were just the software bugs. The Pixel 6 series was also lambasted for having poor cellular connectivity, a sluggish fingerprint sensor, and lackluster battery life. Things got so bad that prolific names in the tech review space, like MKBHD, made dedicated videos calling out these problems.
It ended up being a rough situation, but at the very least, it gave Google very clear problems to address as it worked on the Pixel 7.
The Pixel 7 is a phone with unresolved problems Joe Maring/Digital Trends At least, that’s what should have happened. To Google’s credit, the Pixel 7 and Pixel 7 Pro do improve things compared to the Pixel 6 and Pixel 6 Pro. The designs are more refined, the cameras are even better, the displays are improved, and there are more software goodies to play with. They’re all great upgrades! But what about fixing the very real problems of the Pixel 6 series? That’s where things get frustrating.
My time with the Pixel 7 Pro has been challenging, to say the very least. The fingerprint sensor is still slower than it should be, battery life remains mediocre, and the software bugs are just as prevalent as ever. From games scaling incorrectly to Quick Settings icons not displaying how they should to YouTube videos playing the video with no audio — it’s been a rough experience.
I can’t tell you how many times I’ve seen this … Joe Maring/Digital Trends It seems like my Pixel 7 Pro has had a worse go of it than some of my colleagues and peers, but I’m clearly not alone in encountering persistent software bugs. Andy’s Pixel 7 has had choppy scrolling animations in Google Discover, and he’s also found audio issues in the YouTube app. There have been multiple reports of bugs crippling the Pixel 7’s setup process , jittery scrolling performance , camera focusing problems , freezes/reboots … the list goes on.
Just like last year, it isn’t as easy as saying the Pixel 7 and 7 Pro are buggy phones. Some Pixel 6 owners didn’t have any issues, while others were plagued with relentless bugs. The same is true of the Pixel 7.
 Some people have clearly had very good experiences with Google’s latest phones — and that’s great! But it’s just as evident that getting a smooth, reliable device with the Pixel 7 isn’t guaranteed. I want to be able to wholeheartedly recommend the Pixel 7 and Pixel 7 Pro , but when buying one leaves it up to chance to decide if you’re getting a good phone or not, that becomes a serious roadblock.
This isn’t anything new for Google Corey Gaskin / Digital Trends If these inconsistencies with the Pixel 7 and 7 Pro were a one-time fluke, I’d be much more inclined to give Google a pass. No company is perfect, and everyone drops the ball at some point. But the larger issue at hand is that Google’s inability to iron out these quirks has been ongoing for years.
The Pixel 2 XL had a notoriously poor display that was infamous for quick burn-in and bland colors. The Pixel 3 lineup was plagued by bad RAM management. The Pixel 4 was a great phone held back by abysmal battery life. With every Pixel release, it seems like something rears its ugly head that keeps the phones from achieving true greatness.
Ultimately, I’m left scratching my head and wondering how this keeps happening. Pixels are often great smartphones — excellent, even. But when Google has a well-documented history of continuing problems with its smartphone family, and is still ironing out kinks in its seventh generation with the Pixel 7 series, these problems become harder to look past when they keep happening year after year.
Joe Maring/Digital Trends Google isn’t a small company. It has a market cap over $1.3 trillion with no shortage of time, talent, and money to create the best smartphones it can. But despite all of that, Pixels often end up feeling like products from a scrappy startup. One year it’s a bad display panel, another it’s inconsistent RAM performance, another it’s unforgivably short battery life, and another it’s no-stop software bugs.
Making phones is hard, I get that. But for a company of Google’s size and stature, it’s extremely frustrating that recommending a Pixel 7 or Pixel 7 Pro still comes with a huge asterisk. I want these to be phones I can tell friends and family they should buy and have zero hesitation about it. But I can’t. We were already talking about the lack of trust with the Pixel lineup last year, and the fact that we’re having the same conversation again with the Pixel 7 doesn’t instill much confidence.
Editors' Recommendations Google is finally fixing an annoying issue with its Pixel phones I’ve had the Google Pixel 8 Pro for a month. Here’s why I’m keeping it Google’s Pixel phones are in trouble I tested the Pixel 8 Pro and iPhone 15 Pro. This one has the best camera There might be something wrong with the Google Pixel Watch 2 Android Features Google Google Pixel Mobile The Google Pixel 8 Pro is a fine phone at $999. It’s got a great display, a good design, a bunch of AI features, and thr promise of updates over a long period of time.
I’ve been using the phone since launch and am getting accustomed to the new Google Photos features like Best Take and the improved Magic Eraser. I like the fact that I can get a great group photo without worrying if someone’s eyes are closed or isn’t ready for the photo. But the experience of using these features isn't what I was expecting.
It’s all about the experience Mobile Apple iPhone 15 Pro Max (left) and Apple iPhone 15 Plus Andy Boxall / Digital Trends An iPhone 15 with a big screen is calling your name, and this year you really do have a choice of two. The iPhone 15 Pro Max has grabbed headlines with its titanium body and improved camera, but the iPhone 15 Plus has the same size screen and is $200 cheaper; plus, it’s a great phone overall.
Mobile Android 14 introduced a host of convenient additions to Google’s Pixel phones, but a recent minor update has utterly broken the storage system for some users. Specifically, owners of the Google Pixel 6, Google Pixel 6 Pro, and Google Pixel 6a who run multiple profiles on their phones are reporting that their phones no longer have access to the storage pipeline for the main profile.
That means users are locked out of accessing the stored media and find themselves unable to add new files as well. A few users have reported on Reddit and Google’s official community forum that they can’t even click images using the camera app because it flashes an insufficient storage warning message. A few others say trying to install an APK package also returns a similar storage writing roadblock.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
