Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Phones Best Tablets Tesla Phone Download Android 14 Best Android Phones Home Mobile Features Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? I took these pictures with the Google Pixel 8, but you won’t believe me By Andy Boxall Close Andy Boxall / Digital Trends This time last week I was a bit stuck. The Google Pixel 8 was in my hand, and I wanted to take photos with it. After all, it’s the big selling point of this phone, and it was important to see if it continues the great Pixel tradition of housing a fantastic camera. Except I was feeling rather uninspired and creatively blocked.
Why the Google Pixel 8’s camera is so special Photography and AI come together The rest of the Pixel 8 experience Worth the extra money? Pondering what to do, I just went out and took photos, because I wanted to see what all the software behind the new camera could do to make ordinary pictures something special when I got home. What I found is it takes ordinary photos and turns them into something unbelievable, in both good and bad ways, and it barely makes sense that all this is possible on a phone.
Why the Google Pixel 8’s camera is so special Andy Boxall / Digital Trends The Google Pixel 8’s ability doesn’t just come from its camera hardware, so let’s take a closer look at all the specifications. On the back is a new 50-megapixel main camera with a 1/1.31-inch sensor and an f/1.68 aperture, which is alongside a 12MP wide-angle camera with autofocus and a 125-8-degree field of view. The camera has both optical and electronic image stabilization (OIS and EIS), a spectral and flicker sensor, and laser autofocus.
But what makes it stand out from the competition, and where my creativity was fired up more after simply going out and taking the photos, is in its software toolkit. In addition to the usual Night Sight lowlight mode, Macro mode, Portrait mode, and Super Res Zoom (up to 8x digital zoom on the Pixel 8), Google Photos contains the new Magic Editor feature, along with Magic Eraser , Ultra HDR, and a comprehensive suite of editing tools.
Now that I’ve had some time to use the Pixel 8 and to see the power of these many AI-driven features firsthand, I remain concerned they could lead us to forget some of what can make a photograph special , but I’m also astonished by what they can do. Photography on the Pixel 8 is way more than simply pointing the camera in the general direction of your subject.
Photography and AI come together Previous Next 1 8 Edited with Google's Magic Editor Andy Boxall / Digital Trends Pixel 8 original photo Andy Boxall / Digital Trends Edited with Google's Magic Editor Andy Boxall / Digital Trends Pixel 8 original photo Andy Boxall / Digital Trends Edited with Google's Magic Editor Andy Boxall / Digital Trends Pixel 8 original photo Andy Boxall / Digital Trends Edited with Google's Magic Editor Andy Boxall / Digital Trends Pixel 8 original photo Andy Boxall / Digital Trends I went out to take some photos, looking for some inspiration in shapes that I may have otherwise ignored. I may not have taken anything that special, but I was pleased with the variety. It was only when I sat down at home and used the Magic Editor, Magic Eraser, and Google Photos’ powerful editing suite that I could really get creative, and truly transform the photos using these incredible tools.
The images in the gallery above show the original photos I took, and the photos then created using Magic Editor. Unlike Magic Eraser, this feature uses generative AI — an action performed in the cloud and requires the image to be backed up first — to change the overall look of the image. With just a tap it gives you multiple choices on how to alter the image, based on your preference, which can be almost endlessly refreshed if you don’t like the options. Objects can be moved and erased too, but unlike Magic Eraser, Magic Editor auto-generates the background instead of concealing it with a smudge.
Previous Next 1 6 Edited with Google Photos Andy Boxall / Digital Trends Edited with Google Photos Andy Boxall / Digital Trends Edited with Google Photos Andy Boxall / Digital Trends Edited with Google Photos Andy Boxall / Digital Trends Edited with Google Photos Andy Boxall / Digital Trends Edited with Google Photos Andy Boxall / Digital Trends Change the sky or water using Magic Editor and the results are undeniably striking, and because it’s an AI-driven process it can look more realistic than other versions of these tools if you use them with restraint. I didn’t go for realism, as I wanted to give the photos a hyper-real style. I didn’t care about whether it made sense, I wanted impact. It’s successful, but you can sometimes see where it adds pre-generated backgrounds (such as the “new” sky between the two tree trunks in one of the photos) to fill in the blanks, an approach it also takes when you move objects.
The Pixel 8 takes good photos without all this sorcery at work, but I’m not deep enough into using it to fully assess its ability yet. However, the power and huge creative potential of Magic Editor, along with Google’s existing editing tools, makes the phone a very exciting prospect for anyone wanting to explore how photography and AI can work together. It’s incredible that it’s all possible on a smartphone, and even more so that it’s accessible to everyone regardless of how proficient they are at photo editing. All it takes is a few button taps and a few moments of processing time.
The rest of the Pixel 8 experience Andy Boxall / Digital Trends Magic Editor’s changes are performed in the cloud, so there is a pause while you wait for the options to be generated, but it’s not restrictive. Magic Eraser and other photo edits are performed on the device itself, and there’s no waiting around at all. I’ve been using the Pixel 8 for five days as my main phone, and have not noticed any speed problems or any overheating yet either. It looks like the Tensor G3, at least at this early stage, has improved in this area over the Tensor G2.
Battery life has been decent, but I have not put the phone through its paces yet. With a couple of hours of screen time per day without gaming, it lasts two full days, but only just. When I start to use the phone more, I have a feeling it will struggle to last more than a full day with hard use, including games. I’ve been using it connected to the Google Pixel Watch 2 , which will add some strain to the battery.
Andy Boxall / Digital Trends Android 14 doesn’t bring any major new features, so it’s not all that different from Android 13.
 It has been stable and reliable, and the current battery life indicates the promised efficiency improvements are paying off. I started using the Pixel 8 immediately after using the Google Pixel 7 Pro , and in all honesty, it’s hard to tell much of a difference between the screens. This isn’t meant negatively, as the Pixel 8 looks great, and there’s more than enough brightness to see it on a sunny day.
Worth the extra money? Andy Boxall / Digital Trends The Pixel 8’s modest size and weight make it a very comfortable phone to own and use every day, the software and performance haven’t disappointed, and as I’ve explained, the camera and its AI toolkit are genuinely impressive. I still love the design, even in the boring black color seen here.
While I’m feeling very positive towards the Pixel 8 at this stage, the issue of the increased price does cause a few second thoughts. It’s up from $599 to $699, and although I understand it has some new components and additional software features, value has still been eroded, even if it’s only by a little. The Google Pixel 7’s price made it such an easy recommendation ( reliability concerns aside ) to a lot of people, even those with a relatively modest budget.
Andy Boxall / Digital Trends The Google Pixel 8’s increase takes it out of reach of anyone looking at the Samsung Galaxy A54 , for example, and brings the excellent OnePlus 11 into the conversation, along with the Galaxy S23 too. While I think there’s value in the AI photo tools, not everyone will feel the same, and I also question their long-term appeal.
The trouble is, take all the photo editing and AI magic away, and the Pixel 8 may end up being a solid, but fairly unremarkable smartphone. I’ll reach a conclusion on whether the Pixel 8 is worth the extra over a phone like the Pixel 7a in our full review, which is coming very soon.
Editors' Recommendations I did a Pixel 8 and OnePlus 11 camera test. Picking a winner wasn’t easy Google’s Pixel phones are in trouble I tested the Pixel 8 Pro and iPhone 15 Pro. This one has the best camera Google Pixel 8a: news, rumored price, release date, and more I just spent $100 on Google Photos for a ridiculous reason Android Features Google Google Pixel Mobile One of the most surprising additions to Google’s Pixel hardware in recent years is temperature sensing. The Google Pixel 8 Pro comes armed with a temperature sensor that can measure the temperature of objects simply by “scanning” them from an optimum distance within the five-centimeter range. Google says the sensor is good for “beverages, cooking pan, water temperature, and more.” The smartphone community, however, is seemingly hell-bent on relegating it to gimmick status. But average Pixel 8 Pro owners are finding cool ways to use it. As detailed in this Reddit post, one Pixel 8 Pro user was stuck in a stormy situation that took out the power supply for 36 hours, putting them in a quandary regarding the status of food items kept in an out-of-power refrigerator.
Mobile I have a not-so-surprising confession: I tend to want every new phone that comes out. I'm a sucker for good marketing, and smartphone launches have some of the best marketing around. Whether it's a new feature like a telephoto lens, a bigger battery, a more vivid display, or a radically new form factor, I get a bad case of fear of missing out almost every time. It's why I often find myself buying the most expensive model, despite not really needing to.
So, I was slightly confused when the recent launch of the Google Pixel 8 Pro didn't leave me feeling like I wanted the phone at all. Or rather, I did, but the desire was undercut by another emotion: annoyance. I'm mad at the Pixel 8 Pro, but it's not for the reasons you might think.
Mobile Google released the next generation of Pixel devices recently, including the Google Pixel 8 and Google Pixel 8 Pro. These have been the best Pixel smartphones in a while, as they pack the improved Tensor G3 chip inside, better cameras, brighter displays, and more — all in a slightly updated design. I've been using the phones for a couple of weeks now, and I really like what Google's done with them.
But Google also added some more photo editing capabilities to the Pixel 8 lineup, with a heavy reliance on AI with the Tensor G3 chip. While these AI-heavy editing tools can help you chase perfection, they shouldn’t be relied on too heavily or abused.
The Pixel 8's AI tools are impressive ...
Magic Editor on the Google Pixel 8 Christine Romero-Chan / Digital Trends.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
