Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Phones Best Tablets Tesla Phone Download Android 14 Best Android Phones Home Mobile News Google Pixel 8a: news, rumored price, release date, and more By Bryan M. Wolfe Close Smart Prix Not long ago, it seemed that the Google Pixel 7a would be the last smartphone in Google’s Pixel A series. However, recent rumors indicate that this may not be the case anymore.
Google Pixel 8a: release date Google Pixel 8a: price Google Pixel 8a: design Google Pixel 8a: specs Google Pixel 8a: cameras Google Pixel 8a: battery Google Pixel 8a: software and updates As a result, we’re likely to see the release of a Google Pixel 8a in the coming year. What can we expect from this new budget phone in terms of its specs, design, price, and more? Let’s take a closer look at everything we know (so far) about the Google Pixel 8a.
Google Pixel 8a: release date Andrew Martonik / Digital Trends It’s well-known that Google has a history of releasing new Pixel models every year, always with better features and improvements than the previous ones. The latest addition to the Pixel A series, the Pixel 7a, was released in May of this year, while the Pixel 6a debuted in July 2022. The Pixel 5a, on the other hand, was launched in August 2021, and the Pixel 4a appeared in August 2020.
As per the previous release schedules, it can be assumed that the Pixel 8a will arrive either in late spring or summer next year. If we had to guess, we’ll probably see the Pixel 8a get announced in May 2024 during Google’s annual I/O developer conference.
Google Pixel 8a: price Joe Maring / Digital Trends Google has been inconsistent with the pricing of its A series smartphones compared to its regular Pixel series. For instance, at launch, the Pixel 7a was priced at $499, while the initial price for the Pixel 7 was $599. This price difference of $100 between the two smartphones was enough to make the Pixel 7a a more attractive option for budget-conscious consumers.
However, at one point, Google reduced the price of the Pixel 7a to $444 and the Pixel 7 to $449, making the prices much more comparable. This closeness in price is why some people believed that the A series Pixels were no longer necessary in the Pixel lineup.
Fast-forward to the present, and we have Google’s latest release, the Google Pixel 8 , which is priced at $699. This is $100 more than the Pixel 7 when it was first launched, and it suggests that Google may have realized that the prices of the Pixel 7a and Pixel 7 were too similar. As a result, it wouldn’t be surprising to see the Pixel 8a priced the same as the Pixel 7a at $499, or even $549 at the most. Anything more than that would make it less likely that someone would want to choose the Pixel 8a over the Pixel 8.
Google Pixel 8a: design Abhishek Yadav / X The regular Pixel lineup usually inspires the design of the A series. As a result, it is safe to assume that the Pixel 8a will resemble the Pixel 8 to a great extent. In September, before the release of the Pixel 8 , a Pixel 8a leak showed a phone with noticeably rounder corners. The Pixel 8 and Pixel 8 Pro also have more rounded corners than their predecessors.
Smart Prix Google will likely use a combination of materials for the Pixel 8a. Some materials may match those used for the Pixel 8 , while others may be less expensive to bring down the price. You’ll likely see thicker front bezels on the Pixel 8a than on the more expensive models.
The above render and hands-on photos offer a pretty good indication of what the Google Pixel 8a will look like — which is to say, very similar to the Pixel 8 and 8 Pro.
Google Pixel 8a: specs Google The upcoming Pixel 8a is expected to come equipped with Google’s Tensor G3 chipset , which is also found in other devices in the Pixel 8 series. However, it is unlikely that there will be any improvements in its refresh rate (90Hz) or wireless charging (7.5 watts) capabilities. For better performance in these areas, you will have to spend a little more.
The Google Pixel 8a’s display is expected to remain the same size (6.1 inches diagonally), with some minor upgrades in terms of materials. Although the Pixel 7a uses Corning Gorilla Glass 3 for its cover glass, the Pixel 8a will likely feature Corning Gorilla Glass Victus, the same cover glass found on the Pixel 8.
Like the Pixel 7a, the Pixel 8a is expected to be only available with 128GB of storage. The Pixel 8 , by comparison, offers 128GB or 256GB of storage.
Google Pixel 8a: cameras Andy Boxall / Digital Trends The Pixel 8 and Pixel 8 Pro come with various camera updates, some of which could be included on the Pixel 8a. However, assume that most, if not all, of these features won’t make the leap.
Pixel 8a users may benefit from a larger ultrawide lens, which would improve Macro Focus. Additionally, the front-facing camera could now feature autofocus for the first time after being introduced on the Pixel 8 Pro. Best Take, a highly touted new camera software feature on the Pixel 8 and Pixel 8 Pro, could also be included on the Pixel 8a. Best Take automatically blends similar images to ensure everyone in a photo looks their best. Another new feature is Magic Editor, which is available on Google Photos. It uses AI to provide a unique and experimental editing experience.
It’s hard to say which of these features will make their way to the Pixel 8a, but it’s safe to assume that at least some of them will.
Google Pixel 8a: battery Smart Prix The Pixel 7a is equipped with a 4,385mAh battery, which is actually slightly smaller than the one featured in the Pixel 6a.
 A similar size adjustment may happen for the Pixel 8a, but the overall battery performance is not expected to change.
Google promises a day’s worth of battery life with the Pixel 7a, and this is likely to remain the same with the next model. The Pixel 7a also supports 18W fast charging via cable and 7.5W wireless charging; these features are also expected to be retained.
Google Pixel 8a: software and updates Joe Maring / Digital Trends A clean version of Android 14 is expected to grace the Pixel 8a, just like the Pixel 8 and Pixel 8 Pro. What isn’t known is whether Google will promise seven years of operating system updates, feature drops, and overall support, as it does with these more expensive handsets.
Like the Pixel 7 and Pixel 7 Pro , the Pixel 7a includes five years of software support, which consists of three years of Android OS updates and five years of monthly security updates.
Editors' Recommendations OnePlus 12: news, rumored price, release date, and more I did a Pixel 8 and OnePlus 11 camera test. Picking a winner wasn’t easy Google’s Pixel phones are in trouble The Google Pixel 8 just got its first update. Here’s what’s new I tested the Pixel 8 Pro and iPhone 15 Pro. This one has the best camera Android Google Google Pixel Tech News Mobile Google introduced an updated charging system on the Google Pixel Watch 2 that juices up the battery inside at a quicker pace. It's also more secure than the previous charger and doesn't get quite as hot. For the most part, it's a good upgrade.
But it seems some users of the smartwatch are facing charging woes. Multiple users are reporting that the supplied charging kit won’t fill up the second-generation Pixel Watch's battery.
What's wrong with the Pixel Watch 2 Mobile The Google Pixel 8 Pro is a fine phone at $999. It’s got a great display, a good design, a bunch of AI features, and thr promise of updates over a long period of time.
I’ve been using the phone since launch and am getting accustomed to the new Google Photos features like Best Take and the improved Magic Eraser. I like the fact that I can get a great group photo without worrying if someone’s eyes are closed or isn’t ready for the photo. But the experience of using these features isn't what I was expecting.
It’s all about the experience Mobile Hi, my name is Joe, and I have a cloud storage problem.
It all happened this past Saturday. It was a rainy and chilly fall afternoon, I was getting ready to meet up with some friends for drinks, and there I was — sitting at my Mac mini, signing up for a 2TB Google One plan so I could store all of my pictures in Google Photos.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
