Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Phones Best Tablets Tesla Phone Download Android 14 Best Android Phones Home Mobile Features I’ve been using Android 14 for months. Here’s why you’re going to love it By Nadeem Sarwar Close Nadeem Sarwar / Digital Trends A new generation of Pixel phones is hitting the shelves, and they boast the latest version of Android 14 out of the box. I’ve been testing the latest version of Google’s mobile OS since the first beta builds arrived, and so far, the experience has been pretty smooth sailing.
Android 14 has a cool trick for your computer Tasteful customization options Great accessibility updates A solid start that saves more for the future Surprisingly, Android 14 doesn’t try to reinvent the wheel in terms of user-facing changes. The UI looks identical to Android 13, and there aren’t many changes that would qualify as a must-have reimagination of the phone experience. But there are a few updates that make it worth the brief “wow” journey of digging into a yearly OS upgrade.
Android 14 has a cool trick for your computer Nadeem Sarwar / DigitalTrends At the top of the Android 14 improvement list is the ability to use your phone as a webcam. I absolutely love the convenience. The whole process takes less than a minute, and all you need is a USB cable and a few clicks to turn your phone into a high-resolution webcam for video meetings.
The entire setup pipeline is glitch-free. You can set up the resolution output depending on the bandwidth, zoom in or out without losing a ton of details, and switch between lenses with a single tap. The only effort you need to add from your end is finding a stand or a clip-on accessory to host your phone.
Tasteful customization options Nadeem Sarwar / Digital Trends I also enjoy the new home screen and lock screen customization options introduced by Android 14. There are new clock styles to pick from, and you can easily check how they fit in with a particular theme by just swiping them against the existing preset.
You can tweak the clock style color and size and also see a live preview of how the adjustments look on the lock screen and home screen side by side. I particularly love the new monochrome theming option, which extends all the way to the pre-installed apps’ UI.
The theming effects run subtly deep. Depending on the color profile you pick, the back gesture arrow might appear sporting a contrasting color tone that is easy to spot and breaks the monotony. The same goes for system-level apps like Settings, Phone, Calculator, and more.
Nadeem Sarwar / Digital Trends Android 14 also lets you adjust the two lock screen shortcut buttons placed in either corner at the bottom edge. You can pick from frequently used tools like quick-launch for the camera, flashlight, code scanner, and smart home controls tied to the Google Home app. Just like iPhones, you need to long-press these shortcuts instead of a single tap.
Another thoughtful addition is that you can access the customization dashboard right from the lock screen. Of course, you will have to go past the authentication wall before you can go all creative with UI customization. Google is also making it easier to access app shortcuts this time around.
Previous Next 1 2 Nadeem Sarwar / Digital Trends Nadeem Sarwar / Digital Trends Now, when you long-press on an app’s icon, the system-level app actions (info, pause, etc.) sit in a top cluster, while in-app actions, like launching a new tab in Chrome, sit in the lower deck. If you’re a fan of turning your LED flash into a notification alert, Android 14 has got you covered there as well.
While that is convenient, Android 14 extends the courtesy to your phone’s main display as well. Just pick up a color, and the next time a notification arrives, the screen will flash in that particular hue. It’s not ideal for folks who get distracted easily, but I’m glad that it’s at least an option for the disciplined humans among us.
Great accessibility updates Nadeem Sarwar / Digital Trends Android 14 also puts emphasis on accessibility. These features don’t run as deep as what you get with iOS 17 , but they certainly have been implemented well. The Magnifier system lets you pinch and zoom into any area of the screen, but you can choose if you want that kind of control or to just keep it simple with full-screen magnification.
It certainly comes in handy that you can choose between an on-screen digital shortcut, volume button press, or triple tap on-screen gesture to bring up the magnifier. There’s also a dedicated dashboard for Hearing Devices that offers a direct route for quick pairing with hearing aid devices.
To further ease access for the target audience, Google has also built in a shortcut pathway that can be triggered using the volume buttons or by tapping a persistent on-screen shortcut.
Nadeem Sarwar / Digital Trends On the security side of things, Android 14 adopts Health Connect at the system level, which means it receives updates directly via the Play Store. It puts all your health data in a single place. Aside from in-house tools like Google Fit and Fitbit, it also plays well with all major third-party ecosystems such as Peloton, Whoop, and more.
The best part about the system is the sheer level of control it offers. For example, if an app collects data from six biosensors, but you only want to save heart rate data, you can disable the rest using an array of dedicated toggles. Plus, every time a health app shares your data, a notification offers a detailed breakdown of the same.
A solid start that saves more for the future Tushar Mehta / Digital Trends There are a few other changes that you won’t see on phones.
Android 14 puts a special emphasis on how apps scale on large-screen devices like tablets and foldable phones. You can, of course, force a portrait-first app in full-screen tablet mode. Instagram, for example, looks acceptable in a landscape view.
After playing around with Android 14 for a few weeks, I have come to the conclusion that it doesn’t try to reinvent the wheel. Instead, the focus is on small, but thoughtful improvements. Interestingly, Android 14 feels surprisingly refined for an update fresh out of the development kitchen. The transitions seem smoother, and the animations feel more refined.
I would gladly take this subtle refinement over an update that is heavy on features, but serves as a stuttering mess. Notably, it appears that Google has saved the best of Android 14 for the coming months with feature drops. Sadly, most of those futuristic AI-driven tricks will be confined to the Pixel 8 range due to hardware limitations.
Still, if you have a phone that gets the Android 14 update, it’s well worth downloading. It’s not a revolutionary update from Google, but it’s one with a lot of good to offer — and I think you’ll be quite happy with it.
Editors' Recommendations I’ve had the Google Pixel 8 Pro for a month. Here’s why I’m keeping it This is the fastest phone and laptop charger I’ve ever used. Here’s why you need it I’ve been using iOS 17 for months. These 4 new things are the best I used an Android phone with ChatGPT built-in — and I loved it Why I went back to the iPhone 14 Pro Max (and why I still love it) Android Features Google Google Pixel Mobile I find myself unable to use smartphones at night because they strain my eyes, which in turn causes headaches. If you are anything like me, you probably dislike having a smartphone screen in front of you in conditions when light is dim ot nonexistent. Or worse, you might have developed Pulse-Width Modulation (PWM) sensitivity, which can make you feel nauseous when using a phone at night. This is solved by the Honor 90.
I’m privileged to have multiple phones at my disposal, and the Honor 90 has become my go-to phone for nighttime reading and research because of its 3840Hz PWM display. But to understand the solution, we must first understand PWM dimming and its effects on human eyes.
What is PWM dimming, and how does the Honor 90 help? Mobile Lord, this is painful to see to the tune of $1,800! JerryRigEveything Google’s first foldable phone, the Google Pixel Fold, has left a pretty solid first impression. Not just because it’s a Pixel — with all its camera and software goodness — that can also pull off a foldable trick. Instead, Google really surprised with sleek hardware that is exquisitely thin.
Mobile When Steve Jobs took the stage on January 9, 2007, to unveil the original iPhone, everyone was amazed at the little piece of technology he held in his hand. Then in June 2007, people could buy and get their hands on the very first iPhone — and the scope of the cell phone industry changed forever.
I personally didn't get the original iPhone on launch day, believe it or not. Instead, I received it as a birthday present in 2008 (my very first Apple product), but my clumsy self eventually dropped it on cement four months later, and the screen shattered. But instead of getting it fixed, I figured I might as well just get the iPhone 3G since it was just a few weeks away from release.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
