Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Phones Best Tablets Tesla Phone Download Android 14 Best Android Phones Home Mobile Features Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? 10 amazing AI wallpapers I made with the Google Pixel 8 By Christine Romero-Chan Close Christine Romero-Chan / Digital Trends At its Made by Google event on October 4, Google revealed the next generation of the Pixel portfolio of products. The stars of the show were the Google Pixel 8 and the Google Pixel 8 Pro.
How to use the Pixel 8’s AI wallpaper feature AI wallpapers I made on the Google Pixel 8 Infinite possibilities For the Pixel 8 , we now have a beautiful, 6.2-inch OLED display that reaches a 120Hz refresh rate, which is a nice bump over the 90Hz of the Google Pixel 7.
 The Pixel 8 Pro received more significant upgrades, including a new 6.7-inch OLED display with a 120Hz refresh rate that can reach 2,400 nits of peak brightness outdoors (making it the brightest screen on any smartphone ). It also has a new 48MP ultrawide lens that joins the 50MP main camera and 48MP telephoto sensor. Both Pixel 8 devices also have the latest Tensor G3 chip for power and efficiency.
This year, Google has also added more AI features to the Pixel 8 lineup.
 There’s the new Best Take feature, which takes a series of photos with a focus on people’s faces. The result is a single image created by swapping out a person’s face from one image and replacing it with a better one from another. There’s also the Magic Editor, which allows you to move your subjects, change the sky, and more.
Oh, yeah — and we also have AI wallpapers.
Yes, you read that correctly. You can generate your own AI wallpapers for the Pixel 8 and Pixel 8 Pro directly on your phone. It’s a fascinating feature, and it’s one I’ve had a lot of fun using.
How to use the Pixel 8’s AI wallpaper feature So, how can you create your own AI-generated wallpapers on the Pixel 8 and Pixel 8 Pro? It’s pretty easy! Launch Settings on your Pixel 8 or Pixel 8 Pro.
Scroll down and select Wallpaper and style.
Select More wallpapers.
Select AI wallpaper.
Select a T heme to get started.
There will be a prompt with underlined words. Select those words to bring up more options to choose from to make a custom creation.
Select Create wallpaper or Inspire me and watch the Pixel 8 come up with something completely unique for you.
You’ll get a few different generated wallpapers with each prompt, and you can swipe to see them all. If you’re happy with one, select the checkmark in the upper-right corner to apply it as your lock screen or home screen (or both) wallpaper.
It’s important to note that any AI-generated wallpaper you choose to use will be saved under a section called “Your AI wallpapers” on the AI wallpaper screen. This lets you quickly access the ones you’d like to use at any time.
AI wallpapers I made on the Google Pixel 8 If you were expecting a full-blown AI art generator like DALL-E, you’re going to be a little disappointed. The AI wallpaper generator on the Pixel 8 and Pixel 8 Pro is limited to 12 themes, with each theme having its own specific prompt with limited customization choices.
Given what you have to work with, though, it’s a chance to create some very unique wallpaper images that no one else will have. Thankfully, the Pixel 8 will save any AI-generated wallpaper that you choose to use so that you can use it again in the future if you want.
I played around with the AI wallpaper generator a bit, and these are some of my favorites. While I may get these results on my Pixel 8 Pro, you may get something else entirely different. That’s the fun with the AI wallpaper generator — you never know what you’re gonna get! Mineral (pastel bismuth) Christine Romero-Chan / Digital Trends I’m no geologist, but minerals are fascinating to look at, especially when you get up close to them. For this one, I chose “bismuth” with “pastel” hues, and the resulting image is a stunning one with a lot of straight lines and texture, a blurred background, and vibrant pastel shades. I personally love it! Texture (pink sand) Christine Romero-Chan / Digital Trends A good texture can make a great wallpaper. Here, I chose “pink” and “sand” to get some varying results. This one is the best of the four that it gave me, with two shades of pink for a wispy sand texture.
The other ones I was given didn’t look great, as they didn’t seem to be fully high resolution and instead looked like a badly compressed image. Some of the results also didn’t even look like sand at all.
Bloom (cherry blossoms) Christine Romero-Chan / Digital Trends I love cherry blossoms! Under the Bloom theme, I chose “cherry blossoms” with “pink” and “waterfall” to create this image with a pink background and cherry blossoms on the two sides, which makes for a great lock screen wallpaper with the clock in the middle. However, I feel like the image quality definitely isn’t high resolution, as the AI artifacts make it look compressed.
Soft-focus (pink azaleas) Christine Romero-Chan / Digital Trends Who doesn’t love a good soft-focus photo? With this theme, you can pick from a few different flowers and insects and pick a hue. For this one, I chose “azaleas” and “pink” hues. I did get some results that looked like a pink blob of nothingness and not flowers, and it actually took a few attempts to get anything that looked like proper azaleas. And even once I did, the image quality still seemed like a low-quality JPEG.
Translucent (pink desert rose) Christine Romero-Chan / Digital Trends I was a bit curious about what the translucent theme would result in. Here, I picked “desert rose” and “pink.” I got pretty good results in the first attempt, and they all are basically a close-up macro image of a desert rose against a solid pink background.
It was hard to pick just one. For the most part, the images for this prompt looked quite sharp and crisp in quality, rather than a badly compressed image like many of the other results I got.
Imaginary (pink and purple rhodochrosite UFO) Christine Romero-Chan / Digital Trends The imaginary theme is a wild one. You pick an object, a material, and a color theme and get an … interesting result. Here, I picked “UFO,” “rhodochrosite,” and a “pink and purple” color theme. It seems that you may get fewer results for these than other themes. The resulting image definitely puts your selections together, and well, I’m not sure why I would want this as my wallpaper.
Imaginary (blue and indigo felt building) Christine Romero-Chan / Digital Trends As I was playing around with the Imaginary theme, I noticed some of the materials you could choose from were “felt” or “chenille” and other furry materials. I was intrigued by this and decided to give it a go with a “building” in “blue and indigo” shades.
I definitely got a weird-looking hut covered in furry felt in blue and indigo. It looks like something you’d see in a fictional world, and hey, if that’s something you want as a wallpaper, then the Pixel 8 can help you create such distinctive images.
Painting -classicist-style robot cityscape) Christine Romero-Chan / Digital Trends Another fun one is the Painting theme, which also gets some cool results like the Imaginary theme. Here, I chose a painting of a “cityscape” and “robots” in a “classicist” style and got some distinctive results. I’m not an artist, but it definitely looks like a digital painting, and hey, it has the things I asked for, right? Painting (19th-century post-impressionist flying cars and ocean) Christine Romero-Chan / Digital Trends Like Imaginary, you can get wild with the painting options. Here I chose “vast ocean” and “flying cars” in a “19th century post-impressionist” style. I definitely got ocean and flying cars in a style that reminds me of Vincent Van Gogh’s “Starry Night.” If you want to get weird with your wallpapers, then Painting (and Imaginary) is the way to go.
X-ray (vibrant butterfly wings) Christine Romero-Chan / Digital Trends I’ve never really thought about using X-ray images as wallpapers, but hey, that’s an option for that here. You have the ability to pick from a wide variety of different plants, insects, and other objects from nature and then choose a color. For this, I picked “butterfly wings” in “vibrant.” You can absolutely tell that these are butterfly wings, though some results seemed a lot more abstract. I didn’t think I’d care for the X-ray theme, but it’s a standout for me.
Infinite possibilities Joe Maring / Digital Trends I’m not sure if anyone was asking for an AI wallpaper generator with their smartphone, but Google apparently thinks that it was worth adding in the Pixel 8 and Pixel 8 Pro. And even if you don’t have one of Google’s latest Pixels, the AI wallpaper tool will be coming to all Android 14 devices later on.
You’re not going to get great results 100% of the time when using the AI wallpaper generator, and sometimes it will take multiple attempts before you find something good. Thankfully, if you do find a good one and set it as your wallpaper, it gets saved for you for quick access later. Unfortunately, though, if there are multiple results you like from one batch, you can only save whichever one you use, and the rest are lost.
Is the AI wallpaper tool the reason to buy a Pixel 8 or Pixel 8 Pro? No, but it is a fun, quirky addition to the phones — and is very much peak Google.
Editors' Recommendations The iPad is going to get an amazing new feature in 2024 I did a Pixel 8 and OnePlus 11 camera test. Picking a winner wasn’t easy 4 AI features I want in my next iPhone Google’s Pixel phones are in trouble The Google Pixel 8 just got its first update. Here’s what’s new Android Features Google Google Pixel Mobile Every fall, there’s lots of pumpkin spice, spooks, and flagship phones from Google and Apple. This year, Google released the powerful Google Pixel 8 Pro, while Apple upped the ante with the iPhone 15 Pro.
While the Google Pixel 8 Pro is more comparable to the iPhone 15 Pro Max, we wanted to see how it would do against the smaller iPhone 15 Pro as well. After all, the regular iPhone 15 Pro is still considered a flagship, and both phones share the same $999 price tag.
Mobile Google introduced an updated charging system on the Google Pixel Watch 2 that juices up the battery inside at a quicker pace. It's also more secure than the previous charger and doesn't get quite as hot. For the most part, it's a good upgrade.
But it seems some users of the smartwatch are facing charging woes. Multiple users are reporting that the supplied charging kit won’t fill up the second-generation Pixel Watch's battery.
What's wrong with the Pixel Watch 2 Mobile The Google Pixel 8 Pro is a fine phone at $999. It’s got a great display, a good design, a bunch of AI features, and thr promise of updates over a long period of time.
I’ve been using the phone since launch and am getting accustomed to the new Google Photos features like Best Take and the improved Magic Eraser. I like the fact that I can get a great group photo without worrying if someone’s eyes are closed or isn’t ready for the photo. But the experience of using these features isn't what I was expecting.
It’s all about the experience Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
