Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Phones Best Tablets Tesla Phone Download Android 14 Best Android Phones Home Mobile Reviews Google Pixel 6 review: Don’t overlook the cheaper Pixel By Andy Boxall Close $599.00 Great camera Screen is colorful and vibrant Latest Android 12 software Years of software updates Flaky connectivity Fast charger not included The Pixel 6 Pro is Google’s heavy hitter in its new smartphone lineup for 2021, but the Pixel 6’s lower price — $599 rather than $899 — makes it considerably more tempting for most people. But now that we know how good the Digital Trends’ Editors’ Choice-winning Pixel 6 Pro is, does the cheaper version still make sense given the hardware trade-offs? Design Screen Camera Software Performance and connectivity Battery Price and availability Our take Design If you only give them a cursory glance, there’s not much to differentiate the Pixel 6 from the Pixel 6 Pro, especially if they’re both facedown. Look more closely, and it’s obvious which is which, as the Pixel 6 has a smaller section of body above the camera module compared to the 6 Pro. If the light’s right, you’ll see the Pixel 6’s camera module doesn’t contain a periscope zoom camera, either.
Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Pick the Pixel 6 up, and the flat screen design gives it a more “classic” in-hand feel, and there’s actually better grip than with the curvy Pixel 6 Pro. I haven’t had to juggle the Pixel 6 as much as I did with the Pixel 6 Pro, and I’ve generally felt less likely to accidentally drop it. The Pixel 6 is made of glass and metal, though, which means it still slips about on many surfaces. It’s also quite substantial at 8.9mm thick and 207 grams.
The Google Pixel 8 just got its first update. Here’s what’s new There might be something wrong with the Google Pixel Watch 2 Google Pixel 8a: news, rumored price, release date, and more In fact, it’s barely any smaller than the Pixel 6 Pro — just flatter — and this introduces a bit of a problem. While the Pixel 5 was compact by modern standards, neither Pixel 6 phones are svelte, and if you’re looking for a pocket-friendly, lightweight Google phone to replace your Pixel 3 or Pixel 4 , then there’s nothing in the Pixel 6 lineup for you. It’s the Pixel 5a (if you’re in the U.S. or Japan) or going for a different brand altogether.
Andy Boxall/Digital Trends The color of the phone in my photos is called Seafoam, and the minty tone is very pretty indeed. I’ve used the phone for a few weeks now, and it has spent time inside and outside of bags and pockets, but has not been treated too badly. I have noticed a few surface scratches on the Gorilla Glass 6 rear panel, which can be felt with your fingertip, but they’re only seen when the light catches it in the right way. Oddly, the Pixel 6 Pro hasn’t collected these marks, despite being made of the same materials.
Previous Next 1 3 Pixel 6 Pro (left), Pixel 6 Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Pixel 6 Pro (left), Pixel 6 Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Pixel 6 Pro (bottom), Pixel 6 Andy Boxall/Digital Trends I would have liked the Pixel 6 to be smaller to really be a clearer choice from the Pixel 6 Pro, but otherwise, the design is a winner. It has character and visual appeal, the body-wide camera module looks cool, and the colors are inspired, stupid names aside. It’s a very different and welcome approach this time around compared to Google’s dreary designs on previous Pixels.
Screen The other defining design aspect of the Pixel 6 is its screen, which is flat compared to the curved Pixel 6 Pro. It measures 6.4 inches and has a 20:9 aspect ratio and a 2400 x 1080 pixel resolution, plus a 90Hz refresh rate. It supports HDR and has an always-on screen. This is a lower specification than the 6 Pro, but in reality, the two aren’t that different.
Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Before going into more detail, it interestingly does not seem to suffer from the same problems I encountered with the Pixel 6 Pro’s 120Hz refresh rate. Scrolling is smoother in the apps, which were problematic on the Pixel 6 Pro at 120Hz, although maybe not quite as smooth as on other phones. It still doesn’t feel quite right but is considerably better than the Pixel 6 Pro.
The refresh rate issues were the only blight against the Pixel 6 Pro’s screen, which is otherwise glorious. So, can the Pixel 6’s lower-spec screen keep up? It’s obviously not quite so pin-sharp due to the lower resolution, but you do have to go looking for the difference. Watching video shows it’s a tiny bit cooler than the deliciously natural and warm Pixel 6 Pro screen, but it takes a few minutes of careful study to see the difference.
Andy Boxall/Digital Trends The screen is really beautiful and a high point of the Pixel 6, but it’s not flawless. It’s let down by the bezels and the overall flatness. There will be those who don’t mind the flat screen, but for me, it (along with the 20:9 aspect ratio) makes it look cheap and aged, and the bezels are quite substantial, especially on the chin. The auto brightness can be dim-witted, and the overall brightness isn’t that high, either. I can still see it in sunlight (well, the U.K.’s mostly pitiful sunlight), but it requires maximum brightness, making me question its ability if I went to a place with proper sun.
Andy Boxall/Digital Trends The in-display fingerprint sensor is more reliable and slightly more accurate than the one in the Pixel 6 Pro. I’ve not had to reregister my fingerprint in an effort to make it work more consistently, and I’ve been able to use the PIN less as well. Google says enhanced security measures make the sensor slower to use than some others, but I’ve had different experiences across both phones, so I’m not sure whether this is really the case. For me, the Pixel 6’s fingerprint sensor is better to use and live with each day than the one on the Pixel 6 Pro.
Camera If you want Google’s best camera, you have to buy the Pixel 6 Pro, but the Pixel 6 still has the same main 50-megapixel, f/1.85 aperture camera and 12MP wide-angle camera with a 114-degree field of view. It does not have the 48MP telephoto zoom camera. The selfie camera is also different, with the Pixel 6 making do with a fixed-focus 8MP camera in the hole-punch cutout.
Andy Boxall/Digital Trends With the same main camera, you’d expect photos to be identical between the two phones, but there are some unexpected differences. Not better or worse, just a slight change in color tone and balance — and not all the time. However, in all my comparisons, it was the Pixel 6 Pro that took the better photos, suggesting it’s more than just changes in the light, angle, or environment. Take a look at the gallery below to see what I mean.
There’s no real need for concern, though, as the Pixel 6’s main camera is excellent. Take a look at our Pixel 6 Pro review for more details on it and the wide-angle camera. The Pixel 6 has the same Action Pan and Long Exposure camera modes as the Pixel 6 Pro, and you can use Magic Eraser in Google Photos , too. Its lower price means a telephoto camera hasn’t been included; Google’s digital zoom, which shoots at up to 7x, is on offer instead. It’s decent for digital zoom, but the 6 Pro’s optical telephoto camera is of better quality, which makes it more versatile.
Previous Next 1 15 Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Wide-angle Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Wide-angle Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Action Pan Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Long Exposure Andy Boxall/Digital Trends How about the selfie camera? Despite the technical differences between them, both the 6 and 6 Pro take decent and quite similar-looking selfies, with the Pixel 6 producing slightly warmer skin tones and a stronger contrast generally, but both providing a similar level of detail. I prefer the Pixel 6 Pro’s brighter image and wider field of view, but there’s little in the Pixel 6’s selfie that couldn’t be fixed with a filter. The Pixel 6 and Pixel 6 Pro’s Real Tone feature improves the way it exposes and balances photos of people with darker skin, something no other phone camera can claim.
Previous Next 1 8 Pixel 6 Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Pixel 6 Pro Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Pixel 6 Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Pixel 6 Pro Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Pixel 6 Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Pixel 6 Pro Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Pixel 6 Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Pixel 6 Pro Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Yes, the Pixel 6 Pro is the smartphone to buy if you’re really into photography, but if you just want a capable camera for everyday snaps, the Pixel 6 will more than suffice. What’s impressive is how accurately and effortlessly it captures great photos, rarely disappointing, no matter the situation or time of day. I also compared the Pixel 6 Pro’s camera to the Apple iPhone 13 Pro and to the Samsung Galaxy S21 Ultra , so take a look to get a good idea of just how good the camera is.
Software The Pixel 6 has Android 12 , making it as up-to-date as Android phones get. I talk about the software experience in detail in the Pixel 6 Pro review and suggest you look there for insights into the wonderful Material You design. What I will note here is how much I like the always-on screen, which very helpfully shows a large clock and notification details, and also the general speed of the software.
Previous Next 1 5 Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Option to choose accent colors based on the wallpaper Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Andy Boxall/Digital Trends It’s very fast throughout, but it’s the larger buttons, clearer menus, and integration of Google Assistant that help you refine your workflow. I’ve even gotten used to telling Assistant to turn off the phone, rather than mess around with the repurposed power button. There are a few shortcuts that speed things up, including a double press of the power button to activate the camera from the lock screen, and Quick Tap, where a tap of the rear panel can activate a chosen feature. I’ve used it as an accurate and convenient way to call up Google Assistant.
Special mention should also be made about Google’s Assistant Typing, where you can speak aloud pretty much any message, anywhere in the operating system, and the phone understands. You can even send messages with your voice, offering a completely hands-free experience. It’s highly accurate and very fast, making it useable every day.
The Pixel 6 has Android 12, making it as up-to-date as Android phones get.
Any problems? The setup process took a few tries to get right, a very unusual occurrence, and once I was finally into Android 12, the performance wasn’t quite right for the first day or so. There were stutters and some app-opening bugs, but it all soon cleared up, and I’ve had no problem since. However, I’m also aware I may have been lucky with my general lack of issues on the Pixel 6. I’ve had emails and heard anecdotal evidence from people about bugs and other problems that portray the Pixel experience as less polished than would seem appropriate. This inconsistency is a concern, but it’s difficult to quantify, although I do seem to have heard more about Pixel 6 software bugs than on any other recent phone release.
Performance and connectivity The Pixel 6 has Google’s Tensor processor inside, along with 8GB of RAM, which is down from the 12GB inside the Pixel 6 Pro. During everyday use, I have not noticed any difference in speed or switching between apps, having come from the Pixel 6 Pro directly to the Pixel 6. Playing Asphalt 9: Legends posed no problem at all, and the phone only gets slightly warm to the touch even after an hour of play.
Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Far more frustrating is that my phone is plagued with connectivity issues. It’s the same set of problems I had with the Pixel 6 Pro, where it does not seem to successfully switch between Wi-Fi, 4G, or 5G very effectively. It will show signal, but the data connection will not work, and often not even a restart solves it. It’s frustrating, and although it seems to just get better on its own, I wanted to throw it across the room when it didn’t work.
I am using the U.K. version of the Pixel 6, which connects to a Sub-6 5G network, but in the U.S., a version with a mmWave 5G connection is also available. A 5G connection is a necessary addition to a phone as it increases its longevity, but because coverage is still sparse, you probably won’t benefit from it every day just yet.
Battery Google says to expect “beyond 24 hours use” from the 4,614mAh battery in the Pixel 6, and this is about right. If I use the phone normally — emails, messages, calls, photos, and social networking — mostly on Wi-Fi with some 4G, and turn it off overnight, it’ll easily last through two full days. I regularly ended the day with around 60% battery remaining after about three hours of screen time.
Andy Boxall/Digital Trends The Pixel 6 is equipped with wireless charging using the Qi standard and a 30-watt fast wired charging option. A charger isn’t included in the box, so you need to buy a 30W USB-PD 3.0 charger to get them, and even then, it’s behind the competition. It’s an unfortunate omission, as most other manufacturers have wired fast charging included even on midrange devices. OnePlus’ WarpCharge is part of the Nord 2 , for example.
Price and availability The Google Pixel 6 is available now, although it may be in short supply. It costs $599 in the U.S. or 599 pounds in the U.K.
Our take If the Pixel 6 was the same overall size as the Pixel 5 , it would have wowed me even more than it has. Because it’s not, all the design alterations (a flat screen and fewer curves) do is emphasize this is just the cheaper, lower-class version of a better phone. It’s not a phone that will suit someone with different preferences, just one that will appeal to a different wallet. That’s fine, but it’s also a wasted opportunity. Otherwise, you’re left with the Pixel 5a if you want a smaller Google phone, but again, only in the U.S. and Japan.
If you buy the cheaper Pixel 6 instead of the Pixel 6 Pro, all you’re really missing out on is the better camera. Otherwise, I’ve found the software and performance to be basically the same, problems and all. The battery life is decent at up to two days, plus it has all the durability and software updates you need for it to be a lasting purchase. The screen may have different specs, but most of the time, you won’t notice the resolution or refresh rate difference. Happily, and perhaps bizarrely, the fingerprint sensor somehow manages to be better than the one on the 6 Pro.
The Pixel 6 Pro’s higher price is reflected in its camera, its design, and the truly beautiful screen. If both are within your budget and you’re unsure which to get, we’d recommend the Pixel 6 Pro every time. However, the Pixel 6 isn’t that far behind if you aren’t serious about the camera, and at $599, it represents excellent value. What a shame it’s not substantially more compact than its more expensive sibling.
Is there a better alternative? For around the same price as the Google Pixel 6, you could choose the Samsung Galaxy S21 , the OnePlus 9 , or the Galaxy A52 5G.
 All have key advantages, including a high refresh rate screen, fast security methods, fast charging, and good cameras. All three phones represent good value, even the Galaxy S21, which can be found for a lower price than at launch, but none can match the Pixel 6’s camera.
If you’re in the U.K., also consider the OnePlus Nord 2 if you want to spend a little less, and take a look at the Realme GT , too. Both have great designs, plus the Nord 2 has fast charging, while the Realme GT has the top Qualcomm Snapdragon 888 processor.
How long will it last? Aside from the standard one-year warranty, Google’s software commitment means the Pixel 6 will receive major Android updates until October 2024, and security updates until October 2026. This means by buying the Pixel 6 (or the Pixel 6 Pro), you will receive updates for longer than any other Android smartphone currently available.
The phone has an IP68 water-resistance rating, Gorilla Glass Victus over the screen, and Gorilla Glass 6 on the rear. The chassis is made of metal. Despite the general toughness provided by these features, we recommend a case as the phone is quite slippery and has already suffered from small scratches on the back. Buy the Pixel 6, and you shouldn’t have to consider upgrading for the next three years.
Should you buy it? Yes. If you don’t prioritize the camera or a curved screen, the Pixel 6 does almost everything the Pixel 6 Pro does for less money.
Editors' Recommendations Google is finally fixing an annoying issue with its Pixel phones The best Google Pixel 8 Pro cases in 2023: 20 best ones Don’t update your Pixel phone — a new Android update might break it Google Pixel 8 Pro users are finding weird ways to use the phone The best folding phones in 2023: the 6 best you can buy Google Phone Reviews Product Reviews Mobile Two of the brightest smartphone displays on the market are featured on the Google Pixel 8 Pro and the OnePlus Open. However, in the ever-changing world of technology, there is always something better on the horizon.
On Tuesday, October 24, Chinese-based OnePlus and its parent company, Oppo, will announce "a new dawn" for smartphone screens. According to messages posted on Weibo by OnePlus and Digital Chat Station, the announcement is that BOE will manufacture a 3,000-nit panel for smartphones, which could be a game changer for the smartphone market. The soon-to-be-revealed display will offer 1440p resolution and support 2160Hz pulse width modulation (PWM) dimming.
Mobile Google’s new Pixel phones started shipping last week but there are already concerns over an apparent issue with the display on the Pro version of the new device.
According to various reports, some owners of the Pixel 8 Pro are seeing a yellow or pink tint on parts of the screen -- usually near the top or sides -- which apparently only shows up only when the device’s Always On Display is activated.
Mobile The Google Pixel 8 has finally arrived, and if you are one of the many who have bought it, it’s high time to invest in a quality phone case to safeguard your device. A brand new phone is delicate and highly prone to damage, which can lead to a significant replacement cost. Purchasing a phone case is a wise decision to ensure the safety of your phone right from day one.
There are a variety of cases available on the market from some of the biggest brands that offer great protective features. Here, we have compiled a list of 15 of the best Google Pixel 8 cases that are currently available.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
