Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Phones Best Tablets Tesla Phone Download Android 14 Best Android Phones Home Mobile Features One year later, Magic Eraser is still the Google Pixel’s best party trick By Christine Romero-Chan Close When Google launched the Pixel 6 and Pixel 6 Pro , one of the standout features was Magic Eraser. It’s a relatively simple tool in the Photos app that allows you to remove people or objects that you don’t want in the background of an image. It’s one of the main reasons I wanted to check out a Pixel phone to begin with, because this is the kind of thing I wish Apple had done with iOS years ago.
It’s simple to use and works surprisingly great It’s definitely not a full Photoshop replacement Camouflage helps remove further distractions All phones should have Magic Eraser baked right in Since coming aboard here at Digital Trends, I’ve had the opportunity to check out Android devices, including the Google Pixel 6a and the new Pixel 7.
 I’m primarily an iPhone user with my iPhone 14 Pro , but I’ve been testing out Magic Eraser on the Pixel 7 to see if it’s all that it’s cracked up to be, even though the feature originally debuted on the Pixel 6 series. Here’s what I’ve found.
It’s simple to use and works surprisingly great Andy Boxall / Digital Trends One of the main reasons I wanted to try the Magic Eraser feature is because I have a ton of photos from Disneyland. As you’d imagine, Disneyland is a place that is pretty much impossible to not have people in the background of photos.
I have a Magic Key for Disneyland (aka an annual pass), so I go there frequently (sometimes just for photos), whether that’s my own photos or through Disneyland’s PhotoPass service. And unless you get lucky, there’s always someone in the background of what would otherwise be a perfect shot.
1.
Posing with Club 33 shopping bags in front of Disneyland castle.
2.
Magic Eraser was used to get rid of a few people in the background.
Since I got my hands on the Pixel 7, I’ve been transferring my photos from my iPhone 14 Pro to my Google Photos account for the sole purpose of editing them with Magic Eraser. I noticed that Google will give me editing suggestions as I browse through my photos, which I thought was nice, though it didn’t always pop up for images that I thought could use some Magic Eraser-ing. Regardless, I began to put that Magic Eraser tool to the test.
1.
Posing in front of the castle at Disneyland 2.
Magic Eraser used to remove background people On most of my images, Google’s artificial intelligence (AI) would automatically detect people and objects in the background once I hit the Magic Eraser button — and sometimes it wouldn’t. When it does magically detect those unwanted background objects though, I could see all of them highlighted, and with a single tap, I took them out of the picture.
1.
Enjoying a drink at the Magic Key Terrace in Disney California Adventure 2.
People in background removed with Magic Eraser I did notice that Magic Eraser would leave behind some items that the erased person would have, such as a stroller or balloon, and that’s when I manually tried to erase those objects left behind. When Magic Eraser had issues automatically detecting things to get rid of, it was easy enough to manually circle or highlight those unwanted objects myself.
1.
Duck at Disneyland looking for food 2.
Magic Eraser used to remove trash from ground Magic Eraser is also great for getting rid of minor imperfections in a photo — such as dust or debris, scratches and scuffs, stray hairs, or other small things you notice after the photo was taken. It’s a simple tool that allows for quick and easy removal of unwanted objects in your photos. But like everything else in life, it’s best used in moderation.
It’s definitely not a full Photoshop replacement 1.
Christine poses in front of the headless horseman statue at Disney California Adventure 2.
Magic Eraser used to get rid of people in the background, but some digital artifacts remain As much as I like using Magic Eraser, I noticed that it is far from perfect. In my testing, I’ve found that it is great for removing a few, more prominent people in the background. However, since Disneyland is often full of people and you’ll have dozens of folks in the background at any given time, Magic Eraser seemed to struggle with those situations.
While I could erase those dozens of people, it left behind a lot of digital artifacts in those spots since they needed to be filled, so the final image looked worse than before. And even though we mostly look at our photos on the small screens of our smartphones, the noise that Magic Eraser left behind was far too much, and very noticeable from a single glance. As much as I want to rely on Magic Eraser, it certainly is not ready to replace a professional Photoshop job.
Camouflage helps remove further distractions Google added a Camouflage tool in conjunction with Magic Eraser with the Pixel 6a , and it eventually made its way to the rest of the Pixel lineup, including the newer Pixel 7 series. Camouflage helps pick up the slack where Magic Eraser isn’t the best tool for the job — this is especially true when background objects may overlap with other image elements, which often happens at Disneyland.
1.
Christine and her husband pose in front of the Walt and Mickey partner statue.
2.
Camouflage was used to alter the color of the clothing on the three people behind the statue. The bright white, red, and blue colors were desaturated to blend in to the background better.
I found Camouflage to be a good alternative for those moments when Magic Eraser just makes the end result look worse than I’d like. With Camouflage, instead of trying to remove an object entirely, it desaturates an object — making it blend into the background more and not distract from the subject. Though it really depends on the lighting in the photo, using Camouflage can sometimes be a better solution than using Magic Eraser itself to reduce distractions. I noticed Camouflage didn’t do much in bright daylight, but at night, it helped brightly colored clothing blend in better.
Again, Magic Eraser is far from perfect, but with the addition of Camouflage, it really helps turn it into a powerful mobile photo editing tool.
All phones should have Magic Eraser baked right in 1.
A side pose near a pole at Disney California Adventure 2.
People walking in the background removed with Magic Eraser After tinkering around with Magic Eraser for the past few weeks, I’ve grown to really appreciate having it on my Pixel 7. I wish that Apple would add such a feature on the iPhone , as that’s still my primary device and what I use the most for photos. Sure, Apple added the ability to remove the background in a photo with iOS 16 , but that’s far from the same thing as the Pixel’s Magic Eraser tool. Plus, I don’t exactly want to download a third-party app and pay a subscription to unlock such a functionality that Android devices have.
As much as Apple touts the camera features in the latest iPhone, it’s shocking that they still don’t have a Magic Eraser-like function. I can’t be the only one who wants this on the iPhone, right? Editors' Recommendations Google is finally fixing an annoying issue with its Pixel phones This one Google Pixel 8 Pro feature is driving me crazy There’s something about the Google Pixel 8 that worries me There’s a cheap Pixel phone you should buy, and it’s not the Google Pixel 8 Should you buy the Google Pixel 7 or wait for the Google Pixel 8? Android Features Google Google Pixel Mobile Google’s current-gen Pixel smartphones are rewarding from multiple perspectives. They don’t cost as dishearteningly much as Samsung or Apple flagships. You get a consistently impressive camera experience. Plus, the software is pristine Android with a ton of convenient tricks.
Where the Pixels falter is raw performance and some nagging chip-adjacent problems. It’s not entirely Google’s fault, either. But if you were hoping for a turnaround, you might want to revise your hope scheduling. According to The Information, the “first fully customized chip” from the Tensor division won’t be here until 2025.
Mobile When Steve Jobs took the stage on January 9, 2007, to unveil the original iPhone, everyone was amazed at the little piece of technology he held in his hand. Then in June 2007, people could buy and get their hands on the very first iPhone — and the scope of the cell phone industry changed forever.
I personally didn't get the original iPhone on launch day, believe it or not. Instead, I received it as a birthday present in 2008 (my very first Apple product), but my clumsy self eventually dropped it on cement four months later, and the screen shattered. But instead of getting it fixed, I figured I might as well just get the iPhone 3G since it was just a few weeks away from release.
Mobile Google’s first foldable, the Google Pixel Fold, is now available for everyone. Even though Google is a few years late to the game compared to other brands like Samsung, it’s better late than never, right? The Google Pixel Fold has received mostly positive reviews, including our own. But like any other foldable, it’s not without some issues. Since there are moving parts with foldable devices, there are more points of failure than a simple slab-style smartphone, especially as this category is still only in its infancy.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
