Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Phones Best Tablets Tesla Phone Download Android 14 Best Android Phones Home Mobile Features I revisited the Pixel 7 Pro. Now, I’m nervous about the Pixel 8 Pro By Andy Boxall Close Andy Boxall / Digital Trends For the last week, I’ve been using the Google Pixel 7 Pro again, and for the most part, it was the speedy, attractive, capable, enjoyable, and familiar device I remember.
The Pixel 7 Pro’s good reliability The Pixel 7 Pro’s bad reliability What do I want from the Pixel 8 Pro? But over the weekend, I began to think a lot about its reliability, both positively and negatively, and how this is the one word we should all be thinking about when the Pixel 8 series arrives in the very near future.
The Pixel 7 Pro’s good reliability Andy Boxall / Digital Trends When I want to take great photos, the Pixel 7 Pro is exactly the kind of phone I want to have with me. I’m only too familiar with the sinking feeling I get inside when I am aware a phone camera’s ability and the quality of its shots can’t match my creative expectations. Doubt creeps into my mind when I tap the shutter button on phones like this, as I fear what I see with my eyes and imagine in my mind won’t — or simply cannot — be replicated by the photo. The Pixel 7 Pro is not this phone at all.
This weekend, I visited a cars and coffee event, and I didn’t expect to take many photos at all as it had been poorly attended the last time I went,. But I was pleasantly surprised to see a great lineup upon arrival. I was, therefore, also pleased the Pixel 7 Pro was in my pocket at this time, as I knew the camera wouldn’t disappoint — and I could show off why I feel this way about it. A few weeks earlier, I would have come armed with the Xiaomi 13T Pro , and its unreliable camera definitely would have given me that sinking feeling.
Previous Next 1 10 Andy Boxall / Digital Trends Andy Boxall / Digital Trends Andy Boxall / Digital Trends Andy Boxall / Digital Trends Andy Boxall / Digital Trends Andy Boxall / Digital Trends Andy Boxall / Digital Trends Andy Boxall / Digital Trends Andy Boxall / Digital Trends Andy Boxall / Digital Trends It wasn’t the first time I have appreciated the dependable camera since picking the Pixel 7 Pro back up either, as I’d been out on an evening walk as the sun was setting and knew the Pixel 7 Pro would be perfect to capture the atmosphere. Sure enough, the photos taken on that evening, along with those of the cars at the subsequent event, came out exactly as I hoped.
I could spend some time editing and fine-tuning the photos, but I didn’t really have to do it. The Pixel 7 Pro’s photos are sharp, detailed, colorful, and wonderfully balanced without my interference. It’s the best kind of reliability.
The Pixel 7 Pro’s bad reliability Andy Boxall / Digital Trends Taking photos with the Google Pixel 7 Pro is a wonderful, reliable, dependable experience from beginning to end, and during normal use, the phone has been great too — whether it’s checking emails, browsing the web, or using social networks. I really have no complaints, and because the camera satisfies me creatively, it has been a fantastic phone to use again.
Except for one thing.
 And now, we come to the negative side of the Pixel’s reliability. It seems to have picked up a frustrating bug that sees it get quite hot. It doesn’t happen all the time, and it has been impossible to replicate the situation, but at times it will suddenly get warmer than I expect. For example, an hour of taking photos didn’t bother it, but as soon as I shot some video (less than a minute in total), it was noticeably hot in my pocket and remained that way for much longer than I would normally expect.
Andy Boxall / Digital Trends Yet, in an attempt to see if I could get the phone to do it again, it happily shot several minutes of Timelapse video with hardly any increase in temperature. Plugging the phone into a charger saw it get hotter than I’d have liked, but again, it’s not every time. It’s an odd situation and one that I didn’t notice the last time I used the Pixel 7 Pro with my SIM card inside for any length of time. A quick search online reveals I’m not the only one to find the Pixel 7 Pro has mysteriously begun to have some hot flashes.
The Pixel devices I’ve used in 2023 have been exceptionally reliable , and none that I have used have been plagued by the problems seen by others on the Digital Trends team — Mobile Editor Joe Maring and Mobile Writer Mark Jansen have been particularly unlucky — making this the first time I’ve personally noticed something that shouldn’t happen. The phone hasn’t become too hot to touch or overheated, but the unpredictability of the issue means I’m a little concerned it could happen. This poor reliability is what Google needs to change.
What do I want from the Pixel 8 Pro? Andy Boxall / Digital Trends The Pixel 8 and Pixel 8 Pro will be announced on October 4 , and as I think about what I want to see from Google’s latest Pixel models, I’m left with that one word in my mind: reliability. I want both a continuation of Google’s positive reliability in terms of its brilliant cameras, and an improvement in its reliability when it comes to consistently producing reliable phones and software.
There shouldn’t be such variation in device reliability from any modern smartphone, especially when it’s made by a company with Google’s resources and talent. Yet, that’s what we’ve seen from the Pixel 7 series since its launch. The sudden tendency of my phone to get hotter than I’d prefer shows it can happen at any time and to devices that were previously no problem at all. Perhaps I’m paying more attention to the Pixel 7 Pro and I’m hyper-aware of any possible issues, which may be why I’ve noticed the temperature increases. But if so, it’s only because I don’t fully trust it not to have issues.
This is not a good reputation to have, and a lack of trust will undoubtedly affect sales. This is a shame when the camera (and, for me, most of the time, the software too) is reliable in the best way possible. The word reliability should have been at the top of Google’s whiteboard when developing the Pixel 8 and underlined several times. It needs to continue making a dependable, outstanding camera, but this time it also has to put it inside an equally consistent, reliable phone that everyone can recommend without any caveats — or fear of what may happen in the future.
Editors' Recommendations I did a Pixel 8 and OnePlus 11 camera test. Picking a winner wasn’t easy 4 AI features I want in my next iPhone I’m anxious and excited about this bonkers, industry-changing phone chip I tested the Pixel 8 Pro and iPhone 15 Pro. This one has the best camera This one Google Pixel 8 Pro feature is driving me crazy Android Features Google Google Pixel Mobile Android 14 introduced a host of convenient additions to Google’s Pixel phones, but a recent minor update has utterly broken the storage system for some users. Specifically, owners of the Google Pixel 6, Google Pixel 6 Pro, and Google Pixel 6a who run multiple profiles on their phones are reporting that their phones no longer have access to the storage pipeline for the main profile.
That means users are locked out of accessing the stored media and find themselves unable to add new files as well. A few users have reported on Reddit and Google’s official community forum that they can’t even click images using the camera app because it flashes an insufficient storage warning message. A few others say trying to install an APK package also returns a similar storage writing roadblock.
Mobile Not long ago, it seemed that the Google Pixel 7a would be the last smartphone in Google's Pixel A series. However, recent rumors indicate that this may not be the case anymore.
As a result, we're likely to see the release of a Google Pixel 8a in the coming year. What can we expect from this new budget phone in terms of its specs, design, price, and more? Let's take a closer look at everything we know (so far) about the Google Pixel 8a.
Google Pixel 8a: release date Mobile Hi, my name is Joe, and I have a cloud storage problem.
It all happened this past Saturday. It was a rainy and chilly fall afternoon, I was getting ready to meet up with some friends for drinks, and there I was — sitting at my Mac mini, signing up for a 2TB Google One plan so I could store all of my pictures in Google Photos.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
