Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Phones Best Tablets Tesla Phone Download Android 14 Best Android Phones Home Mobile News Motorola just launched a new Android phone to take on the Pixel 8 By Nadeem Sarwar Close Digital Trends Motorola is bringing a new midrange device to the market, and this one not only undercuts the Google Pixel 8 by $100, but it also offers a few neat conveniences of its own. Say hello to the Motorola Edge (2023), a sleek phone that serves curved glass aesthetics and leather-clad build at a starting price of $599 in the U.S.
The looks of the latest Edge are familiar to its predecessors, but this one offers MediaTek’s Dimensity 7030 chipset paired with 8GB of RAM and 256GB of onboard storage. The phone runs Android 13, but Motorola won’t say how many OS updates it will get. Plus, there is no charging adapter in the retail box.
Motorola Up front is a 6.6-inch HDR-ready FHD+ (2400 x 1080 pixels) OLED display with a peak refresh rate of 144Hz and a maximum brightness output of 1,200 nits. The curved glass approach looks neat, and Motorola claims the Edge (2023) build is IP68 certified, which means it can handle occasional water splashes without frying its circuit board.
One of the biggest strengths of the phone is that it offers a 4,400mAh battery that supports 68W fast charging, over twice that of the Pixel 8.
 Motorola says 10 minutes of charging will be good enough for a full day’s use, but those metrics are subjective. Thankfully, you also get support for 15W wireless charging and the ability to share power with other devices in the same wireless fashion at a 5W rate.
10 years ago, this small Android phone changed smartphones forever The Google Pixel 8 just got its first update. Here’s what’s new I tested the Pixel 8 Pro and iPhone 15 Pro. This one has the best camera At the back is a 50-megapixel optically stabilized main camera with support for features such as Active Photos, Night Vision, and 4K capture at 30fps. The primary camera offers an impressively wide f/1.4 aperture and relies on 4-in-1 pixel binning to process light data on 2-micron super-pixels.
Motorola In simple words, it can let in more light and produce shots with increased detail and depth. The ultrawide camera relies on a 13-megapixel sensor which also takes digitally cropped macro shots, while selfie duties have been deputed to a 32-megapixel snapper.
The Motorola Edge (2023) costs $600 and is now available from the company’s official website, Amazon, and Best Buy. It comes in a sole Eclipse Black color with a vegan leather finish.
Digital Trends The latest Motorola offering seems like a value-centric phone for its asking price, but the competition is hotter than ever. Google’s Pixel 8 offers faster silicon, Android OS upgrades for the next seven years, and extremely good cameras married to feature-rich software.
Samsung’s Galaxy S23 FE also roams around in the same price bracket, and you can easily score a refurbished or discounted yesteryear mainline iPhone for that asking price.
Still, it’s worth keeping an eye on the Motorola Edge (2023) if you’re in the market for a phone under the $600 mark. We’ll be testing the Edge (2023) as soon as we can to see if it’s worth that amount of cash, so stay tuned for a full review coming soon.
Editors' Recommendations One of our favorite Android phones just got its own iMessage app Samsung just killed one of its most important Android phones MediaTek’s new chip just raised the bar for Android phones Don’t update your Pixel phone — a new Android update might break it Why this cheap folding phone from Motorola is a must buy Motorola Tech News Mobile Earlier this month, Samsung announced a slew of new products to end 2023 on a high note. Alongside some new tablets and a pair of earbuds, one of those new products was the Galaxy S23 FE. It looks a lot like the other S23 phones released earlier this year, but it has some lower specs and a cheaper price. When Samsung announced the S23 FE on October 3, it said the phone would be available for $600.
However, it looks like something changed between then and now. The Galaxy S23 FE officially went on sale on October 26, but it doesn't cost the $600 Samsung claimed it would. If you buy the phone from Samsung's website, you'll have to pay $630 for the base model with 128GB of storage — a seemingly random increase of $30. Samsung didn't previously confirm how much the 256GB variant would cost, but it's currently listed on Samsung's site for $690.
Mobile It’s a handsome orange phone. And a smartwatch. And a smart display. And it also looks like one of Microsoft’s Surface Arc mice. In fact, I also see a beautiful at-a-glance smart screen that can keep phone distractions at bay in a tent mode. Actually, all of those things are bundled into Motorola’s latest concept phone.
At the Lenovo Tech World 2023 gala, the Chinese electronics giant came out all guns blazing in terms of AI and hardware innovation, but nothing grabbed as many eyeballs as its bendable phone-smartwatch hybrid concept. And it looks like Motorola is very much looking at it as an Android device with a form factor that also chases wristwear versatility.
Mobile One of the most surprising additions to Google’s Pixel hardware in recent years is temperature sensing. The Google Pixel 8 Pro comes armed with a temperature sensor that can measure the temperature of objects simply by “scanning” them from an optimum distance within the five-centimeter range. Google says the sensor is good for “beverages, cooking pan, water temperature, and more.” The smartphone community, however, is seemingly hell-bent on relegating it to gimmick status. But average Pixel 8 Pro owners are finding cool ways to use it. As detailed in this Reddit post, one Pixel 8 Pro user was stuck in a stormy situation that took out the power supply for 36 hours, putting them in a quandary regarding the status of food items kept in an out-of-power refrigerator.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
