Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Phones Best Tablets Tesla Phone Download Android 14 Best Android Phones Home Mobile Products Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Best Google Pixel Fold cases: the 10 best ones you can buy By Peter Hunt Szpytek and Christine Romero-Chan Close It was years in the making, but Google has released its first foldable with the Google Pixel Fold.
 This sleek foldable from Google has a beautiful 5.8-inch cover display that opens up to reveal a 7.6-inch inner display, both of which are OLED and have a 120Hz refresh rate, so using it is fluid and smooth. It comes with Google's Tensor G2 chip inside, like the one in the Pixel 7 family, so it has fast performance with Android 13. And like other Pixels, the Pixel Fold has a powerful camera system that is only made better by the software.
But the Pixel Fold isn't cheap, as it starts at $1,800, so you'll want to protect that phone. And there are only two colors to choose from: Obsidian (black) and Porcelain (off-white). That's why you should get a good case for your Pixel Fold — to help protect that investment and also dress it up a bit! Here are the best Google Pixel Fold cases you can buy right now.
More Spigen Spigen Slim Armor Pro Case for Google Pixel Fold Best overall Pixel Fold case Tough and rugged protection Protects the hinge itself Open and easy access to buttons Premium finish adds grip Pricey Need all-over protection for your Pixel Fold? We don't blame you — that's an expensive phone! The Spigen Slim Armor Pro has an overall slim profile, but it completely covers your Pixel Fold in dual layers for protection from everyday wear and tear, as well as drops with air cushion technology.
This case also covers the hinge, so you don't get it scratched up. But while it's covered, it will still work flawlessly when you need to open it up. The only bad thing? It comes in your choice of colors, as long as it's black or black.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Casetify Impact Case for Pixel Fold Best design Pixel Fold case Wide variety of design options Lightweight Wireless charging compatible Only 4-foot drop protection Casetify cases are extremely popular thanks to the vast number of designs the company offers, and its high-impact cases are also relatively dependable for keeping your phone safe from drops. The Pixel Fold cases offer the same number of seemingly endless designs that Casetify is known for, however, it only has 4-foot drop protection.
While that will certainly keep the Pixel Fold safe from most drops, it might not fare well if knocked off a tall counter or dropped multiple times. If you're not too worried about big drops, however, Pixel Fold Casetify cases should be more than satisfactory to protect the phone from scratches and chips while sporting excellent designs.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Otterbox Thin Flex Series for Pixel Fold Best durable Pixel Fold case Highly durable Reputable brand Screen protection Bulky OtterBox's Thin Flex Pixel Fold case is a highly durable case that's meant to keep your foldable safe from several big falls. Known for its durability, the OtterBox Thin Flex also features raised edges around both the interior and exterior screens, meaning that the displays will avoid most full-screen shatters as they won't be taking the full force of a drop.
If you're looking to keep your Pixel Fold safe at all costs, OtterBox cases are the way to go. Because of their added protection, they also add a bit of bulk to the Fold — both when folded and when unfolded.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Pixel Fold Grip Case Best kickstand Pixel Fold case Kickstand Good color selections Edge grips Kickstand adds additional bulk Part of the appeal of the Pixel Fold is that, when unfolded, it can function as a mini-tablet of sorts. The Dbrand Pixel Fold Grip Case adds a kickstand that lets owners make the most of the increased interior screen size.
Perfect for streaming movies, displaying recipes, and reading e-books, the kickstand makes the Pixel Fold that much more convenient. The only problem is that the kickstand adds a bit of additional bulk to the side of the hinge when folded and means that the Pixel Fold can't lay flat when unfolded.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Google Pixel Fold Case Best official Pixel Fold case Official Google product Silicon case Raised edges Poor drop protection Google's official cases are sometimes hit-or-miss, but the official Pixel Fold silicon cases look to be pretty solid as long as you know what you're getting.
Because it's a silicon case, the official Google case isn't going to offer much in the form of drop protection. While the listing does say that it can protect from drops, a thin case like this pales in comparison to the protection of something like an OtterBox case or even the Impact cases from Casetify. The silicon design does offer a very comfortable grip for the phone, making it unlikely to slip from your hands, and provides plenty of protection to the Pixel Fold from small scratches and chips. Because it's an official Google product, you can also expect a snug fit.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Poetic Spartan Series Case for Google Pixel Fold Best heavy-duty Pixel Fold case Screen and body protection Kickstand Hinge protection Heavy and bulky The worry that many people have with foldables is that their hinges are weak spots that, if damaged, can completely total an otherwise perfectly functioning device. Luckily, the Poetic Spartan Series Case for the Pixel Fold completely covers the hinge with a strip of synthetic rubber and plastic.
In fact, the case covers the entire body of the phone as well as the screen, making it a good pick for anyone worried about damaging the foldable. While the case is able to protect the Pixel Fold from even the nastiest of falls, it does add an additional 3.52 ounces of weight to an already relatively weighty device. On top of that, the added bulk that the full-body protection adds makes a Pixel Fold equipped with the Poetic Spartan case tough to fit in pockets.
More Image used with permission by copyright holder KUGEW Magnetic Case for Google Pixel Fold Best leather Pixel Fold case MagSafe Compatible Classy leather design Kickstand Synthetic leather Leather cases for the Pixel Fold are currently few and far between, however, the Kugew Magnetic Case gives fans of leather cases a great option that also adds helpful MagSafe compatibility.
Because of the magnetic ring on the back of the case, owners are able to use the entire line of MagSafe products — such as wireless chargers, phone grips, and credit card holders. While the Kugew Magnetic Case is certainly stylish in the black and white color options, the leather quality itself may not be particularly high. It's a great case for anyone not looking to break the bank, as real leather can be extremely expensive, but just know that it won't age the same as real leather or have the exact same feel.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Spigen Ultra Hybrid Designed for Pixel Fold Case Best clear Pixel Fold case Clear color accents design of the phone Reputable brand Absorbs corner impacts No drop protection listed If you like how the Pixel Fold looks, you may be torn about getting a case for it. You want to protect the phone from drops and falls, but on the other hand, a case will also hide the Pixel Fold's natural beauty.
Luckily, the Spigen Ultra Hybrid case is clear and allows buyers to appreciate the design of the Pixel Fold without having to worry about chips and scratches. There's no drop protection listed for the case, however, it does say that it's designed to absorb impacts on the corners of the phone — the place where the most damage can be done. If you're looking for a simple case that protects the Pixel Fold while also not getting in the way of the original design, the Spigen Ultra Hybrid might be the case you're looking for as long as you know that it might not be the thing to save the foldable if it takes a particularly brutal tumble.
Spigen Spigen Thin Fit Case for Google Pixel Fold Best thin Pixel Fold case Slim and lightweight profile Durable Tactile buttons Scratch-resistant PC material Matte finish Not as much protection as other offerings Don't need super rugged protection but still want to keep that Pixel Fold safe from wear and tear? The Spigen Thin Fit is a good option. It's a hybrid structure of PC and TPU air cushion technology materials that will keep it safe from most drops. The matte finish coating gives it a nice feel and keeps the Pixel Fold pocket friendly.
Another nice thing? The buttons will remain tactile when you press them. It's mostly for those who want slim protection, though, so if you need more rugged protection — or even just want to keep the hinge safe — then check out some of the other cases above.
VSR Design VSR Design Terra Guard Modern Case for Google Pixel Fold Best value Pixel Fold case Ultra rugged protection Protection for the hinge Raised edges on cutouts keep camera and screens safe Reasonably priced Multiple color options Limited color options This case from VSR Design provides some of the most rugged and durable protection for a reasonable price. This case even protects the hinge on the Pixel fold, so you don't need to worry about getting that stainless steel hinge scratched up.
The dual-layered case has air cushion tech to keep it safe from drop impact, and there will be no scratches and scuffs from bumps, either. The raised edges on the camera cutout and screens will also keep it safe from any dirt and debris if you place the device down. VSR Design also offers a few different colors, though the only real standout is the light green if you aren't a fan of white or black.
Editors' Recommendations Google Pixel 8 and Pixel 8 Pro just had their prices slashed The best iPhone 15 case Black Friday deals you can buy now The best iPhone 15 Pro Max cases in 2023: the 20 best ones The best tablets in 2023: top 11 tablets you can buy now The best phone plans for one person in 2023: our 6 favorites Android Best Products Google Google Pixel Mobile Tablets may not be the hot new thing in 2023, but they're still excellent machines for streaming movies, playing games, or getting work done on the go. And while it seems like the best iPads dominate most of the tablet market, there are still plenty of excellent Android tablet options you should consider.
Whether you want an ultra-premium and superpowerful option, or something more affordable and compact, the Android tablet market has something for everyone. No matter your budget or spec preferences, here are the best Android tablets you can buy in 2023.
Mobile Finding a bad Android phone is a rare occurrence these days. However, with so many options available, it can be daunting to choose the best one in 2023. In this article, we aim to help you find the answer to this question.
When looking to buy a new Android phone, there are many factors to consider. Do you prefer a large screen? How important is camera performance to you? Are you someone who enjoys gaming on your phone? Or do you need a long-lasting battery life? To assist you, we have compiled a list of Android phones that cater to everyone's needs, regardless of your preferences or priorities.
Mobile Folding smartphones have taken the world by storm. Initially, they appeared futuristic and exciting. However, with time, they have been refined and improved to cater to everyday use. Their prices are gradually decreasing as the technology advances, but they still remain expensive purchases, making it crucial to make the right buying decision.
Currently, there are two types of folding smartphones available in the market. The first type resembles a regular non-folding phone, which can be unfolded into a larger tablet-like device. The second type is similar to the classic Motorola Razr clamshell phones, where a normal-sized phone can be folded in half to become more compact and pocketable. Although both use the same screen and hinge technology, they cater to different needs.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
