Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Phones Best Tablets Tesla Phone Download Android 14 Best Android Phones Home Mobile News Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? The Fitbit Charge 6 is a fitness tracker and smartwatch hybrid By Mark Jansen Close Fitbit Fitbit has finally embraced what it means to be owned by Google with the Fitbit Charge 6. Not only is the Charge 6 an impressive-looking fitness tracker with a more accurate heart rate tracker, but it’s also the first Fitbit device to really lean on the vast data resources offered by its parent company, Google. These additions have moved the Charge 6 toward becoming more of a smartwatch, thinning the barriers between the two device types.
Fitbit was purchased by Google in January 2021, but outside of Fitbit’s tech being front and center in the fitness section of the Google Pixel Watch , it hasn’t meant too much change for the fitness tracker brand. That ends with today.
The Fitbit Charge 6 has Google tech packed to the gills.
YouTube Music is likely to be a hit-or-miss addition, depending on whether you use the music service or not, but Google Maps ? That’s sure to be a massive addition for anyone, and the Fitbit Charge 6 comes with Google Maps and GPS built-in, so you can get turn-by-turn directions for your new running route right from your wrist. Also included is Google Wallet, perfect for that post-workout coffee, smoothie, or (we won’t tell if you don’t) sweet treat.
Google Maps and Google Wallet were also added to the Fitbit Sense 2 and Fitbit Versa 4 throughout late 2022 and early 2023, and it’s great to see those Google integrations now creeping into another of Fitbit’s lineups.
Previous Next 1 2 Fitbit Fitbit A fitness tracker that can’t track fitness is no good, though, so thankfully, the Fitbit Charge 6 is equipped with a large number of potential exercises. It sports over 40 exercise modes, with 20 having been added just for the Charge 6. It will also help you to track your personal goals and stats, as well as keep on top of whether you’re ready to roll for the day ahead with your Daily Readiness Score.
Fitbit’s SmartTrack tech watches out for when it thinks you’ve started performing in a number of common activities, so even if you forget to start tracking, your Charge 6 will have noticed and will have started tracking anyway. An advanced heart rate tracker monitors your heart rate 24/7 and offers significantly stronger accuracy during certain activities like HIIT, spinning, and rowing. Will these changes land it on top of our best Fitbits and best fitness tracker lists ? We’ll have to wait and see, but it’s looking like a likely inclusion.
Wellness is an increasingly large part of wearable smart tech, and the Fitbit Charge 6 doesn’t lack in this area either. There’s the aforementioned 24/7 heart rate tracking, but the Charge 6 also tracks your stress levels, your blood oxygen levels, skin temperature, and how well you’ve slept.
Being rested and well is a vital part of achieving your fitness goals, and the Fitbit Charge 6 also has a suite of tests it can run to make sure you’re running at optimal levels. Like more expensive smartwatches , the Charge 6 can perform an ECG to test your heart’s health, but it also has access to an EDA scanning app — a test that can detect small changes in your sweat to detect when you’re responding to stress, and then let you know if you need to take a break.
Fitbit All that comes packed into a small, svelte package. The design is largely unchanged from last year’s Fitbit Charge 5 , but frankly, it doesn’t need to change much. The tracker itself is small, measuring less than an inch wide and an inch-and-a-half long, and all your data is presented on a small 1.04-inch display with always-on capabilities. Don’t like the idea of reading on such a small screen? You can access all your data on the smartphone companion app instead. The battery is impressive, lasting seven days on a single charge, though Fitbit warns that using certain features, like the always-on display and blood oxygen tracking, may reduce the battery life.
The Fitbit Charge 6 is available for preorder now, with full release on October 12. It starts from $160 and comes in black aluminum with an obsidian band, champagne gold aluminum with a coral band, and silver aluminum with a porcelain band. A six-month subscription to Fitbit Premium is also bundled into every Fitbit Charge 6 purchase.
Editors' Recommendations The future of Fitbit doesn’t look good Polar’s newest smartwatch could be a Fitbit and Garmin killer I ditched my smartwatch for a fitness tracker, and I couldn’t be happier Does the Google Pixel 6a have wireless charging? Know this before buying iPad Mini 6 experiencing charging issue after being updated to iPadOS 15.5 Fitbit Google Health & Fitness Tech News Wearables Mobile Fitbit has been helping people track their sleep information for over ten years. Now, the company's latest Fitbit Premium feature, Sleep Profile, will provide personalized data to improve sleep quality across the board. Previously, Fitbits were able to track nightly patterns such as sleep duration, restfulness, and REM sleep. While that information can be helpful for understanding a person's sleeping habits, Sleep Profile will up the ante by tracking even more data points and, perhaps more importantly, will help users understand how to interpret the data.
In addition to sleep duration, restfulness, and REM sleep, your Fitbit can now track sleep schedule variability, your time before sound sleep, and disrupted sleep. Users will have access to the individual data points after each night but won't receive any interpretation of the information until the end of each month. Sleep Profile will then analyze the data, compare it to other users, and give a full report on your sleep patterns.
Mobile If you've been around kids for a while, you know they love gadgets. Many parents are concerned their children are gripped by technology, but this doesn't always have to be a bad thing. Devices like fitness trackers can be useful for kids to encourage movement in a way that's actually fun, and they can help keep them fit and outside in a way not usually associated with technology as a whole. Intrigued? Here's a roundup of the best fitness trackers for kids.
Best fitness trackers for kids Fitbit Ace 3 Fan of Fitbit and want to get one for your kid? Consider the Fitbit Ace 3, a kids' version of the classic Fitbit fitness tracker. It tracks the number of steps taken, monitors movement, sends activity reminders, and even has bedtime alarms to make the parents' job easier. The tracker is waterproof so you don't have to worry about accidental spillage, and the kids can even take it swimming.
Mobile Google's Pixel 6 and Pixel 6 Pro were initially thought to charge at up to 30 watts, but were found to actually charge at substantially slower speeds than that. Now, Google has confirmed that the Pixel 6 does in fact charge at closer to 20W to help preserve the long-term battery life of the newest Pixels.
Writing on the Pixel community forums, a Google community manager explained: "We’ve optimized Pixel’s lithium-ion battery for high charge rates when the battery level is low. Pixel 6 can get up to 50% in around 30 minutes (with Google’s 30W USB-C power charger), and quickly reaches up to 80% in about an hour, depending on device usage and temperature. The peak power that Pixel 6 and Pixel 6 Pro draw from the wired charger is 21W and 23W, respectively. As the battery gets closer to full, charging power is gradually reduced in order to improve battery longevity." Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
