Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending in Computing: Best Dell Laptops ChatGPT Best Monitors Asus ROG Azoth Review How to delete a page in Word in 3 easy steps RTX 4080 vs RTX 4070 Ti Best Mac Apps AMD vs Intel Recall an Email in Outlook Home Computing News I fell in love with this adorable mini gaming PC By Jacob Roach Close A new mini gaming PC designed to look like a classic Mac is launching soon, and it could be seriously impressive. Ayaneo revealed the AM01 mini PC and it’s among the first mini PCs the company has ever released.
Ayaneo is mostly known for making handheld gaming PCs like the Ayaneo 2S , but it’s introducing two mini PCs as part of its new Remake concept. The series is meant to “interpret retro, reshape classic,” according to the company, which furnished its portable gaming devices with the powdery whites and grays of classic electronics.
The AM01 looks like it takes design inspiration specifically from a classic Mac like the Apple II. It’s off-white with a rainbow badge on top that sits alongside a gray power button. Ayaneo hasn’t shared many details yet, but it looks as if the mini PC includes five USB ports, with four on the back and one on the front, along with an HDMI port, DisplayPort connection, and Ethernet.
We don’t have any details about the specs for now, but the IndieGoGo page for the AM01 promises “top-notch gaming experiences” and “multiple processor version option.” The page also highlights that the mini PC will be available with Windows 11 or as a bare-bones PC, both of which offer user-expandable storage.
Ayaneo Ayaneo is no stranger to powerful APUs like the Ryzen 7 7840U, so it’s possible we’ll see an APU in the AM01. It’s possible that Ayaneo could pack a discrete GPU into the mini PC, though an APU seems more likely given the size. Ayaneo says the AM01 is “so portable [it] can be carried in your bag.” Ayaneo The PC will launch in mid- to late November at an Ayaneo event, but it seems this is when the campaign on IndieGoGo will launch, not when the final product will ship.
Call of Duty Modern Warfare 3: best settings, benchmarks, and more Intel’s next-gen GPUs are its first real shot at being the best Apple has everything it needs to dominate gaming — except games Ayaneo announced several other products at its showcase, including the AM02, which is a mini PC like the AM01 that sports a design reminiscent of the classic NES. In addition, the company introduced the Ayaneo Slide, which is a 7840U handheld with a screen you can slide forward to reveal a keyboard, and the Ayaneo Flip, a clamshell handheld that reveals either a keyboard or a second screen depending on your model. The Slide will launch at the end of November, while the Flip is expected in the next two months.
Editors' Recommendations A typo is ruining this $700 Asus motherboard — but there’s a fix 5 things you should never do with your gaming laptop Don’t believe the hype — the era of native resolution gaming isn’t over I made an entire PC build for the price of one Nvidia GPU Alan Wake 2 is proof that more PC games need a potato mode PC Gaming Tech News Computing As a gamer who often plays online, a gaming headset has always seemed like a necessity for me. After all, I don't just need speakers or headphones -- I need the whole package, meaning headphones and a microphone. Given the amount of gaming headsets on the market, you'd think it'd be easy to find a good pair of cans with a mic that works. Spoiler alert: It's not.
I gave gaming headsets way too many chances and sank way too much money into them, only to be disappointed again and again. After trying three of the most popular options, I'm ready to say that I'm done. Here's what happened.
Everything, all at once Computing Alan Wake 2 is stuffed with PC tech. It feels like one of the true next-gen games that we've seen on PC, short of remakes like Portal RTX and updates like Cyberpunk 2077. From path tracing to frame generation to AI-powered denoisers, Alan Wake 2 shows off what PC has to offer in 2023, even if that means leaving less powerful rigs behind in this dust.
Although the game itself is straightforward enough, its performance on PC is anything but. Alan Wake 2 is a stunning showcase with high-end hardware and all of the modern bells and whistles enabled, but it's a slog on lower-end machines that fall outside of its demanding minimum hardware requirements. There's good and bad here, and after spending some time with the game, we need to examine both.
Computing Hyte is challenging the status quo once again. The company, which quickly made it to the top of the list of best PC cases with its Y60, has a crazy new concept called the Y70 Touch. It's a PC case that has a built-in touchscreen, and although it's clearly a premium chassis choice, it's much more attainable than you might expect.
At $360, the Hyte Y70 Touch isn't just a premium case built exclusively for show floors. It's a real product, and although it's much more expensive than most PC cases, it's not out of the question for a high-end build.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
