Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Phones Best Tablets Tesla Phone Download Android 14 Best Android Phones Home Mobile Features Don’t listen to Google. The Pixel Watch 2 isn’t a smartwatch at all By Andy Boxall Close Google I don’t think the Google Pixel Watch 2 is a smartwatch.
 I think it’s merely being passed off as one, as once more, Google hasn’t treated the design like a smartwatch at all.
How smartwatches and fitness bands are different No change for the Pixel Watch 2 Fitbit’s influence runs deeper than the software Why? Because it has only made it in a single case size, which is the same mistake it made with the first Google Pixel Watch , and it’s shocking to see it has done so again. Due to this, it’s time we stopped calling it a smartwatch, as it has more in common with another popular type of wearable: a fitness band.
How smartwatches and fitness bands are different Samsung Galaxy Watch 6 Classic Andy Boxall / Digital Trends Why do I think the Pixel Watch 2 is a fitness band and not a smartwatch? Let me explain. Smartwatches have a dual role. In addition to all the smart features provided by it connecting to your phone, plus the health and fitness features delivered through the sensor array and software, a smartwatch should replicate the feeling of wearing a traditional watch through its design, style, fit, and finish. It’s taking up valuable wrist space and is often chosen as much for the way it looks as it is for its functionality.
A fitness tracker is chosen almost solely for its functionality. It performs a function and adopts a minimalist design so as to be unobtrusive on your wrist. Wearers accept this because the design is secondary to the data it provides. And as long they aren’t shaped like a wart on your wrist and come in some pretty colors, fitness bands are accepted and largely forgotten about once put on. See every single Fitbit, Xiaomi Smart Band, or cheap knockoff available on Amazon for evidence. They’re functional, but never very desirable, and we wear them for their ability, not because they make us feel something.
Fitbit Inspire 3 Andy Zahn / Digital Trends Telling the time isn’t a good enough reason to solely strap a watch to our wrist anymore, as we can see the time on our phones, so a watch needs to make us feel something. Making sure it is desirable and looks good on a wide variety of wrists is therefore crucial, and the key to this happening is to provide it in different case sizes.
If you don’t, it ends up being either too big or too small — and very rarely just right. Fitness trackers, because the design isn’t a highlight, tend to be smaller, so they are less noticeable and less likely to clash with the watch or jewelry we want to wear.
No change for the Pixel Watch 2 Google The Pixel Watch 2 looks the same as the Pixel Watch. It’s small, unfussy, and made of aluminum, with domed glass over the screen. There are different bands attached using a proprietary system, and it comes in four different color combinations — Polished Silver/Bay Blue, Polished Silver/Porcelain, Matte Black/Obsidian, and Champagne Gold/Hazel. The case back has been given a new look to accommodate new sensors. It’s round like a watch, but when you describe it, it sounds like a fitness band.
Its shape is simple to the point of being invisible, and it still only comes in a single 41mm case size. The Apple Watch Series 9 , the Samsung Galaxy Watch 6 and Galaxy Watch 6 Classic , and other models like the Tag Heuer Connected Calibre E4 all come in two different case sizes. Google says it did a lot of research into what size watch suited the most people before settling on the 41mm case size, and on paper, this common size should work well. But in reality, the minimalist, no-lug design shrinks it right down, and it wears more like a 39mm or even smaller watch.
I don’t mind the Pixel Watch 2’s minimalist design, even if it is a bit unimaginative. I have also deliberately purchased traditional watches with a 41mm case, as they suit my wrist better than smaller versions of the same watch. It means I really should be able to put the Pixel Watch 2 on my wrist and not feel like I’ve accidentally put on the child’s version — or think my wrist has mysteriously ballooned from 6.5 inches to 8.5 inches overnight. Yet, that’s precisely what I think, and I don’t think I will be alone.
The solution would be to simply select the size up, just like I do with the Galaxy Watch 6 and Apple Watch. I’ve worn a 41mm Apple Watch in the past, just to see, and it looks silly on my wrist, which is why I wear a 45mm model. Except I can’t get the next size up with a Pixel Watch because Google has done its research and thinks 41mm is good enough to satisfy everyone. This is fitness band thinking, not watchmaking.
Fitbit’s influence runs deeper than the software Google This total belief in a single, one-size-fits-all number proves Google has made a fitness band and not a smartwatch. Google can call it a smartwatch or even a timepiece, as it bravely does in some of the press materials, but very, very few watchmakers only offer a single watch in a single size. If I’m going to wear a watch all the time, then I want it to suit my wrist, and the case size dictates this more than anything else. If there’s only one size and it looks a bit silly on me, then I’m not going to buy it. Watchmakers know this, and the majority of smartwatch makers have sensibly adopted the same philosophy.
On the other hand, fitness bands almost always come in a single, small size and have a minimalist, unassuming design. They can be shown off at the gym, then hidden away when you don’t want to look like you run absolutely everywhere. Fitbit has followed this formula from the very beginning, and its so-called smartwatches are just jazzier versions of its fitness bands. Fitbit, now a Google company, is a major part of the Pixel Watch 2’s software, but its influence clearly extends beyond this and into the design. There’s nothing wrong with a fitness band, but they aren’t smartwatches. Not even close.
If you’re thinking about buying the Pixel Watch 2, don’t do so by comparing it with the Galaxy Watch 6, Apple Watch Series 9, or even the Huawei Watch GT 4.
 Google may say the Pixel Watch 2 is a smartwatch, but it has been designed like a fitness band, and you may find it doesn’t fit on your wrist or into your lifestyle very well. It definitely doesn’t fit me. Instead, think of it as an alternative to something like a Fitbit Sense 2.
Google has, perhaps unintentionally, treated the Pixel Watch 2 exactly like a fitness band, and so should you.
Editors' Recommendations There might be something wrong with the Google Pixel Watch 2 I used the Google Pixel 8 Pro’s weirdest feature. I’m not impressed There’s a problem with these 10 Google Pixel 8 features Google’s Pixel 8 trade-in deals are absolutely embarrassing The Google Pixel 8’s AI photo features are amazing — and a little scary Android Features Google Google Pixel Wearables Mobile The speculation and leaks are over, and the new devices have been officially revealed. The Made By Google event for October 2023 has left us with three amazing new devices and one incredible feat of software engineering that's sure to be the talk of all smartphone and technology lovers for the next few months. Yes, while the Google Pixel 8, Pixel 8 Pro, and Pixel Watch 2 may have been the hardware stars of the show, it's the Best Take mode that really took our breath away.
Google Pixel 8 Event in 11 Minutes Mobile The Apple Watch Ultra 2 announcement from Apple's iPhone 15 event needs some thinking about before it makes sense. Why? At first, it looked like a product barely deserving of the name due to a disappointing list of upgrades, the addition of only a few new features, and the fact that it has exactly the same look as last year’s model.
This is all factually correct, but I’m about to explain why it was to be expected — and why it doesn’t matter at all.
It’s not for Apple Watch Ultra owners Apple Watch Ultra Andy Boxall / Digital Trends Mobile Some of what you’re about to read is going to make it sound like I hate the Google Pixel Fold, but this is not the case. I’ve spent about two weeks with the phone, and there are multiple elements I really like (and even love). However, this is an $1,800 smartphone, and when something costs that much, it needs to come close to being exactly right — especially when there is a really fantastic competing product selling for the same price.
By the end of my time with the Pixel Fold, I had reached a surprising, but very happy conclusion.
My most controversial opinion on the Pixel Fold Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
