Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Phones Best Tablets Tesla Phone Download Android 14 Best Android Phones Home Mobile News This Pixel Watch 2 leak just made it the 2023 smartwatch I can’t wait for By Nadeem Sarwar Close Andy Boxall / Digital Trends Google’s first attempt at the smartwatch ecosystem was the Pixel Watch, which served fine hardware and rewarding software married to underwhelming battery life and some missing health-tracking features. It looks like Google will address all the damning foibles in one fell swoop later this year with the Pixel Watch 2.
This bodes well for the entire Wear OS ecosystem Google wants to fill the feature gulf, too Correcting the first Pixel Watch’s mistakes According to 9to5Google , Google is switching away from Samsung’s Exynos processor fitted inside the Pixel Watch.
 Instead, the company is sourcing Qualcomm’s W5 series flagship smartwatch chip for the second-gen Pixel Watch. That’s great news — not just for the Pixel Watch legacy, but also for the whole ecosystem.
Announced last July, the Snapdragon W5 and its Plus version are based on the 4nm fabrication process, compared to the 10nm-based Exynos chip inside the Pixel Watch. That’s a huge jump, which theoretically promises dramatically improved raw firepower and increased energy efficiency.
Qualcomm says that compared to its own Snapdragon 4100+ smartwatch silicon, the W5 family offers a 2x boost in performance and also serves extras like always-sensing health awareness tricks, low-power ambient features, and allows a smaller device footprint.
Plus, the whole package also ships with a co-processor to offload less demanding or specialized tasks from the main processor. While more grunt under the hood is always welcome, the part about energy efficiency is more promising. Qualcomm has promised a 50% jump in generation-over-generation battery life with the Snapdragon W5 series.
Andy Boxall/Digital Trends / Digital Trends The Pixel Watch has improved its battery life slightly with software-side optimizations, but it still can barely last over a day with continuous tracking, GPS enabled, and sleep monitoring enabled. The Snapdragon W5+ Gen 1-based Mobvoi TicWatch Pro 5 absolutely crushes the Pixel Watch , with my colleague Andy Boxall reporting up to four days of battery life with a similar usage pattern.
Now, it would be unwise to credit all those improvements to the Snapdragon silicon inside, but it’s hard to dismiss the sheer difference between the two smartwatches based on the same Wear OS platform.
It would be interesting to see how Google leverages the vastly superior. At least on paper, the Snapdragon W5 series chip inside the Pixel Watch 2 should finally deliver a smartwatch that can truly go toe-to-toe with the Apple Watch.
This bodes well for the entire Wear OS ecosystem Andy Boxall / Digital Trends Wear OS stayed laggard for years, and it was only following the Tizen OS merger with Samsung about two years ago that development really picked up the pace. With the upcoming Wear OS 4 update, Google has announced not only a swath of new features but also deep performance optimizations that could very well translate to improved battery life.
But there’s another benefit of the Snapdragon W5 coming to the Pixel Watch 2. Save for Samsung, there’s no mainstream smartwatch brand in the Wear OS ecosystem. The likes of Fossil and Mobvoi have remained loyal to Snapdragon silicon for years, and soon, Google will join that league, too.
Now, Google is the maker of Wear OS, and it only comes naturally that with the Pixel Watch 2, the focus of tuning Wear OS will shift more towards Qualcomm than outliers like Exynos. In simple words, Google’s work on Wear OS with a Snapdragon chip as the test bed would naturally help every other smartwatch brand that has inked a deal with Qualcomm.
Andy Boxall / Digital Trends Yes, the Pixel family doesn’t really crack up the market with bombastic sales. But more than just a hardware endeavor struggling to rake in fat profits, the Pixel family has always served as the test bed for showcasing the best of Google’s hardware — be it Android or, at the moment, Wear OS.
I can’t wait to see what practical improvements arrive with the Pixel Watch 2 and how it could serve as a template to make even better Wear OS hardware from partner brands. Samsung, well, it looks like the upcoming Galaxy Watch 6 series will stick with a new Exynos process instead of embracing Qualcomm — despite doing so with the all-Snapdragon approach for the Galaxy S23 series phones.
Google wants to fill the feature gulf, too Andy Boxall/Digital Trends In our Pixel Watch review , we classified the Pixel Watch as a “relatively simple fitness tracker.” It missed out on tricks like temperature sensing, body composition analysis, an abnormal heart rate detection system, and some odd activity tracking pitfalls.
Overall, Google didn’t really put in the effort to make it a standout fitness companion, despite charging a handsome $350 for it. But it looks like Google is ready to make amends with its second smartwatch outing. The 9to5Google report mentions that Google is borrowing the sensor array from the Fitbit Sense 2 smartwatch by Fitbit, a company that Google owns.
Assuming the report turns out to be true, we are looking at an Electrical sensor to measure skin conductance (cEDA) for stress detection on the Pixel Watch 2, alongside an on-wrist skin temperature sensor. We don’t know if Google is going to add any next-gen biosensing module to the Pixel Watch 2.
In terms of features, you can expect all-day body response tracking, improved sleep profiling, heart rate variability, skin temperature logging, high and low heart rate notifications, active zone details, and workout readiness scoring, among others.
Correcting the first Pixel Watch’s mistakes Andy Boxall/Digital Trends “There’s no excuse for the Pixel Watch’s many downsides,” says our review of the Pixel Watch, adding that Google “failed to make the Apple Watch of the Android world.” Even months after launch, Google hasn’t really addressed those gloaring pitfalls, some of which are tied to the inherent hardware and can’t be addressed with software updates.
Plus, it definitely doesn’t help that more capable rivals that also offer a better deal at a lower asking price are already out there. It’s just pathetic that buyers have to pay a premium to live with a sub-par experience. But hey, this is a Pixel, after all, and where’s the legacy fun if Google doesn’t bomb and then chart a corrective course ? Overall, based on leaks, the Pixel Watch 2 is shaping up to be the Wear OS smartwatch that Google should have made in the first attempt. I’ll be more than happy to lap up the current design – and at the same premium price tag – if Google makes the tangible changes under the hood and delivers a better smartwatch package later this year.
Editors' Recommendations I did a Pixel 8 and OnePlus 11 camera test. Picking a winner wasn’t easy There might be something wrong with the Google Pixel Watch 2 I took these pictures with the Google Pixel 8, but you won’t believe me Don’t buy the Google Pixel 8 — 5 reasons to wait for the Pixel 9 Do old Pixel Watch bands fit the Google Pixel Watch 2? Android Google Google Pixel Tech News Wearables Mobile The speculation and leaks are over, and the new devices have been officially revealed. The Made By Google event for October 2023 has left us with three amazing new devices and one incredible feat of software engineering that's sure to be the talk of all smartphone and technology lovers for the next few months. Yes, while the Google Pixel 8, Pixel 8 Pro, and Pixel Watch 2 may have been the hardware stars of the show, it's the Best Take mode that really took our breath away.
Google Pixel 8 Event in 11 Minutes Mobile I don’t think the Google Pixel Watch 2 is a smartwatch. I think it’s merely being passed off as one, as once more, Google hasn’t treated the design like a smartwatch at all.
Why? Because it has only made it in a single case size, which is the same mistake it made with the first Google Pixel Watch, and it’s shocking to see it has done so again. Due to this, it's time we stopped calling it a smartwatch, as it has more in common with another popular type of wearable: a fitness band.
Mobile The Apple Watch Ultra 2 announcement from Apple's iPhone 15 event needs some thinking about before it makes sense. Why? At first, it looked like a product barely deserving of the name due to a disappointing list of upgrades, the addition of only a few new features, and the fact that it has exactly the same look as last year’s model.
This is all factually correct, but I’m about to explain why it was to be expected — and why it doesn’t matter at all.
It’s not for Apple Watch Ultra owners Apple Watch Ultra Andy Boxall / Digital Trends Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
