Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Phones Best Tablets Tesla Phone Download Android 14 Best Android Phones Home Mobile Reviews Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Google Pixel Watch review By Andy Boxall Close $350.00 Very comfortable to wear Fitbit app is comprehensive Short battery life Only one size Missing health tracking features Google, a technology giant, has released its long-awaited and much-hyped Pixel Watch smartwatch to accompany its desirable flagship Pixel 7 smartphone series.
 This sentence gives you get an idea of the importance and level of expectation on Google’s shoulders here. And given how long we’ve been waiting and the sheer ability of all the companies involved, the Pixel Watch should be Google’s Apple Watch moment.
Google Pixel Watch design Google Pixel Watch screen Google Pixel Watch health and fitness tracking Google Pixel Watch software and everyday use Google Pixel Watch battery and charging Google Pixel Watch, several months later Getting a second opinion on the Pixel Watch Google Pixel Watch price and availability The Pixel Watch disappoints, and that’s frustrating Except it’s not even close. This is what it’s like, and where it all goes wrong.
Google Pixel Watch design Andy Boxall/Digital Trends The Pixel Watch is definitely a watch.
 It has a circular case, a crown on the side, and a strap to secure it to your wrist. It is devoid of design flourish or extraneous visual garnish, and while there is a button on the side of the case, it’s flush and hidden from view, so you forget it’s there. It’s all very minimalist, but not in a good way. By avoiding anything approaching a personality or character , Google has made the Pixel Watch too simple. I don’t feel anything when I look at it.
Actually, this isn’t strictly true. I regularly look at it on my wrist and think it looks quite dainty like I’ve bought the smaller size by mistake. But no, Google has only made one size , and it’s a serious misstep. The Apple Watch Series 8 and the Samsung Galaxy Watch 5 come in two sizes, making them suitable for different wrist sizes and personal preferences. You can only get a 41mm Pixel Watch, and it’s small for a smartwatch. Producing a single, big 45mm smartwatch is restrictive, but so is only making a single, small 41mm smartwatch.
Andy Boxall/Digital Trends On the positive side, the case is smooth, ergonomic, and supremely comfortable. It’s light enough at 64 grams with the strap to be worn 24 hours a day, and I’ve been able to sleep happily with the Pixel Watch on my wrist. The Gorilla Glass case back’s rounded shape means it makes good contact with your skin, and the equally curved screen and the lack of physical bezel on the case make swiping smooth and easy. The stainless steel case of my review model is in the Polished Silver color, but you can also get a Matte Black and Champagne Gold style.
My review Pixel Watch has a skin-friendly, very flexible, and easy-to-wear rubber strap — and there are two sizes included in the box. I’m wearing the shortest of the two straps in the photos.
It’s attached using a proprietary system, where you press a tiny button on the case and slide the strap to the side to remove it. It’s a bit awkward to do, and putting it back on requires more precision than you may expect. It does feel very secure, but like the Apple Watch, it means you can’t use normal watch straps — only those specially made with Google’s system.
Andy Boxall/Digital Trends The crown can be twisted to navigate through the menus, where it’s accompanied by some pleasing haptic feedback, or pressed to open the main menu or go back to the main screen. Unfortunately, the motion is clicky and cheap, while twisting it to navigate is muddier than the Apple Watch and Galaxy Watch 5’s super-smooth and precise action.
The way the case has been cut around the crown makes it look like an afterthought too. The Pixel Watch doesn’t have specific durability features, relying on 5ATM of water resistance rather than an IP rating for water and dust resistance, and military-standard toughness like the Galaxy Watch 5.
The Pixel Watch looks and feels like a missed opportunity. There’s nothing about it that makes it a Pixel Watch; it’s just a smartwatch. It’s not ugly, it’s just terribly ordinary. Perhaps I’d like the way it looked more if it was a bit bigger, but I’ll never know because Google has decided on one-size-fits-all, and that’s simply not true at all.
Google Pixel Watch screen Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Above all else, you need to know there’s a big, black bezel around the Pixel Watch’s screen, and that the viewing area is really small because of it. The 1.2-inch AMOLED screen suits the 41mm case size, but the bezel and overly simplistic design make it appear far smaller than it does on the Tag Heuer Connected Calibre E4 , for example. The bezel and the small screen mean it never shows very much information at one time. You can see one notification card or three menu items at one time, so you tend to do a lot more scrolling than on something like the Apple Watch.
Efforts to disguise the bezel mean the available watch faces all have black backgrounds. The designs are attractive, though, and I really like the Pilot Bold and Pacific versions, along with the very cool animated Concentric face too. Overall it’s a far better, more varied selection than Samsung provides with the Galaxy Watch 5. The always-on screen is deactivated by default, but I’ve had it turned on for the duration of my review, and the ambient modes look great.
Andy Boxall/Digital Trends There’s an adaptive brightness option, but for the most part, I’ve found leaving the screen one notch below maximum brightness is the better solution, as it’s not the fastest system in the dark, and it tends to just sit at maximum brightness when adaptive is on anyway. As we’ll come to in a while, anything that perhaps helps extend the battery life is welcome.
The Pixel Watch’s screen is sharp and colorful, with some very well-designed watch faces. However, it’s hurt by the large bezel and subsequent small viewing area. It makes the Pixel Watch’s interface feel constricted and forces you to swipe or twist the crown more just to see what’s going on.
Google Pixel Watch health and fitness tracking Andy Boxall / Digital Trends The Pixel Watch has an optical heart rate sensor on the back and can take an electrocardiogram too, and while there is a blood oxygen sensor available, it has not been activated yet. There’s no temperature sensor as you get on the Apple Watch, and no body composition reading like the Galaxy Watch 5. It’s a relatively simple fitness tracker in terms of sensors. Fitbit’s health monitoring platform is the standard system, and the Watch comes with six months of free access to Fitbit Premium.
Compared to many other, often cheaper, fitness trackers, the Pixel Watch is feature-light. I can’t specifically track indoor cycling because there’s no dedicated mode for it, but I can track indoor climbing.
 The Pixel Watch doesn’t automatically switch to Bedtime mode; you have to do that manually. It doesn’t auto-pause and re-start workouts, it doesn’t have a smart alarm, and there’s no abnormal heart rate detection either. There is an automatic workout recognition mode, but it’s oddly designed and haphazard. Instead of jumping in 10 minutes into a workout like the Apple Watch, it observes silently and then, if you’re lucky, will retroactively apply the entire session to your daily activity. However, it has only worked once for me, and otherwise, I wouldn’t have known it was a feature at all. And even when it does work, it doesn’t record vital information like distance, splits, GPS data, etc.
The Pixel Watch doesn’t do anything a much cheaper Fitbit can do, and isn’t even close to the Galaxy Watch 5 and Apple Watch’s level of health and fitness ability. It’s surprising the Pixel Watch isn’t a proper showcase for Fitbit (a Google company, don’t forget) and its tracking technology. Instead, it’s not even a rival to the Fitbit Charge 5 , which outdoes it in terms of functionality and battery life — all for about half the price.
Previous Next 1 5 Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Andy Boxall/Digital Trends To see all your data, you use Fitbit’s app, where a selection of features require you to pay a subscription to use — and that includes in-depth sleep tracking and a daily readiness score. Yes, you get six months free, but after that, some features will go away until you pay. Google Fit is still available to download and use for free, but it’s not clear how long the platform will be supported, especially given Google’s track record of closing down things it no longer has any interest in.
By default, the Pixel Watch uses steps to provide insight into your daily activity, rather than an easy, more motivational system like Apple’s Rings or Samsung’s heart. You can switch to Daily Active Minutes for more insight, but it’s still not the same. It delivers occasional reminders to move around, but it never feels especially personal, and there’s no fanfare when you reach any targets either. Fitbit’s app is excellent, with plenty of data, a customizable main page, clear graphs, motivational features, and a strong community. It’s also the same app and platform you get when you buy a Fitbit wearable.
The Pixel Watch feels like a basic fitness tracker, despite the presence of Fitbit’s platform.
Accuracy is similar to what I see from the Apple Watch Series 8 and the Oura Ring for both workouts and sleep. The Oura Ring and the Pixel Watch returned the same sleep score, and the GPS routes looked identical between the two smartwatches when tracking a workout at the same time. However, the Pixel Watch did think I walked further than the Apple Watch did, and also recorded a significantly higher calorie burn. These discrepancies should be noted, but it’s not clear which version is the more accurate.
The Pixel Watch feels like a basic fitness tracker, despite the presence of Fitbit’s platform. I’ve got more value and pleasure out of wearing the Garmin Vivomove Sport , greater insight from the Oura Ring , and enjoyed a wider set of features on the Apple Watch Series 8. It does the job of tracking your activity and health, but only just, and at the bare minimum.
Google Pixel Watch software and everyday use Previous Next 1 4 Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Andy Boxall/Digital Trends The Pixel Watch has Google’s Wear OS 3.5 software installed. It’s almost identical to the version I used on the Montblanc Summit 3 , and free from any additional user interface over it, unlike the Samsung Galaxy Watch 5. You swipe through different Tiles to see pertinent information like your heart rate, daily steps, weather, and agenda. Press the crown to enter the main menu, and swipe up on the watch face to see your notifications. A Samsung Exynos 9110 processor with 2GB of RAM powers the smartwatch.
Wear OS 3.5 has been reliable, but it’s not exactly full of features or imagination. The Apple Watch and Galaxy Watch 5 have far more comprehensive feature sets and apps, but if you just want the basics — maps, mobile payments, health tracking, smart home control, and alarms — the Pixel Watch is perfectly acceptable. Just don’t expect anything like an automatic hand washing timer, crash detection, fall detection (this isn’t ready until later this year), or a Walkie Talkie feature.
The speaker is loud but does tend to distort, and doesn’t provide the highest quality audio experience. That said, the microphone is excellent whether you’re on a call or speaking to the Google Assistant. I’ve found the Pixel Watch picks up my voice very well, and dictating messages and replies to be almost faultless. The screen is a bit small to type on, so this feature is essential, and having it work well is a big benefit.
Previous Next 1 3 Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Andy Boxall/Digital Trends The second-gen Pixel Watch won’t stray too far from the original’s looks.
Andy Boxall / Digital Trends I’ve gotten used to the slight pause between the Watch letting me know there’s a new message and it actually appearing on the screen when I raise my wrist. It’s not as instant as the Apple Watch and, irritatingly, can add an extra step before you see the final message. For example, WhatsApp messages show the sender’s name first, then a second view with the actual message appears a second or so later. This extra step is likely a consequence of the small screen, and it lessens the quick, at-a-glance helpfulness of receiving notifications on your wrist.
While the subtle haptics are well-judged, they aren’t very strong, and there’s no way to adjust the amount of feedback you get. I notice them most of the time, but they don’t come close to the Apple Watch’s superb haptic patterns and obviousness on your wrist.
The Exynos 9110 is old, having previously been used in the Galaxy Watch 3 , and it’s baffling why the latest Qualcomm Snapdragon W5 Gen 1 platform hasn’t been used in this long-awaited, flagship smartwatch from one of tech’s biggest and richest companies. That said, it’s not a poor performer, but the Pixel Watch isn’t so feature-packed that it’s really putting any strain on it. Certainly, for the price, I really expected something a little more impressive.
Google Pixel Watch battery and charging Previous Next 1 3 Andy Boxall/Digital Trends / Digital Trends Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Google Pixel Watch Andy Boxall / Digital Trends The Pixel Watch hasn’t impressed much at this point, and while it can’t be labeled a failure, it needs a big win somewhere to justify the high price. Unfortunately, battery life does not help its case at all. Expect one day and one night of sleep tracking, with a single 30-minute workout without GPS tracking and the always-on screen active, and nothing more. To have a hope of reaching two working days, you’ll have to skip both the workout tracking and sleep tracking.
Sleep tracking seems to be particularly power-hungry compared to other wearables, with between 15% and 20% disappearing overnight. While some smartwatches sip power when they’re not doing much, the Pixel Watch eagerly gobbles all the available energy to the point where only minutes can pass, and a few percent disappear from the battery meter. Remember, it’s doing this badly while still only offering a fraction of the features provided by other smartwatches.
To illustrate how poorly it compares to other models, I wore the Pixel Watch alongside the Apple Watch Series 8 for a day starting at about 9 a.m., then tracked a single GPS workout and used them for the rest of the day connected to a Pixel 7 and iPhone 14 Pro respectively. At 11 p.m., the Apple Watch’s battery was at 55%, while the Pixel Watch sat at 22%. To track sleep, I’d have to charge the Pixel Watch, and even then question whether I’d make it through the next day without visiting the charger again.
A USB Type-C charging puck is included in the box, and Google claims a 50% charge comes up in 30 minutes, and it’ll be full after 80 minutes. These match the times seen during our test.
Google Pixel Watch, several months later Andy Boxall/Digital Trends I returned to the Pixel Watch some weeks after it was released, but sadly found that I hadn’t warmed to it more — and I put it all down in a single article explaining why it’s not as good as I hoped.
What’s more, after that, I returned to the Pixel Watch again.
I did it this time with its main competitor, the Galaxy Watch 5, on my other wrist.
 Samsung’s smartwatch is by far the superior model, and it’s absolutely the better purchase. You can see the specifications aren’t all that different , but the usability, design, and software are all leaps ahead of Google’s smartwatch.
Getting a second opinion on the Pixel Watch Andrew Martonik / Digital Trends While I’ve reviewed the Google Pixel Watch, Digital Trends’ Mobile Editor Joe Maring has also been wearing one. And, unfortunately, his thoughts line up almost identically with mine. Here’s what he had to say: “My experience with Google’s first Pixel wearable has been largely the same as Andy’s. For a $350 smartwatch, this thing just doesn’t cut it. The Pixel Watch looks great, and as someone with small wrists, I think it fits really well, too. But the crown is mushy, the bezels easily distract from what you’re looking at on the screen, and not offering a larger size for people who do want a big watch is mind-boggling to me. That small size also means that the battery is pretty consistently terrible. The Pixel Watch is almost always 20% lower than my Apple Watch Series 7 , with almost identical usage and just barely scrapes by a full day of normal use.
Andrew Martonik / Digital Trends “What’s bothered me more, though, is the Pixel Watch’s approach to health and fitness. I’m not a fitness nut — I go to the gym a few times per week and enjoy a couple of outdoor walks during the weekend. But even for me, the Pixel Watch doesn’t offer enough. The lack of automatic workout detection is a massive oversight, no irregular heart rhythm notifications makes zero sense, and almost all of the really interesting health data logged by the Pixel Watch is locked behind a $10 per month Fitbit Premium subscription. It does less than the competition while also charging more money. It’s a lose-lose.
“I didn’t go into using the Pixel Watch hoping to be disappointed. I wanted the Pixel Watch to be an exciting entry in the Wear OS world and something that would make the wait for Google’s fabled smartwatch worth it. But now that it’s here, it’s hard to look at the Pixel Watch as anything more than a half-baked, overpriced smartwatch that’s difficult to recommend to anyone.” Google Pixel Watch price and availability The Wi-Fi version of the Pixel Watch costs $350 or 339 British pounds, while the 4G LTE model costs $399 or 379 pounds. To use the 4G LTE functionality, and potentially leave your phone at home but remain contactable, your phone carrier will charge an extra amount per month.
It’s an expensive smartwatch, but for no good reason.
The 40mm Samsung Galaxy Watch 5 costs $280 before Samsung’s various trade-in deals and is a far better purchase. The 44mm version is $310 if you prefer a larger watch. If you only want to track your health the Oura Ring does so very well, costs about the same, and like the Pixel Watch, also has an obnoxious subscription package to continue seeing your data after six months of use.
If you want Fitbit’s platform, almost any wearable the brand offers is a better buy than the Pixel Watch.
The Charge 5 is far cheaper and does more, or if you want one of its dubiously styled smartwatches. Even the top Fitbit Sense 2 costs much less. The software may not be Wear OS, but it’s reliable, notifications are good, it tracks all your health metrics, and comes with six months of a Fitbit Premium membership.
The Pixel Watch disappoints, and that’s frustrating Andrew Martonik / Digital Trends For a first-try product, the Pixel Watch should be given a break, right? After all, Google hasn’t made a smartwatch before, and first-generation hiccups are to be expected. Nonsense. There’s no excuse for the Pixel Watch’s many downsides. Apart from the Pixel Watch gestating for years, Google makes the top Android-based software for wearables, it has worked with multiple companies on smartwatches — from Samsung and LG to Montblanc, since before smartwatches became popular — and had a strong hand in one of the very first desirable smartwatches released, the original 2014 Moto 360.
It purchased Fitbit and has access to its incredible know-how and established technology, and spent millions on a team of smartwatch engineers and technology from Fossil.
 Google itself is hardly a startup lacking in resources or brain power, and the smartwatch as a device is a very established product line. Yes, making new products is hard, but it’s not breaking any new ground here. Yet somehow, it still makes a mediocre device with little to recommend over the competition.
Not only has Google failed to make the Apple Watch of the Android world, but it has also failed to even make one that could be considered an equivalent to the 2019 Apple Watch Series 5.
 Samsung makes a better-looking, more feature-packed, cheaper smartwatch with a more attractive, more enjoyable-to-use version of Wear OS. When the Galaxy Watch 5 exists, there is no reason to buy the Pixel Watch, and it’s shocking Google thinks its smartwatch is worth an extra $70.
The Pixel Watch isn’t a bad product, in that it performs the functions Google says it will and is well made. But it’s far from good value, lacks a distinctive design and choice of sizes, and can’t compete with products that cost a lot less in terms of features. The poor battery life makes living with it harder than it should be, and I find pushing a subscription-based fitness platform by default quite unpleasant.
I really think Google could have done better with the Pixel Watch, and absolutely know that you can do better with your next smartwatch purchase.
Editors' Recommendations Google is finally fixing an annoying issue with its Pixel phones The Google Pixel 8 just got its first update. Here’s what’s new The best smartwatches in 2023: our 12 favorites Don’t update your Pixel phone — a new Android update might break it Google Pixel 8a: news, rumored price, release date, and more Android Google Google Pixel Product Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Wearable Reviews Wearables Mobile One of the most surprising additions to Google’s Pixel hardware in recent years is temperature sensing. The Google Pixel 8 Pro comes armed with a temperature sensor that can measure the temperature of objects simply by “scanning” them from an optimum distance within the five-centimeter range. Google says the sensor is good for “beverages, cooking pan, water temperature, and more.” The smartphone community, however, is seemingly hell-bent on relegating it to gimmick status. But average Pixel 8 Pro owners are finding cool ways to use it. As detailed in this Reddit post, one Pixel 8 Pro user was stuck in a stormy situation that took out the power supply for 36 hours, putting them in a quandary regarding the status of food items kept in an out-of-power refrigerator.
Mobile Two of the brightest smartphone displays on the market are featured on the Google Pixel 8 Pro and the OnePlus Open. However, in the ever-changing world of technology, there is always something better on the horizon.
On Tuesday, October 24, Chinese-based OnePlus and its parent company, Oppo, will announce "a new dawn" for smartphone screens. According to messages posted on Weibo by OnePlus and Digital Chat Station, the announcement is that BOE will manufacture a 3,000-nit panel for smartphones, which could be a game changer for the smartphone market. The soon-to-be-revealed display will offer 1440p resolution and support 2160Hz pulse width modulation (PWM) dimming.
Mobile Google’s new Pixel phones started shipping last week but there are already concerns over an apparent issue with the display on the Pro version of the new device.
According to various reports, some owners of the Pixel 8 Pro are seeing a yellow or pink tint on parts of the screen -- usually near the top or sides -- which apparently only shows up only when the device’s Always On Display is activated.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
