Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Phones Best Tablets Tesla Phone Download Android 14 Best Android Phones Home Mobile News The Google Pixel Watch is finally getting a long-awaited feature By Peter Hunt Szpytek Close Andy Boxall / Digital Trends The Google Pixel Watch has been routinely adding new features for owners to enjoy ever since it first launched last year, and now it appears that it’ll be getting a long-requested health feature.
Spotted first on Reddit , it seems like the Pixel Watch is now able to track blood oxygen levels (SpO2.) SpO2 tracking is a pretty common health feature on most other flagship smartwatches like the Apple Watch and Galaxy Watch , so the fact that it wasn’t included at launch on the Pixel Watch made it feel like it was missing a major feature.
What made the lack of SpO2 tracking even more of a head-scratcher was that the Pixel Watch has had the ability to track blood oxygen levels with its hardware since launch. A SpO2 sensor has been sitting dormant inside the watch, just waiting to be used. But it looks like that’s about to change soon.
Reddit user u/triforce28 The Pixel Watch has been able to provide estimated oxygen variation since its launch. However, that metric is less helpful than full-on SpO2 tracking, so it’s good to see that Pixel Watch owners will finally be able to measure an important aspect of their health with their watch even though it’s coming a little late.
So far, Google hasn’t officially said anything about the new feature, but at least one Pixel Watch owner is reporting the ability to see it for themselves when using the Fitbit Today app. The app lists a laundry list of health tracking that the Pixel Watch does while on a person’s wrist, and now “Oxygen Saturation” has been added to the list. When selected, the watch displays the SpO2 tracking it’s doing, as well as a brief explanation about how to interpret the information — just like the rest of the health features on the app.
It’s currently unclear what users should expect when it comes to the full rollout of SpO2 tracking since, as mentioned above, Google hasn’t said anything about it yet. Furthermore, the company has already published the Pixel Watch’s June update, which didn’t mention anything about the SpO2 capabilities. It’s possible that Google will drop the feature on a random day in the coming weeks. However, if that’s the case, it’s a little odd that it wouldn’t go live with the June update. That said, Google tends to be a little odd and throw curveballs at its user base from time to time, so we also wouldn’t be too shocked.
Editors' Recommendations Double Tap is the coolest Apple Watch feature I’ve used in ages I did a Pixel 8 and OnePlus 11 camera test. Picking a winner wasn’t easy I’ve had the Google Pixel 8 Pro for a month. Here’s why I’m keeping it 4 AI features I want in my next iPhone Heads up — your Google account may get deleted next month Android Google Google Pixel Tech News Wearables Mobile Android 14 is out now, and as usual, the first to get it is Google's own Pixel phone family. Samsung has already released the One UI 6 update based on Android 14 for its latest flagship phones and continues to test for older devices, while Nothing is still in the beta-testing phase.
If you're rocking an Android phone that is still stuck on an old Android build, here's everything that we know about official Android 14 rollout plans for all major brands available in the U.S. market.
Google Pixel phones Mobile Google Pixel 6 (left) with the Pixel 7 and Pixel 8. Andy Boxall / Digital Trends Almost every single review of the Google Pixel 8 and Google Pixel 8 Pro talks about how these two take us to the promised land of AI nirvana on smartphones. Google Assistant screening calls for you? Check. More intelligent smart reply suggestions? Of course, my lazy soul deserves that convenience. Enhanced zoom that relies on pixel-level image reconstruction to de-haze blurry edges? My Instagram dump would love that.
Mobile Once upon a time, you could buy a fitness tracker like a Fitbit, strap it on your wrist, and go about your life. There’d be a companion app that would sync with your tracker, giving you an in-depth look at your daily activity, health stats, and even sleep tracking. All of this data was available for free; you just had to buy the tracker itself. One and done.
But things aren’t so simple now. Sure, you do have smartwatches like the Apple Watch that can also keep track of your daily activity and health metrics, but there’s a whole other world of dedicated fitness and health trackers as well. These typically can provide even more in-depth data about your health and well-being, but a lot of them have, unfortunately, moved to subscription-based models. Though they may have free tiers available, they’re almost worthless with the information you get without paying.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
