Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Phones Best Tablets Tesla Phone Download Android 14 Best Android Phones Home Mobile News The Fitbit app just got its biggest update in years By Christine Romero-Chan Close Google If you’re still a loyal Fitbit user, big changes are starting to roll out to users today. The app has gone through a major redesign that is aimed at making things simpler than ever before. The new design also focuses on three tabs — Today, Coach, and You — to bring the health and wellness data that you actually care about front and center.
With the new Fitbit app, you can track your physical activity with or without a device. This means that you don’t even need a Fitbit device or Google Pixel Watch to count all the steps you take. Thanks to improved communication with your smartphone’s sensors, your phone will do the step counting instead, and the counts are going to be more accurate. You can even track a walk, run, or hike with just the app.
Just make sure that you connect your phone to the Fitbit app. Then it will automatically track steps or exercises directly on the Today view.
Google Speaking of the Today screen, it’s now easier than ever to customize the information you want to see to help motivate you toward your goals. On the Today tab, just select Edit and choose your focus based on personal goals. Some examples of these goals are to move more, sleep better, manage your stress, or anything in-between. With a focus set up, you can see the stats that are most important to achieving that goal.
Google The new Coach tab can help you find a workout that is tailored for you and your needs. You can quickly use filters to find a workout based on the type, duration, required equipment, instructor, and more. New content is added on a regular basis to help keep your mind and body fit. Those who have a Fitbit Premium subscription can also get access to more content, such as HIIT and dance cardio classes, as well as new workouts from Alo Moves and Tone It Up.
Google With all of these new features, you’ll have more health data than ever before. But sometimes, it can be hard to understand what all that data means. The new Fitbit app now has easy to understand charts that make your metrics and highlight patterns more digestible. Just tap on any metric to get more information about what it means for your own health and wellness.
Those who are concerned about privacy and safety shouldn’t worry. The new app also has easy to use privacy controls. You’ll have full control over what’s saved and shared in the app, which is backed by Google’s privacy and security features. You can review and manage your data right in the Fitbit app, and your information is not used for Google ads and is kept separate from Google ads data.
Google This new face-lift for the Fitbit app is refreshing to see. It’s overall much simpler than the previous version and helps you get to your goals faster by laying out the most important metrics in front of you. And if you don’t understand what a metric means, it helps you understand why it’s important for your well-being. The new Coach feature also helps you find better workouts fast, and everything is private and secure.
The redesigned Fitbit app is rolling out now, so keep an eye out on the Google Play Store and Apple App Store for the update to hit your device soon.
Editors' Recommendations One of our favorite Android phones just got its own iMessage app The Google Pixel 8 just got its first update. Here’s what’s new The Fitbit Charge 6 is a fitness tracker and smartwatch hybrid Google just dropped the date for its Pixel 8 and Pixel Watch 2 announcement Google Messages vs. Samsung Messages: Which app should you use? Fitbit Google Tech News Wearables Mobile Redesigned look of the Fitbit app Google The Fitbit app is getting a long-overdue redesign, and this one focuses on decluttering the UI and making it easier for users to find core information. Starting with the home page, it now offers a neat three-tab design divided across Today, Coach, and You.
Mobile Google’s current-gen Pixel smartphones are rewarding from multiple perspectives. They don’t cost as dishearteningly much as Samsung or Apple flagships. You get a consistently impressive camera experience. Plus, the software is pristine Android with a ton of convenient tricks.
Where the Pixels falter is raw performance and some nagging chip-adjacent problems. It’s not entirely Google’s fault, either. But if you were hoping for a turnaround, you might want to revise your hope scheduling. According to The Information, the “first fully customized chip” from the Tensor division won’t be here until 2025.
Mobile The Google Pixel Tablet isn't the first time we've tried this. It didn't end so well then and likely is going to disappear with a whimper again. And that's a shame.
The year was 2011. It was an exciting time for Android, with the manufacturers almost tripping over themselves to release new devices faster than those of us who covered the things for a living could keep up. It wasn't uncommon for a device announcement to actually see several new products drop at the same time. Between the evolution of the Android software, the progression of hardware it ran on, and the competition of the U.S. carriers to have the "fastest" network in all the land — things were moving fast.
Motorola already tried this 12 years ago Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
