Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Share Wi-Fi Password on iPhone How to Restart iPhone Screen Record on iPhone Back Up an iPhone Clear Cache on iPhone Share Location on iPhone Home Mobile Features Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? I figured out how to protect my iPhone without an ugly case By Andy Boxall Close Andy Boxall / Digital Trends I really didn’t want to put my iPhone 15 Pro Max in a case. Cases add bulk, reduce the attractiveness, and wouldn’t allow me to enjoy the vastly improved ergonomics or the feel of the titanium band around the chassis. So I vowed not to do it.
The return of the pouch Leather or fabric Just the right fit Better than a case and better than nothing However, I’m also realistic. My expensive new phone needs some protection, especially when it is being shaken around in my bag or placed on a table. The solution came from the past, as the product I chose brought me back to the way I protected the very first iPhone models I owned when cases were far less common than they are today.
The return of the pouch Andy Boxall / Digital Trends I’m talking about the humble phone pouch. The ones I remembered were as simple as “cases” get, as they were mostly made of fabric or leather, and while you could find them sized for a particular type of phone, there were plenty of universal ones around too. When the iPhone 3G was out, there were very few case options available, so getting one that you really liked was a bit of a challenge. I also had the same problem that exists today, in that they all add bulk and ruin the lines of the phone.
The pouch was a great alternative. It still protected the phone, just without adding anything extra to the device itself. I used them to house my iPhone 3G, iPhone 4, iPhone 5, and even my iPad. A company named “Foof” was one of my favorites, and I had “Foof Pods” for various iPhones and iPads. The pouches in the photos are ones I’ve used in the past and happened to find again recently. But when the iPhone 6 came along, pouches either became less available, or I found cases that I liked. As a result, I hadn’t thought about or used a phone pouch in years.
Andy Boxall / Digital Trends The idea came back to me as I wondered what to do this year. I’d been using an Apple FineWoven case while I worked on my iPhone 15 Pro Max vs iPhone 14 Pro camera comparison , and had also used an Apple silicone case with the iPhone 15 Plus during my review, yet I didn’t want to use either long-term. While I was happy to have remembered the pouch, finding a suitable one in 2023 turned out to be a little more difficult than I had hoped.
Leather or fabric Andy Boxall / Digital Trends Cases are so popular, and the range so varied, that there doesn’t seem to be much demand for anything else. Finding a pouch at all was going to need some research. The major brands certainly don’t seem to offer anything like one, so I turned to Amazon to see if they still even existed. I was pleased to see at least some examples, but I quickly realized I couldn’t be choosy.
The only prerequisite, outside of it being made for the iPhone 14 Pro Max or iPhone 15 Pro Max (they are both the same size), was that it was made of fabric and not leather. Leather pouches may look classy to some, but several had a belt clip on the back, much like a very popular choice (for some unknown reason) to house giant analog phones in the late 90s. I think they are best left in that decade. There were also several generic pouches made for phones with a certain screen size.
This essentially left me with very little choice — until I stumbled upon the one in my photos made by a company called Adore June.
 It makes slip cases, bags, and pouches for a wide range of products, and it was exactly what I was after. It’s made from Cordura fabric with a water-repellant Teflon coating, it’s sized specifically for the iPhone 15 Pro Max, plus it has a soft inner lining so it won’t scratch the screen or body. It was also a bargain at 15 British pounds, or about $18.
Just the right fit Andy Boxall / Digital Trends The Adore June sleeve is just about as simple as it gets. The black outer skin feels tough and hardwearing, yet still pleasingly tactile, while the lining is fleecy and soft. There’s a tab with the brand’s name on the side, giving it some character, and the iPhone 15 Pro Max slips in without any problem. It’s secure too, and won’t just slide out by accident. You have to physically pull it out. The sleeve is tight around the phone, though, so it won’t fit around one with a case.
This was fine with me. The whole reason I wanted a sleeve was to avoid using a case. It works really well, as I can keep it inside when the phone is in my bag or pocket, then just take it out when I want to use it. While I can’t see the always-on screen when it’s in the pouch, I place it on top of the sleeve instead of inside it when it’s on the desk or a table, like a soft little pillow, so I can see everything that’s going on.
I’ve successfully avoided a case but haven’t entirely sacrificed all protection, and I’ve returned to a long-forgotten product that defined how I kept my early iPhones safe for many years. It was always going to be a risk going case-less, and as the phone is a serious financial investment, it makes sense to give it some protection. The Adore June sleeve does exactly that while standing out because it’s not just another case, and all for a reasonable price too.
Better than a case and better than nothing Andy Boxall / Digital Trends All the time my iPhone is snuggled inside its sleeve, it will remain quite well protected. Even in a short drop, it should have a fighting chance of survival, as there is at least some cushioning around the sides and corners. When it’s out of the sleeve, that’s a different story, but it’s an accepted risk when making the decision not to use some kind of case. Even if I did use a case , they aren’t force fields, and there’s no guarantee it’ll ensure the phone won’t break if it gets dropped.
But the main thing is, I get to enjoy the iPhone 15 Pro Max the way Apple intended, not the way a case maker intended. I know I’m not the only one trying life without a case with the iPhone 15 series, so take a look at a sleeve if you’re searching for something to take away some of the inevitable anxiety of living so dangerously.
Editors' Recommendations It looks like the iPhone 16 will get a big design upgrade The iPhone is getting out of control I love Apple, but it’s totally wrong about iMessage and RCS The iPhone’s futuristic satellite tech isn’t coming to Android any time soon No, you really don’t need the iPhone 15 Apple Apple iPhone Features Mobile The iPhone 15 Pro and iPhone 15 Pro Max have an all-new titanium body, which is the standout feature from a design perspective. However, another hardware-related feature that's even more noteworthy for these models — and future iPhones over time — is the new Action button.
The Action button replaces the ring/silent switch on the left side of the iPhone 15 Pro and iPhone 15 Pro Max. You can assign one shortcut to the button through the Settings app, such as activating and using the Camera app or turning on the phone's flashlight. To assign the button, go into the Settings app on your supported iPhone. From there, choose the Action Button, then toggle to your selection. It's that simple.
Mobile As an avid Apple fan, I was surprised when I received the Samsung Galaxy Tab S9 FE for review and found myself loving it. Could Samsung continue to impress me? That's what I wanted to find out when I received the Galaxy S23 FE. This "fan edition" smartphone, which we just ran through its paces in our Samsung Galaxy S23 FE review, offers many of the same features as the other Galaxy S23 models, but at a slightly lower price.
My handset of choice has always been the latest iPhone Pro. This usually means purchasing the Pro Max model, which I did again this year with the iPhone 15 Pro Max. I didn't expect the Galaxy S23 FE to match up to my new iPhone, as the Apple device is double the price and offers much better specs.
Mobile Apple’s latest iPhone update has addressed an irksome bug that caused Apple Pay and other NFC features on iPhone 15 handsets to stop working after charging the device using BMW’s in-car wireless chargers.
Yes, it’s a somewhat peculiar problem, and troublesome, too, especially considering that it could also affect the proper operation of the BMW’s digital car key. But the good news is that Apple’s release of iOS 17.1.1 on Tuesday finally resolves it.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
