Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Phones Best Tablets Tesla Phone Download Android 14 Best Android Phones Home Mobile FCC proposal aims to block ringless spam voicemails By Jesse Hollington Close The Federal Communications Commission (FCC) has tabled a new proposal that promises to do even more to stop pesky telemarketers in their tracks. Over the past few years, the FCC has been actively working to crack down on robocalls.
 In late 2019, the U.S. Senate passed legislation requiring that carriers confirm the legitimacy of caller ID numbers and do everything they can to block robocalls from reaching their customers.
Now, FCC Chairwoman Jessica Rosenworcel is taking this a step further, with a proposal to block unwanted “ringless voicemail” robocalls.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Although the Pallone-Thune Telephone Robocall Abuse Criminal Enforcement and Deterrence (TRACED) Act prevents robocalls from ringing through to your phone, it doesn’t address the problem of telemarketers spamming your voicemail box with messages. As long as they don’t make your phone ring, it appears that your voicemail is still fair game.
Technically speaking, this should be covered by the 1991 Telephone Consumer Protection Act (TCPA), which already prohibits companies from using automated systems to make non-emergency calls to your mobile phone without your consent. Of course, if that worked, the 2019 TRACED Act wouldn’t have been necessary in the first place.
Truecaller brings AI-powered spam call filtering to any iOS or Android phone AT&T is the first carrier to turn on spam call blocking by default FCC could require carriers to block robocalls. Here’s why they didn’t before Lobbyist opposition It appears that at least one company has been trying to make sure the TCPA doesn’t apply to ringless voicemail. In March 2017, a company called All About the Message (AATM) petitioned the FCC to rule that the act doesn’t apply. AATM argues that “voicemail messages delivered directly to a voicemail service provider” aren’t technically “calls” and therefore fall outside the FCC’s regulations. In fact, AATM argues that “the commission lacks the authority to regulate voicemail service” at all.
Rosenworcel disagrees. In announcing the new proposal, which is in direct response to AATM’s petition, the FCCchairwoman noted that “ringless voicemail can be annoying, invasive, and can lead to fraud like other robocalls — so it should face the same consumer protection rules. No one wants to wade through voicemail spam, or miss important messages because their mailbox is full.” If this proposed action were to be approved by a vote of the full commission, it would effectively deny the AATM petition by deciding ringless voicemails are indeed “calls” that “require consumers’ prior express consent.” It’s not yet known when the FCC will actually hold a vote on this proposal, however. The matter doesn’t appear to be on the agenda for its next Open Commission Meeting , which is scheduled for February 18. There’s also no guarantee the FCC vote will actually favor the proposal, although fighting unwanted spam telemarketing calls has a great deal of popular support. It’s also not exactly a new item on the FCC’s agenda, either.
Editors' Recommendations Illegal robocall operation handed largest-ever fine by FCC Your favorite calendar apps can also get spam. Here’s how to block or report it The FCC is going after international robocallers with new measure Robocalls: Don’t be fooled by the one-ring scam, FCC warns Gmail blocks 100 million spam messages daily with its A.I., Google says News Tech News Mobile Do you feel as if you've gotten more spam calls than ever before this year? You're not alone. Spam-skimming Truecaller has released its report on spam calls in 2018, and it seems that spam calls are on the rise, with numbers of nuisance calls rising in a large portion of the top 20 countries.
Brazil was the hardest hit by the increase, seeing a staggeringly large increase of 81 percent, and going from 20.7 spam calls per user to 37.5 -- slightly more than one a day. Truecaller blames the Brazilian general election for the rise in calls, but also highlights a massive rise in scam calls, which went from 1 percent to 20 percent in just a single year. Operators maintain their notorious spot as the top spammers in Brazil though, sitting at 32 percent of all reported spam calls.
Mobile Google's popular line of Pixel devices includes smartphones, tablets, smartwatches, and wireless earbuds -- and they're all available with eye-catching discounts in this year's Black Friday deals. if you've had an eye on any one of them, you should take advantage of the offers that retailers have rolled out for the shopping holiday, and you need to act fast because stocks will run out quickly due to high demand. To help you out, we've rounded up our favorite Google Pixel Black Friday deals below.
Google Pixel Watch Black Friday deals The Google Pixel Watch 2 is already out, which means the Google Pixel Watch is a prime candidate for a discount on Black Friday. It's still a perfectly capable smartwatch though, even with the launch of its successor, as it runs on Google's Wear OS for access to a wide range of apps and health-monitoring features on your wrist. You need to push through with your purchase as soon as possible though, as stocks are already probably running low on most Black Friday smartwatch deals.
Mobile One of the biggest promises of 5G technology isn’t merely faster performance but rather the ability to power a far more connected world — a global network where every device can get online from just about anywhere.
That’s the vision behind MediaTek’s new M60 5G modem and T300 chip, which aim to be small and efficient enough to bring 5G to wearables, internet-of-things (IoT) devices, and other electronics that benefit from reliable internet connectivity but don’t require the massive speed and bandwidth of modern laptops and smartphones.
Reduced capability for greater efficiency Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
