Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Phones Best Tablets Tesla Phone Download Android 14 Best Android Phones Home Mobile News Robocall-blocking apps might be sending your private data to third parties By Emily Price Close Image used with permission by copyright holder If you get a ton of robocalls, installing an app promising to block them might sound like a good idea.
Robocalls are a huge problem , and a blocker seems like a quick and easy solution for improving the situation. Turns out, the apps might be violating your privacy starting from the second you open them.
A security consultant for the cybersecurity firm NCC Group took a look at some of the most popular robocall-blocking apps, and found a number of privacy violations, TechCrunch reports.
The apps they looked at include TrapCall, Hiya, and Truecaller. According to the firm, the apps will send user and/or device data to third-party analytics companies with the intent of monetizing your data, without asking for your expressed consent to do so. In many cases that information was also transmitted before a user was presented with the app’s privacy policy.
Sorry, but allowing third-party iPhone app stores is a bad idea The ugly side to Apple’s embrace of third-party App Store payments Apple’s first attempt to delay third-party app store payments fails in court According to the firm, those apps are in violation of Apple’s guidelines which require an app to gain permission from a user before it sends any data to third parties.
The consultant argues that most smartphone users don’t have a technical background and are not able to tell what information is being shared with third parties. A privacy policy, which let’s face it most people don’t read, it really the only chance a user has to know where their information is being shared.
NCC Group contacted all of the apps in question about the privacy issues, but none of them made any changes until the group contacted Apple, after which TrapCall updated its privacy policy. Truecaller has reportedly since fixed the issue that allowed data to be sent when the app is opened.
Robocalls are becoming an increasingly larger problem for cell phone users. In June, the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) voted to allow companies to block robocalls by default.
All of the major carriers in the United States currently offer some form of robocall blocking; however, customers have to opt-in for those services. The new FCC regulations allow carriers to block those calls without a user expressly opting in for them to do so — though some wireless providers will now charge you for the privilege.
Editors' Recommendations Trusting mobile apps to identify plants might cost you your life Apple may do the unthinkable — allow third-party iPhone app stores WhatsApp Communities want to be your private social media Which apps share your data the most? How to make group calls on your smartphone in WhatsApp Tech News Mobile By now, it's well-known that Apple does not encrypt your iCloud backups, but there's no need to fret. There are plenty of other ways to accomplish the task of securely backing up your data to the cloud. Several services offer more secure storage with various encryption options. Here are the iOS apps to consider if privacy is your thing.
Tresorit Tresorit offers encryption services for business, enterprise, and personal users. Secured with AES 256 end-to-end encryption, your files are safe both on the company’s servers and while in-transit to your device. Tresorit stores your data across multiple Microsoft Azure data centers in the European Union. The company is headquartered in Switzerland, which has stricter privacy laws than most other countries, including the U.S. Tresorit features include document version tracking and the ability to share drive documents securely. Prices range from free to $24 per month.
News Amazon Ring’s Android app has been found to allow third-party trackers access to your data like your name, IP address, mobile network carrier, and more.
The Electronic Frontier Foundation (EFF) published a report on Monday, January 27, about an investigation into Ring’s Android app. The investigation found analytics and marketing companies not mentioned in Ring’s privacy notice have access to your data directly through the Ring app.
Mobile iOS 13 has had a turbulent first few weeks as users continue to discover a new glitch seemingly every other day. Apple has quickly come to the rescue by releasing iOS 13.1 a week early but it turns out, the update doesn’t squash all the bugs.
In a brief advisory, Apple has warned iPhone and iPad owners about a bug concerning third-party keyboards. The issue allows any installed third-party keyboard like Gboard or Swiftkey to grant themselves "full-access" permissions -- without your authorization.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
