Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Share Wi-Fi Password on iPhone How to Restart iPhone Screen Record on iPhone Back Up an iPhone Clear Cache on iPhone Share Location on iPhone Home Mobile Guides How to block calls on an iPhone By Simon Hill and Simon Chandler Close There’s no getting around it: There will always be people you just don’t want to talk to. For many of us, those unwanted calls come in the form of persistent ex-lovers trying to rekindle what has been lost or telemarketers offering an “all-expenses-paid” luxury cruise to a tropical island off the southern tip of Costa Rica. Thankfully, there’s a choice of methods for blocking pesky callers. You can use settings in Apple’s mobile operating system, the iBlacklist app, Do Not Disturb mode, or some other third-party call-blocking apps. Whether the separation is merely temporary or more permanent is entirely up to you.
Block calls using iOS 7 and later Download and install the latest iOS Navigate to the Blocked Contacts menu Block the number Alternative blocking method Block calls using iBlacklist (iOS 3 and later) Navigate to the iBlacklist app Download and install the iBlacklist app Toggle blocked forms of communication Set action for blocked calls Block calls using your phone’s Do Not Disturb mode (iOS 6 and later) Download and install the latest compatible iOS Open the Do Not Disturb settings Set the utility specifics Activate the Do Not Disturb mode Block calls at the carrier level If you’ve got an online account with Sprint Use T-Mobile to block numbers Using AT&T to block calls Blocking calls with Verizon Call-blocking apps Hiya (Free) Call Bliss ($10) TrueCaller (free with premium version) TrapCall ($5 to $20 per month) Difficulty Duration What You Need Apple iPhone Here’s our how-to guide on blocking calls with an Apple iPhone regardless of your OS version. It’s quite easy to bar any known number from contacting you via phone calls, messages, and FaceTime, but there are various limitations to your different call-blocking options.
Block calls using iOS 7 and later Apple has a built-in call-blocking utility in its iOS operating system. This feature, coupled with all versions of iOS since the release of iOS 7, allows you to quickly block calls, messages, and FaceTime requests without using external software or third-party apps. It’s a welcome and convenient inclusion — one accessible through both your iPhone’s settings menu and contact list — but one that’s also only available on the iPhone 4 and later, iPad 2 and later, iPad Mini, and fifth-generation iPod Touch.
Once it’s properly set up, blocked calls will automatically be routed to your voicemail. There will be no indication a call, text, or FaceTime request has been received on your end, but sent receipts and other indications will still appear on the sender’s device as they would normally — meaning the sender will not be alerted of your decision to block them. Call-blocking is a one-way street when using iOS 7 and later, so you can still contact blocked numbers via phone call, text, and FaceTime with no hindrance if you should decide that you want to.
Download and install the latest iOS If you haven’t already, back up your device and upgrade to the latest iOS via iTunes or your Wi-Fi network.
Step 1: Tap the main Settings icon from your smartphone’s home screen.
Step 2: Select the General option near the top of the resulting menu.
Step 3: Tap Software Update.
Step 4: Ensure your device is connected to a power source and tap the Download and Install button.
Navigate to the Blocked Contacts menu Step 1: Tap the main Settings icon when viewing the home screen.
Step 2: Scroll down and tap Phone.
Step 3: On the resulting screen, under the Calls section, you’ll find a menu item listed as Blocked Contacts (it will be listed as Call Blocking & Identification on iOS 11 and earlier versions). This will take you to a page where you can add a number to block; it also shows numbers you’ve blocked so far.
Block the number Step 1: Tap the blue Add New… button and select the desired number you wish to block from the resulting contact list.
Step 2: To unblock a user, simply tap the Edit option in the top-right corner of the Blocked Contacts page, followed by the red subtraction sign directly beside the user you wish to unblock.
Step 3: Afterward, tap the red Unblock button to confirm the changes.
Alternative blocking method Step 1: Tap the Phone icon while viewing the home screen.
Step 2: Select either all calls or missed calls and tap the information icon to the right of the number you wish to block.
Step 3: Scroll to the bottom of the resulting info panel, and tap the blue Block this Caller option, followed by Block Contact to confirm the request.
Block calls using iBlacklist (iOS 3 and later) Not everyone has the option to upgrade to the latest iOS version given the hardware limitations of older devices. Luckily, the iBlacklist app does a fantastic job of blocking both calls and texts from specific people or unknown numbers if you’re willing to risk jailbreaking your iPhone and shelling out an additional $12 in the Cydia app store. It’s not a difficult or lengthy process, but it’s one effective way to block unwanted communication. Check out the iBlacklist manual at the top of the application’s website for a detailed, photo-laden rundown of the software and all of its features.
Navigate to the iBlacklist app To begin, tap the Cydia icon on your phone.
Step 1: Search for iBlacklist in the search tab.
Step 2: Select the app from the search results. We’re assuming you’ve already jailbroken your iPhone and have access to the Cydia app. If not, refer to our guide on how to jailbreak your iPhone to unlock the alternate store.
Important Note: Jailbreaking your iPhone voids your warranty and opens your smartphone up to a slew of stability and security issues. If this is even slightly worrying to you, please avoid this route.
Download and install the iBlacklist app Step 1: Follow the on-screen instructions for downloading and purchasing iBlacklist.
Step 2: When done downloading, click Close Window to close Cydia and return to your homescreen. You may have to restart your phone before the changes will take effect.
Block the number Step 1: Scroll through your apps to find the iBlacklist icon and open up the app.
Step 2: Tap Blacklists from the main menu to access your current blacklisted groups and numbers.
Step 3: To add a new number, tap Add new Blacklist , and select Import from Address Book to block an entire contact list.
Step 4: Alternatively, select General BL , and tap the + sign in the upper-right-hand corner to add individual contacts from your address book , recent calls list, or recent SMS list, or to manually enter a number and accompanying contact info.
Toggle blocked forms of communication After you’ve entered the contact to be blocked, look for the red call icon on the configuration role.
Step 1: Set the switch to On to block incoming calls from that contact.
Step 2: You can also block SMS, MMS, and FaceTime by toggling the switches next to the red icons for each form of communication.
Set action for blocked calls Step 1: Now you’ll need to tap Action when viewing a contact to choose your desired action when the unwanted call comes in.
Step 2: You can choose to accept the call, immediately accept and hang up, send the caller straight to voicemail, issue a busy signal, or block the call before your phone even rings.
Step 3: When finished, close the contact and the changes will be automatically saved.
Step 4: Continue blocking people in the same manner until you’re satisfied with your blacklist.
Block calls using your phone’s Do Not Disturb mode (iOS 6 and later) Although iBlacklist is the best option for blocking calls for those lacking the latest iOS, it may not be the most enticing.
The built-in Do Not Disturb mode in iOS can accomplish the blocking task to a certain degree, but it essentially works in reverse. Instead of receiving incoming calls from everyone but the contacts you block, the tool will actually block incoming calls from everyone but the contacts you allow. It’s overkill, yes, but a nice option if you want to drop off the radar for a spell and only receive calls from a select few individuals. This option is available for older devices compatible with iOS 6 or later.
Download and install the latest compatible iOS Step 1: If you haven’t already, back up your device and upgrade iOS via iTunes or your Wi-Fi network.
Step 2: To do so using the latter option, tap the main Settings icon from your smartphone’s home screen.
Step 3: Select the General option near the top of the resulting menu.
Step 4: Tap Software Update on the resulting screen.
Step 5: Afterward, ensure your device is connected to a power source.
Step 6: Tap the Download and Install button.
Open the Do Not Disturb settings Step 1: Click the Settings icon with the gears.
Step 2: Tap the Do Not Disturb option.
Set the utility specifics Once opened, you can schedule the mode to automatically turn on during specified hours of the day and select the contacts you wish to receive calls from.
Step 1: Choose the Allow Calls From option.
Step 2: Choose favorites to allow calls from contacts on your favorites list. You can select No One , Favorites , or Everyone (which seems counterintuitive, if you ask us). You can also choose to allow calls from contact groups you’ve previously created.
Step 3: There’s also an option to toggle on Repeated Calls , an option that doesn’t silence phone calls from the same person if they call you more than once within three minutes.
Activate the Do Not Disturb mode Step 1: Toggle on the Do Not Disturb mode from your iPhone’s main settings or from the Control Center to initiate the function.
Step 2: When active, a crescent moon icon will appear to the left of the clock at the top of your phone, indicating that the comprehensive blocking feature is in full effect.
Block calls at the carrier level If no amount of finagling gets call screening working properly on your iPhone, there’s the nuclear option: Carrier-level blocking. All four major networks offer the service for their postpaid customers, albeit not without restrictions.
If you’ve got an online account with Sprint Step 1: Log in to Sprint.com.
Step 2: Navigate to the My Preferences tab.
Step 3: Tap Limits and Permissions.
Step 4: Tap Block voice.
Step 5: From there, you can select the phone numbers you’d like to block, or block all outbound and/or inbound voice calls for however long you wish.
Use T-Mobile to block numbers Step 1: Sign in to your account.
Step 2: Then click Tools.
Step 3: Tap Family Allowance.
Step 4: Click Access Family Allowances.
Step 5: From the Blocking Numbers menu, you can choose up to 10 contacts.
Using AT&T to block calls AT&T offers a Call Protect app that allows subscribers to block individual numbers — but only for up to 30 days at a time. It also features automatic fraud blocking and suspected spam warnings. The automatic fraud blocking feature can be modified to let specific numbers through if you find it ends up blocking wanted calls.
Blocking calls with Verizon Verizon also makes permanent blocking a hassle, though it is possible.
Step 1: To block a caller, log in to your account.
Step 2: Go to Account.
Step 3: Tap My Plan.
Step 4: Tap Blocks.
Step 5: Select your device.
Step 6: Then click Block Calls & Messages.
Step 7: Enter the number you’d like to block.
You’re limited to blocking only five numbers, and they’ll reset every 90 days — permanent blocking requires Verizon’s $5 a month Smart Family plan.
Call-blocking apps Sometimes, built-in settings and carrier-level blocking don’t provide the level of customization you desire. That’s where third-party apps come in. Many services sport spam databases and location-based blocking far more versatile than any iOS options, and at the very least should help prevent that out-of-state political campaigner who keeps asking for your Social Security number from ever calling again.
Important Note: A word of warning before you install one of these call-blocking apps — it’s wise to read up on their privacy policies as it’s not unusual for them to collect data on you and your contacts and share it or sell it to other companies.
Hiya (Free) Hiya , formerly known as Whitepages ID, has become one of the most popular options for easy, free call blocking — and for good reason. In addition to offering a customizable block list, Hiya also touts “the world’s most advanced phone spam protection engine.” Alerts can warn you about the nature of incoming calls, and reverse number lookup gives you even greater control than iOS’ built-in functionality, as well as most third-party apps. Hiya’s technology is used by carriers and manufacturers like T-Mobile and Samsung.
IOS Image used with permission by copyright holder Call Bliss ($10) Call Bliss gives you the option of blocking numbers based on factors like time of day, location, or activity. An example of this could be blocking all calls from the office when you are at home or the gym. Another option could be to create groupings of contacts depending on their relationship to you (friends, family, or work associates) and restrict calls from each group during certain activities or times of the day. There’s a master blacklist option, and a “Suppress All Callers” mode to send all calls to voicemail.
IOS TrueCaller (free with premium version) Truecaller is another well-known app among iPhone users and boasts many of the same features. You don’t have to worry about pesky solicitations or automated spam calls as Truecaller will detect them, squash their calls, and prohibit them from calling again. There’s a standard block list, and the ability to search the company’s massive database of names and numbers. If you’re using the app for free, there is a limit on how many contacts you can look up, but a Professional subscription — which costs $2 a month or $18 a year — raises that limit and also removes ads.
IOS Image used with permission by copyright holder TrapCall ($5 to $20 per month) TrapCall, a paid service, takes a different approach to number filtering. Rather than block calls indiscriminately, any number the service identifies as blocked or restricted is automatically “unmasked” when you reject the call; TrapCall collects the name, address, and phone number of callers without caller ID. You’ll then receive a text message from the app with the data it has collected from the caller.
IOS Editors' Recommendations The best iPhone 15 Pro Max screen protectors in 2023 It looks like the iPhone 16 will get a big design upgrade It’s finally happening — your iPhone is getting RCS in 2024 How to unblock a number on your iPhone The iPhone is getting out of control Apple How-To Apple Apple iPhone How-To Guides Mobile Updated from an older iPhone to the new iPhone 15? You may have noticed that your notifications have changed. Where once they sat nestled at the top, now, they appear at the bottom, stacked atop one another. It's a relatively small change, but an important one, as it dramatically changes how and where you find your notifications.
Mobile Nothing is trying to bridge the great blue/green bubble divide for Android users of iMessage. This is not a personal crusade to shatter walls and open windows, as much as Nothing CEO Carl Pei would want you to believe that. Instead, Nothing is piggybacking on tech created by New York-based startup Sunbird.
Technically, the Sunbird app can be installed on any Android phone and it features a blue bubble for all iMessage text exchanges involving an Android phone. No more green bubble shame that could get you kicked out of groups for disrupting the harmony or even slim your dating chances. That’s how bad it is! Nothing is adopting the Sunbird tech and bundling it as its very own app under the name Nothing Chats. But here’s the fun part. The app only works on the Nothing Phone 2 and not the Nothing Phone 1. And this life-altering boon will only be bestowed upon users in the U.S., Canada, the U.K., or the EU bloc.
The app is currently in the beta phase, which means some iMessage features will be broken or absent. Once the app is downloaded on your Nothing Phone 2, you can create a new account or sign up with your Apple ID to get going with blue bubble texts.
Just in case you’re concerned, all messages will be end-to-end encrypted, and the app doesn’t collect any personal information, such as the users’ geographic location or the texts exchanged. Right now, Sunbird and Nothing have not detailed the iMessage features and those that are broken.
We made iMessage for Android...
The Washington Post tried an early version of the Nothing Chats app and notes that the blue bubble system works just fine. Texts between an Android device and an iPhone are neatly arranged in a thread, and multimedia exchange is also allowed at full quality.
However, message editing is apparently not available, and a double-tap gesture for responding with a quick emoji doesn’t work either. We don’t know when these features will be added. Nothing's Sunbird-based app will expand to other territories soon.
Sunbird, however, offers a handful of other tricks aside from serving the iMessage blue bubble on Android. It also brings all your other messaging apps, such as WhatsApp and Instagram, in one place. This isn’t an original formula, as Beeper offers the same convenience.
Mobile Every year, we get a new iPhone; that’s just the way it goes. And one of the biggest upgrades each year is with the camera system.
Though the spotlight is typically on the Pro models of the iPhone, Apple gave us a pretty significant upgrade this year with the standard iPhone 15. Of course, it’s not as feature-packed as the iPhone 15 Pro, but Apple brought the Dynamic Island and USB-C to the regular iPhone 15, and even bumped up the camera to a whopping 48MP.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
