Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Phones Best Tablets Tesla Phone Download Android 14 Best Android Phones Home Mobile Guides How to check your IMEI number on any iPhone or Android phone By Jackie Dove and Mark Jansen Close Every cell phone — whether iPhone, Android, or plain and simple dumb phone — has a unique International Mobile Equipment Identity (IMEI) number that can be used to identify it. This number is exceptionally important, as it can be used for a number of different purposes, from verifying whether a device has been reported as stolen, to confirming your phone for trade-in purposes. There are different reasons you might need to know your IMEI, and there are a few ways you can get your hands on it when needed.
How to find the IMEI number of any smartphone How to find the IMEI number of an Android phone How to find the IMEI number of an iPhone How to find the IMEI number on your phone's box Difficulty Duration What You Need iPhone or Android device The box your phone came in Not sure where to find your IMEI number? Not a problem, we've got the guide for you right here. Here's how to find your IMEI number on any cell phone, whether it's an Android phone, iPhone, or dumb phone.
While we're at it, we've also got guides on how to discover your own phone number , your Android or iPhone's model number , and how to find a lost cell phone of any type.
Please note: Be sure not to share your IMEI widely. IMEI numbers can be used to blacklist devices so that they don’t work, rendering them useless, so it's not hard to see how a malicious party could easily disrupt your phone, or even clone it for nefarious purposes.
Joe Maring / Digital Trends How to find the IMEI number of any smartphone There's a quick and easy way to discover your IMEI built into many cell phones, and all you need is your phone dialer.
This method should work with a large number of phones, and we teted it out on a Google Pixel 7 Pro , iPhone 8 , and Samsung Galaxy Note 20 and it worked each time. However, it's not a foolproof method, and may not work for every phone. If you're having issues, make sure you're using your phone's default dialer app (so no using True Caller or similar apps) to enter the number. Otherwise, check further down the list to try one of the other methods.
Step 1: To get your IMEI number, dial *#06#. There's no need to press the dial key.
Step 2: After you type that code into your phone’s keypad, you’ll get a pop-up that has your IMEI number and other important phone information.
It’s finally happening — your iPhone is getting RCS in 2024 How to unblock a number on your iPhone iOS 17: How to move notifications to the top of your lock screen Joe Maring / Digital Trends How to find the IMEI number of an Android phone On Android phones , you can find the IMEI number in the Settings menu. The exact route may be different for each Android phone's brand, but in general, you should be able to find it somewhere under the About phone menu in Settings.
Step 1: Head to the Settings app either by opening the app drawer, or by pulling down twice on the notification shade and selecting the cogwheel.
Step 2: Head to About phone.
 You may need to scroll down, or access more options like Status or Status information.
 Most phones we tested had the information freely available from the Status screen though.
Joe Maring / Digital Trends How to find the IMEI number of an iPhone While the dialer option worked for us on an iPhone 8, if it doesn't work for you then there are other ways to find your IMEI number on an iPhone.
Step 1: Go to Settings > General > About.
Step 2: Scroll down to find the IMEI entry in the list. You can also touch and hold the number to copy it to the clipboard and then paste it somewhere else, such as in Notes or a text.
Image used with permission by copyright holder How to find the IMEI number on your phone's box If your iPhone or Android phone has been stolen and you forgot to check and write down the IMEI number, it’s still possible to locate it. If you’ve kept the box your phone came in when you purchased it, you’re in luck, because it usually displays the IMEI number on a sticker on one of its sides.
Editors' Recommendations It looks like the iPhone 16 will get a big design upgrade How I use my Apple Watch and iPhone to manage my diabetes The iPhone is getting out of control One of our favorite Android phones just got its own iMessage app This iPhone 15 and iPhone 14 camera test is closer than I expected Android Apple How-To Android Apple Google How-To Guides Mobile The iPhone has so many clever and fun little features that it's easy to miss some of them. One of the most whimsical features to come along in recent years is the ability to lift the subject of a photo away from the background so you can use it elsewhere — whether that's sharing it in an email, pasting it into a photo editing app, or even turning it into an iMessage sticker in iOS 17.
What's especially fascinating about this is that it seems like such a simple thing to do — and Apple does make it really easy — but there's a ton of number crunching going on under the hood to make it happen. This means you'll need an iPhone with a reasonably modern processor, but the good news is that it doesn't have to be the latest and greatest iPhone 15 Pro. While the insanely powerful A17 Pro chip in Apple's flagship smartphone surely helps things along, this feature can be used on any iPhone with an A12 Bionic chip or later, which goes back to the 2018 iPhone XS and iPhone XR.
Mobile Duolingo is a top-rated language-learning app known for its unique approach to learning. Unlike similar solutions, Duolingo makes learning fun and engaging by turning each step into a game. Whether using the app on your iPhone or Android, you can choose from over 30 languages to learn. Adding another language to your account is easy once you are ready to move on to the next one.
Mobile iOS 17 is the latest version of Apple's mobile operating software, and as usual, it's brought with it plenty of new features and changes to get excited about. While not the biggest update around (it's telling when one of the major changes mentioned is the ability to send your contact information by AirDrop), iOS 17 is still worth paying attention to and getting if you have a compatible iPhone.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
