Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Phones Best Tablets Tesla Phone Download Android 14 Best Android Phones Home Mobile Guides Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Unlocking your phone is legal again: What you need to know By Williams Pelegrin Close Image: Flickr Image used with permission by copyright holder For almost two years, it was illegal to unlock your new smartphone. Now carriers’ grip on users’ smartphones has been loosened by several key pieces of legislation. As of February 11, no carrier can deny a request to unlock a users’ phone, once the two-year contract is paid up.
This past August, President Barack Obama signed the Unlocking Consumer Choice and Wireless Competition Act into law , finally making it legal once more to unlock your phone. Additionally, back in 2013, the Cellular Telephone Industries Association (CTIA) and Federal Communications Commission (FCC) convinced several U.S. carriers to agree to new smartphone unlocking rules by February 11, 2015. Now, the deadline to comply with the CTIA’s rules is here, so anyone whose two-year contract is up can ask their carrier to unlock their smartphone , and the carrier must do so without complaint.
Here, we’ll answer all the pertinent questions about the new unlock rule.
Updated on 02-11-2015 by Malarie Gokey: Added news that carriers must now unlock your phone if you ask, so long as your two-year contract is up.
How did the law come about? The new law originally started as a petition created by a digital rights activist on the White House’s We The People website, where you can post ideas for the government to mull over. More than 114,000 people signed the petition, with the huge response prompting the FCC to work with Congress, networks, and the government to come up with some kind of a solution.
The result was the Unlocking Consumer Choice and Wireless Competition Act, which made its way through the U.S. House of Representatives back in February. However, that version of the bill disallowed cell phone unlocking in order to conduct “bulk unlocking,” something that caught the eye of digital rights activists. In other words, businesses wouldn’t be allowed to buy phones en masse, unlock them, and proceed to sell them.
Related: Cell phone unlocking bill passes through U.S. House, but advocates are not happy with it The version of the act that passed the Senate on July 16 eliminated that part, thus paving the way into becoming a law. This makes it the first piece of legislation that originally began as a petition on We The People.
Why was it illegal to unlock a smartphone? Every three years, the Library reviews the specific rules of the Digital Millenium Copyright Act (DMCA) and makes exemptions allowed under the law. In 2006, the Library decided that phone unlocking should be exempted under DMCA. But that changed in October 2012, when the Library did not renew the exemption.
 The Library’s justification was that unlocking a phone required making changes to its firmware – software that is copyrighted and owned by your carrier – which would be a violation of the DMCA.
Why did the rule change? Because the Library was convinced, for a number of reasons, that allowing unlocking was no longer a necessary exemption.
The primary reason cited by the Library is, there are an increasing number of phones you can buy that come unlocked. Apple and its carrier partners sell the iPhone 5S unlocked, for example. Google’s Nexus 5 also comes unlocked. Finally, retailers like Best Buy offer all sorts of unlocked phones.
 In short, the Library decided that there was no reason to alter the DMCA to allow people to unlock any phone since people can easily buy an unlocked phone nowadays, if they choose to do so.
Related: Stick it to the man! Phone unlocking skyrockets 70 percent since becoming illegal Furthermore, new court decisions changed the interpretation of the law. In 2010, the Ninth Circuit court decided in Vernor v. Autodesk, Inc that we cell phone owners do not actually “own” the software running our phones. Instead, we are only “licensing” this software – a key difference – which means that we don’t have a right to alter that software. This also played a role in the Library’s decision.
Is it legal to unlock all smartphones? Based on the language of the bill, you can bring any smartphone , new or old, to someone and have that person unlock it for you without infringing on the law. While you could already unlock your phone through your carrier, there were, and still are, many hoops you have to jump through.
AT&T will let you unlock your device permanently, provided your contract has already expired. AT&T customers still on contract may unlock their devices up to five times per year (for international travel purposes), as long as they don’t owe any past-due amount on their accounts, and have been a customer for 60 days or more. You can see the full rules here or simply fill out the unlock request here.
Meanwhile, while some Verizon devices are sold unlocked, others are not. However, like AT&T, customers in good standing can request to have their devices unlocked for international travel. You can see the full rules here or call Verizon at 1-800-711-8300 and ask for a SIM unlock.
Related: T-Mobile surpasses Sprint to become the top prepaid phone service in the U.S.
Sprint will allow customers to unlock their devices for travel after three months with the carrier. You can also call 1-888-211-4727 to unlock your phone or join a Web chat to do so.
Full rules are here.
As for T-Mobile, while they no longer offer standard two-year contracts, letting you pay for the device in monthly installments, that doesn’t mean you’re buying an unlocked device. To unlock a device on T-Mobile, you must first see whether you’re a postpaid or prepaid customer and go from there. You can call 1-877-746-0909 or request an unlock through a Web chat.
Full explanation is here.
How does the unlocking process work? Some carriers may even unlock your device automatically and remotely, without you having to do anything, but others will require a formal request. Regardless, the carriers must either unlock the device themselves, give you instructions on how to do so, or facilitate the process through your phone’s manufacturer. Although most carriers won’t automatically unlock your device once you’re eligible, the FCC says the participating providers will alert you when your device is eligible for unlocking.
If your device is not eligible, the carrier must explain why it won’t unlock your phone in an easy to understand manner. However, carriers are required to unlock users’ phones when asked, provided that the two-year contract has expired, or you’ve paid off your phone.
Those who have prepaid phones will get a similar alert at the point of sale, the time of eligibility, or in a short blurb on the carrier’s website. The new rules state that every prepaid carrier must unlock users’ phones one year after it was purchased and activated.
It is also forbidden for carriers to charge you to unlock your phone.
What are the benefits of an unlocked phone? Unlocked phones can be freely used on other networks simply by swapping out the SIM card. So if you’re an AT&T customer, and you want to take the phone you have to T-Mobile, you could do so very easily with an unlocked phone.
The most common beneficiaries of unlocked phones are world travelers. Say you have an unlocked iPhone 5S; you could take your device to Europe, for example, buy a pre-paid SIM card (which is readily available there) and use your phone on the local network, allowing you to avoid exorbitant roaming fees.
What are the downsides of unlocked phones? If you’re buying a new unlocked phone, it will cost you far more money up front than a carrier-locked device. A 16GB unlocked iPhone 5S, for instance, will cost you $650. Buy the same phone through AT&T, Sprint, or Verizon, and you’ll pay just $200 thanks to carrier subsidies – but you also have to agree to a two-year contract. In the long run, you will likely end up paying more for your locked device than for an unlocked one.
Is jailbreaking the same as unlocking? No.
Jailbreaking allows you to run apps on your device that you couldn’t with an un-jailbroken phone, such as iOS apps that are not available through the iTunes App Store. But jailbreaking does not let you switch to a different carrier. Also, jailbreaking is still completely legal under the DMCA.
Is this law permanent? No.
While the law does allow you to unlock your phone, it is not a permanent solution. At its core, the law requires the Library to put the previous DMCA exemption that allowed for cell phone unlocking back in place. The exemption will expire next year, which will put us in the same situation as we were in back in 2012.
Related: Awesome new bill legalizes cell phone unlocking, “fixes” the DMCA However, many are hopeful that the Unlocking Consumer Choice and Wireless Competition Act paves the way towards permanent legalization of cell phone unlocking, with Representative Zoe Lofgren (D-Calif.) having tried to do just that with the Unlocking Technology Act of 2013. While it was shot down, Open Signal founder Sina Khanifar launched FixTheDMCA.org in the hopes of amending the DMCA’s controversial anti-circumvention provisions.
Article originally written by Andrew Couts in January 2013.
Updated on 08-08-2014 by Williams Pelegrin: Cell phone unlocking is now legal. Sections have been added and edited to reflect the new law going into effect.
Editors' Recommendations Does the iPhone 15 break easily? What you really need to know What is an eSIM? Here’s everything you need to know What is Vudu? Here’s everything you need to know Android Apple News Android Apple Google Tech News Mobile Google's popular line of Pixel devices includes smartphones, tablets, smartwatches, and wireless earbuds -- and they're all available with eye-catching discounts in this year's Black Friday deals. if you've had an eye on any one of them, you should take advantage of the offers that retailers have rolled out for the shopping holiday, and you need to act fast because stocks will run out quickly due to high demand. To help you out, we've rounded up our favorite Google Pixel Black Friday deals below.
Google Pixel Watch Black Friday deals The Google Pixel Watch 2 is already out, which means the Google Pixel Watch is a prime candidate for a discount on Black Friday. It's still a perfectly capable smartwatch though, even with the launch of its successor, as it runs on Google's Wear OS for access to a wide range of apps and health-monitoring features on your wrist. You need to push through with your purchase as soon as possible though, as stocks are already probably running low on most Black Friday smartwatch deals.
Mobile One of the biggest promises of 5G technology isn’t merely faster performance but rather the ability to power a far more connected world — a global network where every device can get online from just about anywhere.
That’s the vision behind MediaTek’s new M60 5G modem and T300 chip, which aim to be small and efficient enough to bring 5G to wearables, internet-of-things (IoT) devices, and other electronics that benefit from reliable internet connectivity but don’t require the massive speed and bandwidth of modern laptops and smartphones.
Reduced capability for greater efficiency Mobile Amazon Fire tablets may not be as powerful as Apple's iPads and Samsung's Galaxy Tabs, but they remain very popular among shoppers because they're relatively affordable options that provide sufficient performance for day-to-day use. If you want to stick to a tight budget when buying from Black Friday tablet deals, you should consider going for one of the several models of the Amazon Fire tablet, available in Amazon Black Friday deals. To help you make a quick decision so you can finalize your purchase before the discounts go offline, we've rounded up the most interesting Black Friday deals for Amazon Fire tablets, including our favorite bargain.
Amazon has a ton of early discounts right now, including Amazon Echo Black Friday deals and Amazon Fire TV Black Friday deals.
The best Amazon Fire tablet Black Friday deal Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
