Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Phones Best Tablets Tesla Phone Download Android 14 Best Android Phones Home Mobile Products Apple iPad (2022) vs. iPad Air (2022): Should you spend $449 or $599? By Jesse Hollington Close Apple has made a pretty big splash with this year’s release of the 10th-generation iPad (2022) , leaving its classic tablet design behind and bringing the entry-level iPad into harmony with the modern aesthetic of its higher-end models.
iPad versus iPad Air specs iPad versus iPad Air design and display iPad versus iPad Air performance iPad versus iPad Air battery life and charging iPad versus iPad Air cameras iPad versus iPad Air software and updates iPad versus iPad Air special features iPad versus iPad Air price and availability Overall winner: iPad Air (2022) This change is more than skin-deep. The iPad (2022) doesn’t just get the new design language of its more premium siblings; it also receives some boosts to its specs to bring it closer to the iPad Air (2022) — plus a slightly increased price tag to match.
Joe Maring/Digital Trends With the iPad and iPad Air closer in design, specs, and performance than ever before, it’s a tougher call this year as to which one is worth spending your money on. Read on as we compare the two iPads head to head.
iPad versus iPad Air specs Apple iPad (2022) Apple iPad Air (2022) Size 248.6 by 179.5 by 0.28mm (9.79 by 7.07 by 0.28 inches) 247.6 by 178.5 by 6.1mm (9.74 by 7.02 by 0.24 inches) Weight Wi-Fi: 477 grams (1.05 pounds) Wi-Fi + Cellular: 481 grams (1.06 pounds) Wi-Fi: 461 grams (1.02 pounds) Wi-Fi + Cellular: 462 grams (1.02 pounds) Screen 10.9-inch Liquid Retina display with True Tone 10.9-inch laminated Liquid Retina display with True Tone and antireflective coating Screen resolution 2360 x 1640 at 264 pixels per inch 2360 x 1640 at 264 ppi Operating system iPadOS 16 iPadOS 16 Storage 64GB, 256GB 64GB, 256GB MicroSD card slot No No Processor Apple A14 Bionic Apple M1 Camera Rear: 12-megapixel wide Front: 12MP landscape ultrawide Rear: 12MP wide Front: 12MP ultrawide Video 4K at up to 60 frames per second 4K at up to 60 fps Bluetooth version Bluetooth 5.2 Bluetooth 5.0 Ports USB-C USB-C Fingerprint sensor Touch ID Touch ID Water resistance None None Battery Up to 10 hours on Wi-Fi, nine hours on cellular Up to 10 hours on Wi-Fi, nine hours on cellular App marketplace Apple App Store Apple App Store Network support Wi-Fi 6 (802.11ax) 5G (Sub-6, cellular models only) Wi-Fi 6 (802.11ax) 5G (Sub-6, cellular models only) Accessory compatibility Apple Pencil (1st-gen) Magic Keyboard Folio Apple Pencil (2nd-gen) Magic Keyboard, Smart Keyboard Folio Colors Blue, pink, silver, yellow Space Gray, blue, pink, purple, Starlight Price Wi-Fi: $449 Wi-Fi + Cellular: $599 Wi-Fi: $599 Wi-Fi + Cellular: $749 Buy from Apple Apple Review iPad (2022) review iPad Air (2022) review Best iPad Black Friday deals: iPad Mini, iPad Air, iPad Pro, and more Best tablet deals: Save on iPad, Galaxy Tab, Fire tablet, and more Best iPad deals: Save on 10.2-inch iPad, iPad Pro, and more iPad versus iPad Air design and display Joe Maring / Digital Trends At a glance, the iPad (2022) and iPad Air (2022) are virtually indistinguishable. It’s been four years since Apple introduced this new flat-edged design with the 2018 iPad Pro, but it’s finally been adopted across the entire iPad lineup.
Technically, the iPad (2022) is slightly larger and heavier than the iPad Air (2022), but only about 0.05 inches in each direction. It’s enough to prevent many cases from being used interchangeably but not enough to notice unless you’re laying the two tablets on top of each other.
Even so, there are some noticeable visual differences. The iPad (2022) moves the front camera to the long edge — a first for Apple’s tablets — and lacks the magnetic connector for the second-generation Apple Pencil.
 The Smart Connector also remains on the left edge, opposite the camera; that’s similar to where it was located on its predecessors, but it’s an unusual distinction from the iPad Air and iPad Pro, both of which have the Smart Connector on the back.
Andy Boxall / Digital Trends This is where the new design belies some of the differences between the iPad (2022) and the iPad Air (2022). The two tablets may look nearly identical, but they don’t support the same accessories. Since it uses the rear Smart Connector, Apple’s Magic Keyboard only works with the more expensive iPad Air and iPad Pro; iPad (2022) buyers will need to opt for Apple’s new Magic Keyboard Folio instead. Likewise, the lack of a magnetic charger for the second-generation Apple Pencil means you’ll only be able to use the first-generation Apple Pencil.
Thankfully, the displays on the iPad (2022) and iPad Air (2022) are much closer in specs. In fact, they’re identical in size (10.9 inches), resolution (2360 x 1640 at 264 pixels per inch), and brightness (500 nits). They also both support Apple’s True Tone display technology. However, the iPad Air gets an edge with its fully laminated display with an anti-reflective coating and also supports the P3 wide color gamut. This means the iPad Air display can offer richer and more realistic colors, and you’ll have an easier time seeing it in brighter lighting.
Apple Lastly, the iPad (2022) and iPad Air (2022) are available in entirely different assortments of colors. Apple has gone with brighter and more “fun” blue, pink, and yellow finishes for the iPad, with silver as the plain model. The iPad Air comes in much more muted pink and blue options, plus purple, Starlight, and Space Gray.
Winner: iPad Air (2022) iPad versus iPad Air performance Joe Maring/Digital Trends While Apple surprised us by adding its M1 chip to the iPad Air this year, the entry-level iPad offers no such bombshells. Instead, it predictably packs in the A14 Bionic, superseding the A13 Bionic found in its predecessor.
Of course, the A14 chip is no slouch; it was the same chip used in Apple’s entire 2020 iPhone 12 lineup , so it’s more than capable of handling nearly everything except the most demanding professional workflows. That easily includes day-to-day productivity tasks, web browsing, streaming video, gaming, photo editing, and even light-duty video editing.
Nevertheless, the M1 chip in Apple’s iPad Air puts the midrange tablet in an entirely different class. After all, this is the same chip used in Apple’s current 24-inch iMac and many MacBook Air and MacBook Pro laptops that are still in widespread use. While iPadOS 16 doesn’t offer the same breadth of options as macOS, there are still some M1-exclusive features like Stage Manager and external display support that iPad (2022) owners won’t be able to take advantage of.
Winner: iPad Air (2022) iPad versus iPad Air battery life and charging According to Apple’s published specs, the iPad (2022) and iPad Air (2022) should provide nearly identical battery life. Apple says that’s up to 10 hours of surfing the web on Wi-Fi or watching videos. That drops to nine hours of surfing over a 5G connection. That’s on par with last year’s iPad (2021).
However, the iPad (2022) gets an edge by adopting USB-C.
 Yes, Apple has finally ditched the Lightning connector on its tablets. While you won’t necessarily get faster charging, this should make it easier to charge your iPad without having to tote around a USB-C to Lightning cable just for that purpose.
Winner: Tie iPad versus iPad Air cameras Joe Maring/Digital Trends Although taking pictures with an iPad isn’t a priority for many folks, the iPad (2022) and iPad Air (2022) both offer the same 12-megapixel (MP) rear camera with an f/1.8 aperture, 5x digital zoom, and Smart HDR 3 support. While that doesn’t hold a candle to any of Apple’s recent iPhones, it gets the job done in a pinch, and it’s also more than adequate for tasks like scanning documents. It can also record 4K video at up to 60 frames per second (fps), with extended dynamic range and even support for recording slo-mo videos.
The front camera on the iPad (2022) also features identical specs to the one found on the iPad Air (2022), with a 12MP resolution, an f/2.4 aperture, and support for Center Stage and cinematic video stabilization. However, the iPad (2022) has a unique trick up its sleeve that we hope to see Apple embrace across the entire iPad lineup: a landscape front camera.
Joe Maring/Digital Trends For the first time on an iPad, Apple has moved the front camera to the long edge, suitable for use when holding the iPad sideways in landscape orientation. This offers a more laptop-like user experience, and it’s a nice touch for folks who use their iPad with a keyboard on FaceTime and Zoom calls. It’s more natural to look into a camera above your screen rather than off to one side, and the angles make it appear to the other person that you’re actually looking at them rather than gazing off in a seemingly random direction.
Of course, the new camera position won’t appeal to those who prefer to use the iPad for video calls in portrait orientation. However, since most iPad stands and nearly all iPad keyboards are designed for landscape use, we think the new camera position makes a lot of sense, and it’s enough to give the new iPad (2022) an edge in this category.
Winner: iPad (2022) iPad versus iPad Air software and updates Apple The iPad (2022) and iPad Air (2022) both run iPadOS 16 , meaning they’ll offer a nearly-identical user experience. Thanks to its more powerful M1 chip, the iPad Air gets two unique iPadOS 16 features — Stage Manager and external display support — but both iPads should otherwise function identically from a software perspective.
Apple also releases its iPadOS updates for all models simultaneously, so both the iPad (2022) and iPad Air (2022) should remain in lockstep for at least the next few years. With the older A14 chip, it’s possible the iPad (2022) could be left behind before the M1-equipped iPad Air is by a future iPadOS release, but that’s still years away. To put this in perspective, iPadOS 16 still runs on the fifth-generation iPad released in March 2017, so it’s a safe bet that the iPad (2022) will someday be able to run iPadOS 21.
Winner: Tie iPad versus iPad Air special features Adam Doud/Digital Trends / Digital Trends Perhaps the biggest thing that separates the iPad (2022) and iPad Air (2022) is their support for Apple’s first-party accessories. When Apple brought the design of the iPad Pro to the iPad Air in 2020, the mid-tier tablet gained support for the same accessories as the flagship model. This included Apple’s Magic Keyboard and its second-generation Apple Pencil.
That continued in 2021 with the sixth-generation iPad Mini , at least in principle. While the smaller tablet obviously wasn’t going to work with Apple’s full-sized Magic Keyboard, it did offer the same Apple Pencil compatibility, right down to the magnetic charging dock on the side.
Sadly, that’s not the case with the iPad (2022). The new design is arguably a bit misleading, considering what happened with the iPad Air, but the bottom line is that you won’t be able to use any of the same accessories. The iPad (2022) only works with the first-generation Apple Pencil , which has to be charged rather awkwardly using a USB-C to Apple Pencil adapter — either directly from the iPad or an external USB-C charger. The lack of a magnetic charging dock also means there’s nowhere convenient to stash the Apple Pencil when you’re not using it.
Joe Maring / Digital Trends Similarly, Apple inexplicably chose to keep the Smart Connector on the edge of the iPad (2022) rather than moving it to the back as it did with the iPad Pro and iPad Air. The 0.04 inches of extra thickness may have prevented the new iPad from fitting properly in the Magic Keyboard. Still, the side placement is yet another odd inconsistency for a design that otherwise looks so similar to the rest of the iPad lineup.
These issues don’t matter much if you’re not planning on using these accessories, but it’s tough to recommend the iPad (2022) to anybody considering the Apple Pencil; the first-generation stylus offers a significantly poorer user experience compared to the more magical second-generation model.
Winner: iPad Air (2022) iPad versus iPad Air price and availability The iPad (2022) is available in silver, blue, pink, or yellow in either 64GB or 256GB capacities starting at $449 for the Wi-Fi model or $599 for the Wi-Fi + Cellular (5G) version.
The iPad Air (2022) is available in Space Gray, Starlight, pink, purple, or blue in 64GB and 256GB capacities starting at $599 for the Wi-Fi version of $749 for the WiFi + Cellular model.
Overall winner: iPad Air (2022) iPadOS split-screen mode Andy Boxall/Digital Trends While the iPad (2022) is still the most affordable model in this year’s iPad lineup, it’s telling that Apple has kept last year’s iPad (2021) on the market to satisfy folks still looking for an even more wallet-friendly option. For years, Apple’s entry-level iPad has featured a starting price of $329, so this year’s jump to $449 for the new iPad (2022) is pretty significant.
The real challenge is that it closes the gap between the two product tiers in a way that makes the jump to the iPad Air much more appealing. At about half the price of the iPad Air, Apple’s basic iPad was an easy sell for folks looking for a tablet for casual personal or family use. Now, the iPad (2022) sits nearly in the middle of that gulf — and it doesn’t bridge it in the way you might think.
With the iPad (2021) still on the market and the iPad Air (2022) offering a tantalizing upgrade with its much better Apple Pencil support, laminated screen, and more powerful M1 chip, the iPad (2022) is a hard sell. Folks looking to spend as little as possible are better off staying with the 2021 model, while others should consider spending the extra money to jump to the much better iPad Air.
Editors' Recommendations The iPad is going to get an amazing new feature in 2024 Apple needs to fix the iPad Browse, work or read anywhere: Save $99 on the latest iPad Mini 10.2-inch iPad just crashed back to its lowest price of the year The USB-C Apple Pencil fixes an iPad problem I’ve had for years Apple Apple iPad Versus Mobile Apple has been relatively silent since announcing the iPhone 15 series and new Apple Watches in September. However, there are rumors that new iPads could be announced soon. Although Apple didn't announce any new iPads on October 17 as originally suspected, it's evident that new iPads are likely coming at some point in the near future.
As the announcement will almost certainly be made through an online press release, not a full-blown press event, you might think these updates won't be significant. Still, this news could not have come at a better time for those planning to buy an iPad, as the holiday buying season is starting to ramp up.
Mobile The Wi-Fi, 64GB model of the ninth-generation Apple iPad is currently available from Amazon for just $249, which is the tablet's lowest-ever price at Amazon and the same price it was during October Prime Day. We're not sure why the $80 in savings on the device's sticker price of $329 is still online, but if you've been looking for iPad deals, this is an offer that you won't want to miss. Its price may return to normal in the blink of an eye, so don't waste any more time -- push through with the transaction to secure the discount.
Why you should buy the Apple iPad 9th Gen The ninth-generation Apple iPad isn't the latest version of Apple's entry-level tablet -- that's the 10th-generation Apple iPad -- but the device remains on our list of the best iPads as the top choice for those who are on a budget. That's because the ninth-generation Apple iPad still offers great performance by today's standards despite the affordable price tag, as it's powered by the A13 Bionic chip that was launched with the iPhone 11 series. The tablet may also be upgraded to iPadOS 17, which is the most recent update for Apple's operating system for its tablets, so you won't be missing out on the newest features.
Mobile Apple's iPad is undoubtedly one of the most popular tablets on the market right now. There are several different models to choose from, but no matter which one you go with, you'll be getting one of the best tablets out there. Still, Apple provides an abundance of choice here, and with so many different versions — and nearly annual updates — it can be tricky to know which one is the best to get.
All of Apple's iPads are pretty great, and they're each designed with a slightly different audience in mind, so it's hard to pick a single one as "the best." That's why we've broken the list down by categories; after all, there's an ideal iPad for nearly every situation. Whether you're looking for the best overall iPad, the best iPad on a budget, something in the middle of the pack, or even the best small iPad, we've got you covered.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
