Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Phones Best Tablets Tesla Phone Download Android 14 Best Android Phones Home Mobile Guides Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Which Apple Pencil should you buy in 2023? It’s complicated By Bryan M. Wolfe Close Apple Apple caused a stir this week by launching a third version of its Apple Pencil.
 Although it’s not unusual for tech companies to release updated versions of their products, it’s somewhat confusing as the new Apple Pencil joins the two existing models in the lineup. This means three Apple Pencils are available now, all of which look very similar. Despite the three input devices performing similar tasks, they differ in key areas, as their price differences suggest.
Apple Pencil (1st generation) Apple Pencil (2nd generation) Apple Pencil (USB-C) Which Apple Pencil is for you? Here’s a comparison of the Apple Pencil, Apple Pencil (2nd generation) , and the all-new Apple Pencil (USB-C). If you aren’t sure which one to buy, you’ve come to the right place.
Apple Pencil (1st generation) Malarie Gokey / Digital Trends It’s hard to believe, but almost eight years have passed since Apple released the first-ever Apple Pencil. The device quickly revolutionized the digital stylus industry. It looks like a regular pencil but is white and smooth on all sides. Like future Apple Pencils, it was designed to offer low latency when writing, sketching, and drawing. This means there is minimal delay between the movement of the Apple Pencil on the iPad screen and the mark’s appearance. Additionally, it is pressure-sensitive, making the response to light and heavy touches feel more natural. And with tilt technology built-in, you can add various shading and other cool effects to your work.
Apple’s new Lightning to USB-C adapter costs more than just buying a USB-C cable Surprise Apple sale brings big discounts on iPad and Apple Watch Apple confirms USB-C is coming to iPhones, but it’s still bitter about it Charging the first-generation Apple Pencil is an interesting process involving removing the bottom cap to expose its Lightning connector. Once the connector is exposed, you can plug it into the Lightning port on supported iPads or use an adapter to charge the Pencil using a USB power adapter. Either way, it may look a little strange charging this Apple Pencil.
Joe Maring / DIgital Trends When the first Apple Pencil was released, all iPads had Lightning connectors, not USB-C like the later models. However, in a surprising move, Apple added support for the USB-C-based iPad (10th generation) in 2022, making it the only iPad compatible with the first-generation Apple Pencil that uses USB-C. As such, you need to use the included USB-C to Apple Pencil Adapter to charge the Apple Pencil with this particular iPad model.
If you’re in the market for an Apple Pencil and have a supported Lightning-based iPad, this is the only one that will work with your tablet.
The supported iPads for the Apple Pencil (1st generation) include the iPad Pro 12.9-inch (1st and 2nd generation), iPad Pro 10.5-inch, iPad Pro 9.7-inch, iPad Air (3rd generation), iPad mini (5th generation), and iPad (6th, 7th, 8th, 9th, and 10th generation).
Apple Pencil (2nd generation) Joe Maring / Digital Trends In 2018, Apple released the first iPad models with a USB-C port instead of the Lightning port. These were the first-generation 11-inch iPad Pro and the third-generation 12.9-inch iPad Pro. As a result, Apple had to make changes to the Apple Pencil. Instead of creating a USB-C to Apple Pencil Adapter (introduced later), Apple launched the Apple Pencil (2nd generation).
The second-generation Apple Pencil offers the same features as the first, such as low latency, tilt, and pressure sensitivity. However, it has some additional features that make it stand out. One of the most notable is its wireless charging and pairing capability, which is exclusive to this model. It can be conveniently charged by attaching it to the side of a compatible iPad.
Apple Pencil hover showing color blending Joe Maring / Digital Trends The second generation of the Apple Pencil comes with a relatively new feature called “Apple Pencil hover.” This feature only works with the 11-inch (4th generation) and 12.9-inch (6th generation) iPad Pro models. With this feature, you can preview different Apple Pencil tools and controls before you actually use them on the tablet. It allows you to preview various colors, brushes, and line thicknesses, among other options. Hold the Apple Pencil above the iPad display up to 12mm to use the hover tool.
The second Apple Pencil has one final feature: the double-tap gesture. You can quickly switch between tools by simply double-tapping on the side of the Pencil.
Not surprisingly, you can only use the Apple Pencil (2nd generation) with supported USB-C iPad models. These include the 11-inch (1st, 2nd, 3rd, and 4th generation) and 12.9-inch (3rd, 4th, 5th, and 6th generation iPad Pro models, iPad Air (4th and 5th generation ), and iPad mini (6th generation).
 It does not work with the iPad (10th generation) Apple Pencil (USB-C) Apple This brings us to the latest Apple Pencil (USB-C) model. Apple calls this the “most affordable Apple Pencil” to date. While this is correct, what Apple doesn’t tell you is the lower price means fewer features.
There are some positive aspects to the Apple Pencil (USB-C). For instance, it supports low latency and tilt sensitivity like the other Apple Pencils. It also connects magnetically to supported iPads and supports Apple Pencil hover on supported iPad Pro models.
Apple It’s odd that pressure sensitivity, a feature introduced eight years ago on the first Apple Pencil, is not supported on the newest model. Additionally, the latest Apple Pencil does not have the double-tap feature that allows you to switch between tools. Another downside is that the Apple Pencil (USB-C) doesn’t support wireless charging and pairing. To charge it up, you’ll need a USB-C cable, which isn’t included in the box. The USB-C connector is under the cap at the bottom of the Pencil.
The less expensive Apple Pencil (USB-C) works with some iPads that also work with the Apple Pencil (2nd generation). These include the 11-inch (3rd, 4th, 5th, and 6th generation) and 12.9-inch (3rd, 4th, 5th, and 6th generation) iPad Pro models, iPad Air (4th and 5th generation), and iPad mini (6th generation). It also supports the iPad (10th generation), which also works with the Apple Pencil (1st generation).
Is that confusing enough for you yet? Which Apple Pencil is for you? Joe Maring / Digital Trends For owners of iPads with Lightning connectors, the only compatible Apple Pencil is the first-generation model. This makes the decision easy for those individuals.
If your iPad is equipped with USB-C, choosing the right Apple Pencil can be a bit more confusing. The Apple Pencil (USB-C) costs $79, which is $50 less than the Apple Pencil (2nd generation), which is priced at $129. While the price difference is not insignificant, you will need to decide whether the missing features are necessary for your situation.
The two biggest features you’d be giving up by buying the Apple Pencil (USB-C) are wireless charging and pairing. Maybe this isn’t much of a big deal since charging an Apple Pencil takes just a few minutes, regardless of the version. And yet, wireless charging and pairing do save some time in the process.
When buying an Apple Pencil (USB-C) instead of the Apple Pencil (2nd generation), it’s also worth considering that you’ll lose the pressure sensitivity and double-tap features. The loss of pressure sensitivity may be significant, depending on how you intend to use the Apple Pencil. However, it’s difficult to determine whether this is a major issue or a minor inconvenience until reviews of the Apple Pencil (USB-C) become available. Losing double-tap is probably the least consequential.
Digital Trends If money is less of a concern, it’s probably wiser to get the Apple Pencil (2nd generation). If money is tight, go with the Apple Pencil (USB-C) and see how you like it. You can always return it if it doesn’t live up to your expectations.
Before you make a decision to buy an Apple Pencil, keep in mind that discounts are often available for the second-generation model at third-party retailers. Therefore, it would be wise to compare its price with the newer Apple Pencil (USB-C) and take into account any possible discounts. While it’s unlikely that the second-generation model will be available at the same price as the USB-C model, you may find a $10-$20 discount which could make a significant difference when deciding between the two.
The bottom line: the closer in price those two products are, the more likely the Apple Pencil (2nd generation) is the one for you.
Editors' Recommendations The best iPads in 2023: the 5 best ones you should buy This touchscreen AirPods case is the worst thing I’ve seen all week What Apple’s iCloud encryption update really means — and why you should care Does the Apple iPad (2022) have USB-C? What you need to know Does the Apple iPad (2022) work with Apple Pencil? Apple Mobile The Apple iPad Pro (2022), featuring a gorgeous 11-inch or 12.9-inch screen, makes for an excellent device for drawing, coloring, sketching, writing, highlighting, or just browsing the web. Whether you're a professional artist or a hobbyist looking for a fancy tool, the new iPad Pro paired with the Apple Pencil gives you plenty of features to play around with.
In fact, Apple has revealed that you can use the Apple Pencil from up to 12 mm above the display, giving you more control over your strokes. It's a neat feature that makes the Apple Pencil more useful than before, but there's one important thing we need to get straight.
Does the iPad Pro (2022) come with the Apple Pencil? Unfortunately, none of the recent iPads come with the Apple Pencil, so if you want to use a stylus, you'll have to buy it separately. We recommend buying the second-gen Apple Pencil as it offers the new 12 mm hover feature, and it's also compatible with third-party apps.
It's specially designed to work with the iPad, too. It pairs well even with other iPad Pro models released after 2018, so you can share it with your family and friends if needed. You can buy it as an add-on with the iPad Pro (2022) for $129 and get free engraving options to add a mix of emojis, names, initials, and numbers to suit your unique style.
Mobile The European Parliament today approved a regulation that would mandate a common charger for all electronics sold in the bloc in a bid to reduce e-waste. These include smartphones and tablets. While most smartphones and tablets currently sold in the EU do use USB-C, one particular holdout has been Apple. With this new rule, the next iPhone (or the one after that) will have to ditch Lightning for USB-C, bringing it in line with the iPad Pro and Macbook lines.
While the law only applies in Europe, Apple would have to either design an iPhone specifically for Europe or adopt USB-C worldwide. It's easy to see which path the company's picking, especially with American and Indian politicians making similar legislative noises.
Mobile Steve Jobs was famously not a fan of styluses, but regardless, you have to admit the Apple Pencil is tremendously useful when sketching, writing, or doing any sort of detail work on a touchscreen. That was even more true from iPadOS 14 on, thanks to the amazing Scribble feature, which allows you to handwrite in any text box and have it translated to plain text.
If you're a keen artist or note taker, then the Apple Pencil is a must-buy for your iPad. But wait a moment before you tap Buy -- do you know whether your iPad is compatible with the Apple Pencil and which generation of Apple Pencil you need? That's right, the Apple Pencil isn't a one-size-fits-all tool; you'll need to buy the correct Pencil to suit your iPad. And since prices for the Pencil start at around $100, you'll want to be absolutely sure you're buying the right one the first time. But don't worry -- we've got a simple guide so you can be sure you're buying the right Apple Pencil.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
