Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Share Wi-Fi Password on iPhone How to Restart iPhone Screen Record on iPhone Back Up an iPhone Clear Cache on iPhone Share Location on iPhone Home Mobile Deals Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? This sealed-in-box iPhone can be yours for under $150 today By Aaron Mamiit Close Andy Boxall/Digital Trends / Digital Trends Apple iPhones are great devices, especially if you like the more controlled environment of the Apple ecosystem, where things are a bit more streamlined. Of course, that also means you’re likely to spend a hefty sum on one of the latest iPhones, like the iPhone 15 , which can often be more money than some folks are willing to pay. Luckily, Apple somewhat addresses that issue with the iPhone SE lineup of phones, which are more budget-oriented devices that are surprisingly affordable.
When the original iPhone SE came out, it was quite a surprise for many, especially since Apple is known for its costly devices, and while it wasn’t the best iPhone out there, it was still great. On the bright side, the newest iteration of the iPhone SE, the 2022 version, is also quite powerful, even though it’s missing some of the higher-end features of the latest iPhones, like crash detection. What’s even better is that you can pick it up from Walmart at a discounted price of $149, rather than the usual $379 it goes for, which is a substantial discount and probably one of the best iPhone deals we’ve seen in a while.
Why you should buy the Apple iPhone SE 2022 The Apple iPhone SE 2022 remains in our roundup of the best iPhones as the top choice for those with tight budgets. It comes with limitations, including a dated design, poor battery life, and just 64GB of storage, but for its cost, it’s an excellent entry point into the iOS ecosystem. The smartphone is powered by Apple’s A15 Bionic chip, which is the same processor inside the iPhone 14 , and it features a 4.7-inch Liquid Retina display that’s compact enough to easily use the device with just one hand.
The single-lens 12MP camera at the back and the 7MP selfie camera at the front pale in comparison to what you can find on the latest iPhones, but they still perform well for the third-generation Apple iPhone SE. There’s no Face ID , but the device is protected by Apple’s Touch ID fingerprint recognition system. It ships with iOS 15 , but you can update it to iOS 17 to access some of the mobile operating system’s latest features.
The Apple iPhone 15 probably won’t appear in phone deals any time soon, but even then, its price may still be beyond your budget. Instead, you should set your sights on the third-generation Apple iPhone SE, which is on sale from Walmart for a very affordable $149, following a $230 discount on its sticker price of $379. It’s going to be locked to a Simple Mobile prepaid plan, but if that’s not a problem for you, then you should hurry in taking advantage of this offer for the Apple iPhone SE 2022. If you delay your purchase to tomorrow, it may already be too late.
Editors' Recommendations The best iPhone 15 Pro Max screen protectors in 2023 Best refurbished Apple Black Friday deals on AirPods, iPads, iPhones, and more Over 3,000 iPhone 15 cases discounted for early Black Friday — from $3 The best iPhone 15 Pro Max cases in 2023: the 20 best ones The best health and fitness apps for iPhone in 2023: 18 best ones Deals Apple Apple iPhone Mobile If you can no longer wait for Black Friday to buy a new smartphone, the good news is that you can already take advantage of some early Black Friday phone deals. We're not sure until when they'll remain available, and if their prices will change once the shopping holiday arrives, but if you're interested in any of the offers that we've highlighted below, it's highly recommended that you proceed with the purchase immediately.
Apple iPhone 15 -- $60 per month Mobile Waiting on an iPhone upgrade? Now is the time to pounce, as the newest additions to Apple's legendary roster were confirmed at its September 2023 event. The belles of the ball this year have to be the upgraded iPhone 15 and iPhone 15 Plus models, which have finally received the design update the iPhone 14 Pro and iPhone 14 Pro Max received last year. Now equipped with the Dynamic Island across the hole-punch selfie camera, the gulf between the iPhone and iPhone Pro has lessened again.
If you're eagerly awaiting your upgrade, or if this is your first iPhone, you'll be wanting to keep it safe. Smartphones tend to be with us throughout our day, and that means they can fall prey to any one of a number of hazards. Bumps, drops, even scratches from sharing your pocket with keys or coins; the list is near endless. The last thing you want is for your new phone to end up scratched, chipped, or even completely broken. Thankfully, a good protective case can stop that from happening. Here are some of the best Apple iPhone 15 cases you can buy right now.
Mobile The Wi-Fi, 64GB model of the ninth-generation Apple iPad featuring a 10.2-inch Retina display is down to its lowest price this year of $249, after an $80 discount by Amazon on its original price of $329. If you missed the previous chance to get the tablet for this cheap, here's another opportunity -- but you need to act fast if you don't want to let it slip through your fingers again. This is one of the most interesting iPad deals online right now, so you should hurry with your purchase if you want to beat all the other interested shoppers.
Why you should buy the Apple iPad 10.2 (9th Gen) The ninth-generation Apple iPad was released in 2021, but it's still on our list of the best iPads as the top budget option because its performance, powered by Apple's A13 Bionic chip that's also in the iPhone 11 series, is still more than enough for the average user. The 10.2-inch Retina display is still gorgeous with sharp details and bright colors, which makes it the perfect screen for watching streaming shows, playing mobile games, and browsing social media.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
