Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Share Wi-Fi Password on iPhone How to Restart iPhone Screen Record on iPhone Back Up an iPhone Clear Cache on iPhone Share Location on iPhone Home Mobile Features Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? I turned my iPhone into one of 2023’s coolest Android phones By Christine Romero-Chan Close Christine Romero-Chan / Digital Trends It feels like the smartphone market has plateaued in terms of design. With the exception of folding phones and flip phones, pretty much all handsets today are glass and metal slabs. And to top it off, most smartphones come in the most drab and boring colors possible.
A case for the techies It’s not just about looks The phone case no one expected That’s why the Nothing Phone 2 is one of the most interesting smartphones out there in terms of design and aesthetics. It features a transparent glass back that lets you see its internal components, and there are even LED lights that serve multiple purposes. The Nothing Phone is completely unique and stands out from a sea of otherwise boring phone designs, and it feels really special because of that.
Casetify, a mobile accessory brand that’s well known for having tons of designs and customized phone cases, has partnered with Nothing for a collaboration that no one saw coming. With the Casetify x Nothing collab , you can now turn your iPhone , Samsung Galaxy, or Google Pixel device into a Nothing Phone … kind of.
A case for the techies Christine Romero-Chan / Digital Trends There are actually four different case designs in the Casetify x Nothing collection: Case (1), Case (2), Case (3), and Case (4). The first two are based on the actual Nothing Phone 2 design, in both black and white, while the other two cases are more about the Nothing logo aesthetic, also in black and white.
I’m a big fan of the Nothing Phone 2 design , so I wanted to check out the Case (1) for my iPhone 15 Pro.
 It comes in four different case styles for the iPhone (from the iPhone X to the iPhone 15 Pro Max ): the best-selling Impact Case (with or without MagSafe), the Mirror Case with MagSafe, the new Impact Ring Stand Case with MagSafe, and the Bounce Case with MagSafe. For Samsung, it’s available for the S22 and S23 series, while Google options are for the Pixel 6/6 Pro and Pixel 7/7 Pro. Samsung and Google options are only available in the Impact Case style.
The Nothing Phone 2 design is printed on the back of the case, which is mostly composed of a material that’s made with recycled phone cases. For the most part, the printed design is fairly accurate to what the actual back of the Nothing Phone 2 looks like.
Christine Romero-Chan / Digital Trends Casetify did add some texture to the case by slightly elevating the ridges along the wireless charging coil part of the design, as well as the curvature in the bottom left corner, where the Nothing logo is (like on the actual phone). There are also curved white stripes to simulate how the Nothing Phone 2 looks like when the Glyph interface is lit up. Lastly, Casetify really did a great job nailing the details, as you even have the regulatory compliance symbols in the bottom right corner (with some alterations since this isn’t an actual phone).
Overall, the design of the Case (1) from Casetify is pretty spot-on, with a few adjustments made to make the design work with an iPhone 15 Pro. For example, I wish that the ring around the camera bump would have just been plain white like the other light strips (since the Nothing Phone 2 has lights around the camera module) rather than have the Casetify logo emblazoned in white on black. And, of course, the gigantic camera module cuts into the upper half of the white light strip, making it a bit imperfect.
Still, if you’ve ever wished you could turn your iPhone, Samsung Galaxy, or Google Pixel phone into a Nothing Phone, this case helps achieve that aesthetic.
It’s not just about looks Christine Romero-Chan / Digital Trends The Nothing collaboration is just one of many different designs that Casetify has in its portfolio. I’ve been using Casetify cases for several years now, and the Impact case is one of my personal favorites. Though Casetify cases aren’t cheap (they start at around $52 and up), they are incredibly tough and durable while retaining a pretty slim profile.
The Impact Case, which is my preferred style, has military-grade drop protection up to 8.2 feet. As someone who tends to drop the phone a lot, I’m always confident that the Casetify case will absorb any shock from impact, and the actual iPhone is safe and sound while the case itself gets banged up a bit.
Christine Romero-Chan / Digital Trends The profile of the Impact case is not too bulky, and it’s pretty easy to get it in and out of legging pockets. The edges are somewhat glossy, but it adds additional grip, which is always welcome.
I also love that Casetify has incredibly tactile buttons. However, I wish it used an actual cover for the Action button on the iPhone 15 Pro. Instead, it currently features a cutout, though the button is still quite accessible since it’s not too recessed, unlike other cases I’ve tried recently.
The phone case no one expected Christine Romero-Chan / Digital Trends This is definitely one of the more silly but fun collaborations that I’ve seen Casetify do. I definitely did not expect it, and I don’t think anyone else did either. When the news of this collaboration hit my inbox, I knew I had to check it out.
Nothing has always had a cool phone design, while the iPhone has mostly grown stale, s o I was excited to dress up my iPhone 15 Pro as a Nothing Phone 2. And Casetify absolutely didn’t disappoint.
Editors' Recommendations It looks like the iPhone 16 will get a big design upgrade The iPhone is getting out of control This iPhone 15 and iPhone 14 camera test is closer than I expected 4 AI features I want in my next iPhone I figured out how to protect my iPhone without an ugly case Apple Apple Events and Announcements Apple iPhone Features Mobile It could take a while before Android phones allow satellite connectivity to assist users in emergency scenarios, thanks in no part to Qualcomm canceling its ambitious Snapdragon Satellite plans. Apple introduced satellite SOS support last year with the iPhone 14 series, with the intention of helping people when they are out of cellular or broadband coverage range.
The feature allows you to text emergency responders, share locations, and request roadside assistance. But not long after, hope emerged for Android phones. Earlier this year, Qualcomm announced Snapdragon Satellite, with the goal of aping Apple’s initiative for Android phones.
Mobile iPhone 14 Plus (left) and iPhone 15 Plus Andy Boxall / Digital Trends If you’re reading this article, chances are high that you keep pretty up-to-date with modern technology, including smartphones like Apple’s iPhone. You may upgrade your phone every few years, or — if you’re like me — you might even upgrade every year.
Mobile The iPhone 15 Pro and iPhone 15 Pro Max have an all-new titanium body, which is the standout feature from a design perspective. However, another hardware-related feature that's even more noteworthy for these models — and future iPhones over time — is the new Action button.
The Action button replaces the ring/silent switch on the left side of the iPhone 15 Pro and iPhone 15 Pro Max. You can assign one shortcut to the button through the Settings app, such as activating and using the Camera app or turning on the phone's flashlight. To assign the button, go into the Settings app on your supported iPhone. From there, choose the Action Button, then toggle to your selection. It's that simple.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
