Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Share Wi-Fi Password on iPhone How to Restart iPhone Screen Record on iPhone Back Up an iPhone Clear Cache on iPhone Share Location on iPhone Home Mobile Features 10 awesome things you can do with the iPhone 15 Pro Action button By Bryan M. Wolfe Close Joe Maring / Digital Trends The iPhone 15 Pro and iPhone 15 Pro Max have an all-new titanium body, which is the standout feature from a design perspective. However, another hardware-related feature that’s even more noteworthy for these models — and future iPhones over time — is the new Action button.
Action button basics The Action Button Menu Give your camera superpowers Launch the Shazam app Turn on background sounds Give your Action button two shortcuts Activate VoiceOver Open any app you want Orientation-based actions Get creative with Apple Music The Action button replaces the ring/silent switch on the left side of the iPhone 15 Pro and iPhone 15 Pro Max. You can assign one shortcut to the button through the Settings app, such as activating and using the Camera app or turning on the phone’s flashlight. To assign the button, go into the Settings app on your supported iPhone. From there, choose the Action Button, then toggle to your selection. It’s that simple.
You may think that the Action button on your device is only useful for basic functions. However, it’s also compatible with Apple Shortcuts and accessibility features, allowing for a variety of possibilities that you may not have considered.
How I use my Apple Watch and iPhone to manage my diabetes This iPhone 15 and iPhone 14 camera test is closer than I expected 4 AI features I want in my next iPhone Action button basics Christine Romero-Chan / Digital Trends The iPhone 15 Pro’s Action button can be customized to perform six basic functions. Besides opening the Camera app and turning on the flashlight, the button can also be used to switch to silent mode, activate a Focus setting, access the Voice Memo app, or use the Magnifier. Additionally, if you have the official Translator app installed on your iPhone, you can also assign the Action button to that app. It’s also possible to deactivate the Action button, so it does absolutely nothing. That’s no fun, of course.
The Camera tool is perhaps the most valuable, but that’s entirely subjective. When you assign the Action button to the Camera app, you also choose the camera function that activates. You can have it automatically open the photo camera, selfie, video, portrait, or portrait selfie.
Let’s discuss some of the more advanced features that can be performed using either the Shortcuts app or the accessibility tools on your phone. If you choose to use the Shortcuts app, you will be prompted to select a shortcut. You can link it to an existing shortcut, create a new one, or choose from the pre-existing shortcuts available in the Shortcuts Gallery. It’s worth noting that shortcuts have web addresses, which you can access from your iPhone and follow the installation instructions. Meanwhile, when you choose Accessibility within the Action button settings, you must select a specific action from the list.
The Action Button Menu Digital Trends It’s frustrating that you can only assign one task to the Action button. Thankfully, a shortcut was shared on X (formerly known as Twitter) by ReallAppleDefender , which removes this limitation.
The Action Button Menu shortcut lets you bring up a menu when you press the button. This menu offers six tasks: Camera, Flashlight, Mute Toggle, Set Focus, Rotation Lock, and the ability to open the Home app. That means pressing the Action button once now gives you six possible shortcuts, and as you’d expect, it’s a big upgrade over the default options Apple gives you.
Give your camera superpowers Digital Trends Who wouldn’t love a quicker way to switch between photo and video modes on their phone’s camera app? Jordan Zeleny has created a shortcut called Double Tap Action , and it’s perfect for this.
With this shortcut, a single tap of the Action button opens the photo camera, while a double tap automatically switches to the video camera. It’s a simple yet powerful feature that can save time and make your photography experience more efficient.
Launch the Shazam app Digital Trends If you’re not familiar with the Shazam app, it’s a great tool that can help you identify songs. Open Shazam, press the button, and you can identify whatever song is playing.
With the Shazam & Save shortcut, you can activate the music identification function through the Action button and add the recognized song directly to your Apple Music library. Hear a song playing and want to know the name or artist of it? Just enable this Shortcut, press the Action button, and that’s all there is to it.
Turn on background sounds Digital Trends Do you ever find it difficult to concentrate? Did you know your iPhone offers soothing background sounds that you can play through your compatible headphones ? These background sounds can come to life automatically using the Action button.
To get started, choose Accessibility under the Action button settings. From there, tap Choose to see a list of available options. Next, scroll down to the Hearing section and tap Background Sounds.
Now, when you click the Action button, you’ll hear background sounds designed to mask unwanted environmental noise. Click the Action button again to turn off the sound.
Give your Action button two shortcuts MacStories Federico Vittici, a well-known author at MacStories, has created a variety of Apple shortcuts over the years. One of these, Multibutton , is a handy option when paired with the Action button. With Multibutton, you can assign two separate shortcuts to your Action button, one of which is activated by pressing the button once and the other by pressing it twice.
To begin, you will need to download the app and then tap on the Set Up Shortcut option. However, things can get a bit tricky from here on. You must enter the exact names of the two shortcuts you want to run. Once it’s all configured, however, it can be really powerful.
Activate VoiceOver Digital Trends Another accessibility feature with the Action button is the ability to activate VoiceOver. With VoiceOver, you’ll hear a voice speak the items on the screen.
To assign this, choose Accessibility under the Action button settings. From there, tap Choose to see a list of available options. Next, scroll down to the Vision section and tap VoiceOver.
 While this is technically an accessibility feature, anyone can use and benefit from it.
Open any app you want Digital Trends It might seem repetitive to assign the Action button to open an app. After all, you can do the same thing by searching for it or by clicking on its icon from your home screen. However, it’s a nice option nonetheless. For example, you can use the Open App shortcut to open an alternative camera app such as Camera+, check the weather, etc.
To start with this tool, select Shortcut from the Action button menu, then tap the selection below, which will open the Shortcuts menu. From there, choose Open App under the Get Started section and follow the additional directions.
Orientation-based actions Digital Trends YouTuber Dan Vittorini has created an interesting shortcut called the Orientation Action Mode.
 Once installed, the shortcut allows you to assign different actions based on the orientation of your phone.
For instance, if you’re watching a movie in landscape mode, you can use the Action button to activate the silent mode. On the other hand, if you’re in portrait mode, you can change the Action button to start the Camera app or any other app of your choice. You can get pretty creative with this one, and it’s absolutely worth checking out.
Get creative with Apple Music Digital Trends There are several Apple Music shortcuts available that can help you find your favorite songs, albums, radio stations, and more. You can access this content even quicker by combining these shortcuts with the Action button.
For instance, I am fond of Apple Music 1, and I’ve set up Apple shortcuts to start the radio station every time I click on the Action button. It’s simple.
As you can see, there are many possibilities with the iPhone 15 Pro’s Action button. You can use it with any of its basic options or opt for a shortcut or accessibility tool. The choice is yours.
Editors' Recommendations It looks like the iPhone 16 will get a big design upgrade The iPhone is getting out of control I love Apple, but it’s totally wrong about iMessage and RCS I figured out how to protect my iPhone without an ugly case The iPhone’s futuristic satellite tech isn’t coming to Android any time soon Apple Apple Events and Announcements Apple iPhone Features Mobile iPhone 14 Plus (left) and iPhone 15 Plus Andy Boxall / Digital Trends If you’re reading this article, chances are high that you keep pretty up-to-date with modern technology, including smartphones like Apple’s iPhone. You may upgrade your phone every few years, or — if you’re like me — you might even upgrade every year.
Mobile As an avid Apple fan, I was surprised when I received the Samsung Galaxy Tab S9 FE for review and found myself loving it. Could Samsung continue to impress me? That's what I wanted to find out when I received the Galaxy S23 FE. This "fan edition" smartphone, which we just ran through its paces in our Samsung Galaxy S23 FE review, offers many of the same features as the other Galaxy S23 models, but at a slightly lower price.
My handset of choice has always been the latest iPhone Pro. This usually means purchasing the Pro Max model, which I did again this year with the iPhone 15 Pro Max. I didn't expect the Galaxy S23 FE to match up to my new iPhone, as the Apple device is double the price and offers much better specs.
Mobile Apple’s latest iPhone update has addressed an irksome bug that caused Apple Pay and other NFC features on iPhone 15 handsets to stop working after charging the device using BMW’s in-car wireless chargers.
Yes, it’s a somewhat peculiar problem, and troublesome, too, especially considering that it could also affect the proper operation of the BMW’s digital car key. But the good news is that Apple’s release of iOS 17.1.1 on Tuesday finally resolves it.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
