Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Share Wi-Fi Password on iPhone How to Restart iPhone Screen Record on iPhone Back Up an iPhone Clear Cache on iPhone Share Location on iPhone Home Mobile Features The iPhone 16 already sounds incredible By Christine Romero-Chan Close Andy Boxall / Digital Trends Apple launched the iPhone 15 lineup recently, which includes the iPhone 15 , iPhone 15 Plus , iPhone 15 Pro , and iPhone 15 Pro Max.
 Of course, while the new series appears to be a hit with most, it’s not without its own set of issues too.
More buttons and a haptic transition Smaller cameras for the iPhone 16 Pro Even more optical zoom for the iPhone 16 Pro Max A price increase would not be so incredible There’s a lot to look forward to with the iPhone 16 Despite the fact that the iPhone 15 has only been out for a few weeks, the rumor mill for the iPhone 16 has already begun, though it’s still quite early. But from what we’ve gathered so far, it looks like the iPhone 16 could be another worthy upgrade, especially if you haven’t picked up an iPhone 15 already.
More buttons and a haptic transition Christine Romero-Chan / Digital Trends With the iPhone 15 Pro and iPhone 15 Pro Max, Apple shook things up in a big way by replacing the silent/ring toggle, which has been on the iPhone since the original, with the Action button.
The default setting for the button is to turn silent/ring on and off, but users can also customize it to do another action — such as opening the camera, starting a voice memo, turning on the flashlight, opening a Shortcut, and more. Especially with the option for Shortcuts, the possibilities that you have with the Action button are virtually endless.
Rumors are swirling that the iPhone 16 Pro will have the Action button sit flush with the device as it transitions to solid-state, rather than physical buttons like what we currently have. Additionally, it’s very likely that all models of the iPhone 16 will have a new button on the right side of the body, which also means the mmWave antenna will move to the left side to accommodate the change. This button seems to be internally called a “Capture Button,” but it’s unclear what this possible new button will actually do.
iPhone 15 Pro (left) and iPhone 14 Pro Max (right) Prakhar Khanna / Digital Trends I think the idea of a new button is quite exciting. Since it’s being internally called a “capture” button, what if it’s for capturing a photo in the Camera app? Yes, you can technically use the Action button (if it’s set to the Camera app) or volume up button to do that right now, but that works best if you have the camera module towards the bottom when holding it in horizontal orientation.
If it’s a capture button for photos and placed near the bottom on the right edge of the phone (underneath the power/Siri button), it would be perfect for capturing selfies or snapping photos with the camera module towards the top in horizontal orientation. I often find it a bit hard and uncomfortable to reach the on-screen capture button when taking a selfie because my thumb is short, so a capture button on the right would help me a lot, actually, and I’m sure I’m not the only one. That said, I could see that as an issue for anyone who uses their left hand for selfies.
That’s probably the biggest use case for a new button, though perhaps it could also work like the Action button as well. I mean, the Action button is currently limited to only one action, so I don’t see the harm in making this new button also customizable — unless Apple changes the Action button to allow for more than one action based on other gestures.
Regardless, the idea of a new button on the iPhone 16 excites me. Whether it will be for all iPhone 16 models or just the higher-end ones is still a mystery.
Smaller cameras for the iPhone 16 Pro Christine Romero-Chan / Digital Trends For the past few years, Apple has given the smaller iPhone Pro models the same camera treatment as the larger Pro Max, but the iPhone 15 line broke that trend. Apple has a new tetraprism telephoto lens that allows for up to 5x optical zoom capability, but it’s exclusive to the iPhone 15 Pro Max only.
This could change with the iPhone 16 Pro, which is rumored to use molded glass lenses that could reduce the thickness and weight of the camera bump while also increasing magnification distance. There’s also the possibility that the iPhone 16 Pro display size will be slightly larger, making it possible to house the 120mm telephoto camera that the iPhone 15 Pro Max uses.
I’m the type of person who upgrades every year, mostly for the camera improvements. However, even though the iPhone 15 Pro Max has the best camera system this year, I went with the smaller iPhone 15 Pro instead since I’m not a big fan of large phones. Personally, they’re harder for me to use comfortably as my hands are more petite, and even with larger Android phones like the Google Pixel 8 Pro , I have trouble reaching the on-screen capture button when taking photos.
If the iPhone 16 Pro is indeed going to have better optical zoom capabilities next year since a slightly larger size can house the 120mm lens, I’d be thrilled. However, I hope that the size doesn’t get too large. I would really prefer if Apple gave both Pro models the same camera treatment again, so maybe this is a step in the right direction.
Even more optical zoom for the iPhone 16 Pro Max Apple iPhone 14 Pro (left) and iPhone 15 Pro Max Andy Boxall / Digital Trends This next rumor 100% contradicts what I’m hoping for with equal camera treatment for both small and large Pro models.
Some early reports are suggesting that while competitors like Samsung might drop from 10x optical zoom on the Galaxy S24 Ultra , Apple may do the opposite and go from 5x to 10x optical zoom on the iPhone 16 Pro Max.
 This would be made possible due to Apple using advanced molded glass lenses, similar to what we just talked about for the smaller iPhone 16 Pro. This advanced molded glass could result in a smaller camera bump and increase the optical zoom distance with what would be considered a “super telephoto” lens.
While I don’t have the iPhone 15 Pro Max myself, from what I’ve heard and seen in our coverage of the phone, the 5x optical zoom is pretty great (and honestly makes me kind of regret not getting it). If the iPhone 16 Pro Max will be upping the ante by doubling the optical zoom range, then it would definitely be more tempting for me next year.
A price increase would not be so incredible Joe Maring / Digital Trends This year, the iPhone 15 lineup cost a bit more to produce than its predecessor, the iPhone 14.
 That’s not super surprising, given the fact that the standard iPhone 15 models use a new “color-infused” matte glass back, the Pro models have titanium, and the new components on the inside, like the tetraprism telephoto camera in the iPhone 15 Pro Max.
With this information, there’s a rumor floating around that the increased production cost from this year could trickle down into the prices of the iPhone 16 lineup next year. This, of course, would not be so incredible.
However, it’s important to remember that there have been rumors that the cost of the iPhone is going to go up every year , and it hasn’t really happened. Sure, the iPhone 15 Pro Max seemed like it went up this year, but that’s only because Apple eliminated the 128GB storage option for $1,099 from years past. Now, the iPhone 15 Pro Max starts at $1,199 for the 256GB version, which is the equivalent of the 256GB iPhone 14 Pro Max when that was new. The iPhone 15, iPhone 15 Plus, and iPhone 15 Pro did not get any sort of price increase this year, despite reports that we would possibly see higher prices for those.
So, while the rumors suggest that we’ll see higher prices for the iPhone 16 lineup next year, I have my doubts. This is something we hear every year, so I would take it with a grain of salt.
There’s a lot to look forward to with the iPhone 16 Christine Romero-Chan / Digital Trends I know that the iPhone 15 lineup just came out, and it’s still very early for iPhone 16 talk. But this is just the nature of the beast — once the new thing is out, the rumors start to pop up for the next one. It’s just how it goes.
I’ve been satisfied with my iPhone 15 Pro so far , but I’m still looking forward to what the iPhone 16 lineup will bring — especially if the smaller iPhone 16 Pro can get more optical zoom range, which it missed out on this year.
The idea of a capture button for what I believe could be for the camera would also be fun.
It’s far too early to know anything for certain about the iPhone 16, but assuming these reports hold some truth to them, it’s hard to not start getting excited about what Apple has in store for us next year.
Editors' Recommendations The iPad is going to get an amazing new feature in 2024 It’s finally happening — your iPhone is getting RCS in 2024 The iPhone is getting out of control This iPhone 15 and iPhone 14 camera test is closer than I expected I love Apple, but it’s totally wrong about iMessage and RCS Apple Apple iPhone Features Mobile Believe it or not, Apple didn’t always have Siri. Siri originally belonged to SRI International, which created Siri, Inc. in 2007. Then in April 2010, Apple acquired Siri, which became a key component of the iPhone 4S that launched in 2011.
Ever since then, Siri has continued to evolve at Apple, for better or for worse. While the point of Siri is to make your life easier with hands-free use of your iPhone or Apple Watch, it’s far from perfect. Siri often misunderstands you and results in hilarious requests, or is just incapable of doing what you need it to do, sometimes because of a poor connection.
Mobile I really didn’t want to put my iPhone 15 Pro Max in a case. Cases add bulk, reduce the attractiveness, and wouldn’t allow me to enjoy the vastly improved ergonomics or the feel of the titanium band around the chassis. So I vowed not to do it.
However, I’m also realistic. My expensive new phone needs some protection, especially when it is being shaken around in my bag or placed on a table. The solution came from the past, as the product I chose brought me back to the way I protected the very first iPhone models I owned when cases were far less common than they are today.
The return of the pouch Mobile It could take a while before Android phones allow satellite connectivity to assist users in emergency scenarios, thanks in no part to Qualcomm canceling its ambitious Snapdragon Satellite plans. Apple introduced satellite SOS support last year with the iPhone 14 series, with the intention of helping people when they are out of cellular or broadband coverage range.
The feature allows you to text emergency responders, share locations, and request roadside assistance. But not long after, hope emerged for Android phones. Earlier this year, Qualcomm announced Snapdragon Satellite, with the goal of aping Apple’s initiative for Android phones.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
