Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Share Wi-Fi Password on iPhone How to Restart iPhone Screen Record on iPhone Back Up an iPhone Clear Cache on iPhone Share Location on iPhone Home Mobile Features No, you really don’t need the iPhone 15 By Christine Romero-Chan Close iPhone 14 Plus (left) and iPhone 15 Plus Andy Boxall / Digital Trends If you’re reading this article, chances are high that you keep pretty up-to-date with modern technology, including smartphones like Apple’s iPhone.
 You may upgrade your phone every few years, or — if you’re like me — you might even upgrade every year.
Why old iPhones can be great Not everyone needs the latest and greatest But sometimes, it’s easy to forget that not everyone is a techie. There are people out there who use one device until it dies, no matter how bad of shape it’s in. Or they may wait until someone gifts them a “new” phone. Sometimes, we need to remember that even a slightly older model than the latest and greatest can be a huge upgrade for someone who is still using a phone from almost half a decade ago.
Why old iPhones can be great Julian Chokkattu / Digital Trends I was having a conversation with my colleagues recently about the iPhones that Apple currently has on sale — which include the new iPhone 15 lineup, the iPhone 14 , the iPhone 13 , and the 2022 iPhone SE.
 We were wondering why Apple still keeps the iPhone 13 around, which costs $600 from Apple and is already two years old.
It’s finally happening — your iPhone is getting RCS in 2024 The iPhone is getting out of control This iPhone 15 and iPhone 14 camera test is closer than I expected I briefly mentioned that my brother actually upgraded my mom’s phone from an iPhone 8 Plus to an iPhone 13 recently, while he himself went from an iPhone 12 Pro to an iPhone 15 Pro Max.
 My mom is older and definitely not tech-literate, so I feel that even an iPhone 13 is plenty for her.
Of course, my brother didn’t purchase these directly from Apple, which would have cost at least $600 alone for the iPhone 13. He did a trade-in with T-Mobile to get the phones at a discounted price while also porting over from AT&T. I don’t have all the details, but I’d imagine that he got a pretty good deal on everything.
Now, let’s think about it. For most of us, the iPhone 13 in late 2023 wouldn’t be that great. But if you’re coming from an iPhone 8 Plus, that’s a significant upgrade.
Apple iPhone 13 Dan Baker / Digital Trends Going from an iPhone 8 Plus to an iPhone 13 means a lot. It’s an upgrade from a 5.5-inch LCD display to a 6.1-inch OLED screen with a higher resolution and more pixels per inch, so everything looks clearer, sharper, and more rich in color. There’s also no more Home button for Touch ID since the iPhone 13 uses Face ID. So, even though the iPhone 8 Plus is physically larger, the iPhone 13 has a higher screen-to-body ratio.
The iPhone 13 also is a huge jump in terms of processing power with the A15 Bionic, compared to the A11 in the iPhone 8 Plus. Just navigating around will be snappier and faster, a huge improvement from a chip from six years ago.
The cameras on the iPhone 13 are also much better, with a 12MP main and ultrawide lens with sensor-shift optical image stabilization and overall larger sensors, while the iPhone 8 Plus only has a 12MP main camera and 12MP telephoto camera with 2x optical zoom. It also lacks Night mode, depth control for Portrait mode, and more. And the selfie camera is only 7MP, whereas the iPhone 13 is 12MP.
Again, these specs for the iPhone 13 aren’t super impressive when we compare it to the latest iPhone 15 lineup. But for someone who has been on an iPhone 8 Plus for the past few years, it’s a massive upgrade — especially if you could get it for free or at a really low cost.
Apple iPhone SE Jessica Lee Star / Digital Trends My grandma-in-law is also in a similar boat. She’s been using an original iPhone SE (with 32GB of storage) for as long as I can remember (I met my current husband in 2016, so she’s been using it since then). We’re planning to pass along my older iPhone 13 Pro to her once my husband sets up the iPhone 14 Pro I upgraded from, so as you can imagine, that will be a huge upgrade for her. Not only will she have way more storage (32GB to 1TB is insane), but the quality of the cameras is a big jump, too, so she can take clearer photos of my daughter when she babysits.
Not everyone needs the latest and greatest Prakhar Khanna / Digital Trends A big part of my job is to remain current and up-to-date on mobile phones, including the iPhone. But I know I’m a special case — most people don’t usually upgrade their phone every year like I do. In fact, some people don’t upgrade their phones for years, often waiting until they absolutely have to.
So, even though we may wonder why Apple continues to sell a two-year-old iPhone model alongside more recent iterations, remember — those aren’t for techies. Those “older” iPhone models are for the people who are still using an even older device and could use something a bit more modern. And for those folks, that can be the perfect upgrade.
Editors' Recommendations It looks like the iPhone 16 will get a big design upgrade How I use my Apple Watch and iPhone to manage my diabetes One of our favorite Android phones just got its own iMessage app I love Apple, but it’s totally wrong about iMessage and RCS 4 AI features I want in my next iPhone Apple Apple Events and Announcements Apple iPhone Features Mobile I really didn’t want to put my iPhone 15 Pro Max in a case. Cases add bulk, reduce the attractiveness, and wouldn’t allow me to enjoy the vastly improved ergonomics or the feel of the titanium band around the chassis. So I vowed not to do it.
However, I’m also realistic. My expensive new phone needs some protection, especially when it is being shaken around in my bag or placed on a table. The solution came from the past, as the product I chose brought me back to the way I protected the very first iPhone models I owned when cases were far less common than they are today.
The return of the pouch Mobile It could take a while before Android phones allow satellite connectivity to assist users in emergency scenarios, thanks in no part to Qualcomm canceling its ambitious Snapdragon Satellite plans. Apple introduced satellite SOS support last year with the iPhone 14 series, with the intention of helping people when they are out of cellular or broadband coverage range.
The feature allows you to text emergency responders, share locations, and request roadside assistance. But not long after, hope emerged for Android phones. Earlier this year, Qualcomm announced Snapdragon Satellite, with the goal of aping Apple’s initiative for Android phones.
Mobile The iPhone 15 Pro and iPhone 15 Pro Max have an all-new titanium body, which is the standout feature from a design perspective. However, another hardware-related feature that's even more noteworthy for these models — and future iPhones over time — is the new Action button.
The Action button replaces the ring/silent switch on the left side of the iPhone 15 Pro and iPhone 15 Pro Max. You can assign one shortcut to the button through the Settings app, such as activating and using the Camera app or turning on the phone's flashlight. To assign the button, go into the Settings app on your supported iPhone. From there, choose the Action Button, then toggle to your selection. It's that simple.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
