Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Phones Best Tablets Tesla Phone Download Android 14 Best Android Phones Home Mobile Reviews Apple iPad (2020) review: The tablet you buy as an appliance By Andrew Martonik Close $329.00 Exceptional software with long support Great battery life Colorful and clear display Connects to robust Apple ecosystem 32GB of base storage isn't enough Single tinny speaker Still Lightning, not USB-C In the technology world, “iPad” is an equally generic word to “Kleenex.” As Apple’s iPad lineup has expanded to include the Air and Pro models , it has retained a base iPad to anchor the group. It is, simply, the iPad.
 No year, no generation, no designation. It’s for the people who go online or walk into a store and say “I would like to buy an iPad today.” They can have one for just $329.
Hardware, display, and design Software, features, and battery life Our take This is Apple’s 2020 iPad — the 8th generation for those who are counting. It’s the perfect tablet for people who just want a computing appliance.
Hardware, display, and design Apple debuted an all-new design with the iPad Pro line , and just brought that design to the new iPad Air alongside a lovely new color palette. It hasn’t yet reached the economies of scale to be included in Apple’s cheap iPad, though — this looks and feels identical to the last few iPads. What’s there to say that hasn’t been repeated for years now? Apple has perfected this design.
The slab of aluminum has a perfectly flat back, pleasantly curved sides, and a little chamfer that perfectly meets the front glass. There is no flourish. It’s simply a portal to iPadOS 14. It’s an appliance, no different from your toaster or Keurig.
Image used with permission by copyright holder The 10.2-inch display is a step down from the iPad Air, though not in its 2160 x 1620 resolution, which produces the same density as the Air. However, you will notice this isn’t a laminated display. There’s a visible gap between the screen and the glass covering it, which is different from the iPad Air, iPad Pro, and every modern smartphone.
Despite this shortcoming, the screen’s colors and clarity are superb, and you only see the gap at certain viewing angles. Peak brightness is quoted at 500 nits, which is plenty — although outdoors, I have the brightness constantly pegged at 100%. The lack of lamination can cause issues outside, with more reflection in daylight than most tablets.
Unless you spend a ton of time using it outside, you’ll love this display.
I actually don’t mind the iPad’s old-school circular Touch ID sensor in terms of its functionality, but it sure does feel antiquated compared to other alternatives like an in-display fingerprint sensor , or the iPad Air’s side-mounted sensor integrated into the power button. I’d bet that this is the last iPad with the Touch ID button.
And I hope when the switch is made, the screen bezels also shrink, because they look comical. Bezels are useful for holding the tablet without touching the screen, but they don’t need to be this big.
Image used with permission by copyright holder The iPad is comfortable to hold at 1.08 pounds, and the weight is well distributed. Though you’re reminded of this design’s age again as it’s heavier than the iPad Air and iPad Pro, which both have dramatically more capability and larger displays. Regardless, it’s easy to hold the tablet up one-handed in portrait, or two-handed while watching a long video.
Video comes up short in terms of audio, though. There’s only a speaker on one side that’s easily covered by your hand and is rather tinny. The back is slippery, too, and if you want to prop it up for any sort of extended viewing or typing, you need Apple’s tri-fold Smart Cover — that’ll set you back a cool $50.
Software, features, and battery life iOS 14 is the biggest change to the iPhone’s software in years, but the same can’t be said for iPadOS 14. The iPad benefits the most from the iOS 14 move to have notifications and alerts not take over your entire screen, and there’s a new Spotlight search interface. Other than that, it’s effectively iPadOS 13.
Perhaps the biggest addition is “Scribble,” which lets you use the Apple Pencil for handwriting-to-text recognition across the interface, but of course, that requires a $99 accessory, and is a different discussion altogether.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Unfortunately, iOS 14’s App Library isn’t here, so you’re stuck manually managing pages of apps and folders, which seems archaic now. You also can’t move widgets anywhere on the home screen, which I find to be a massive oversight — although you can pin the widget pane to the left third of the main home screen in landscape.
Multitasking remains complicated — there’s a lot of power here, but it’s hard to discover and seemingly impossible to master. There’s an awkward dance of gestures to call up apps, use split-screen, and trigger floating windows, with no discoverability hints — you kind of just have to try stuff.
iPadOS 14 seems simple, but it’s hiding a steep learning curve for multitasking.
Apple likely knows the typical base iPad customer is doing far less multitasking than those buying an Air or Pro, but don’t let that discourage you from trying to get the most out of it.
With the A12 Bionic processor and plenty of screen, you can get a lot done once you plumb the depths of gesture controls for multitasking. And the iPad never skips a beat — using two or three apps at once, even with other apps in the background, it doesn’t miss a step. The iPad is clearly built with specs to handle the lofty features and capabilities of a forthcoming iPadOS 17, not 14.
The only place that isn’t ready for the future is storage. The base 32GB just isn’t enough. After a couple of days, I already had used up 23GB — but thankfully, I ordered a 128GB model. I suggest everyone do the same. It’s just a shame Apple gouges you for another $100, or 30% more, to get it.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Battery life is, as expected, fantastic. The 32 watt-hour cell offers “never think about it” longevity. Apple advertises its usual “10 hours of surfing the web or watching video,” which of course isn’t at all representative of how people use iPads. I used it for a couple hours a day for an entire workweek, with a mix of every sort of light-duty load of social media apps, email and messaging, and keeping up with YouTube and podcasts — and I didn’t have to charge once. The iPad is particularly good at sitting idle for hours (or days) without using a discernible amount of power. If you’re not actively using it, the iPad isn’t draining.
Unfortunately, alongside the relics of the design and Touch ID sensor, the iPad also still uses Lightning to charge. Let’s hope this is the last iPad to use the old port, and it’ll join every other iPad (and MacBook, and every Android phone) on USB-C. It’s just downright better. At least the charger in the box is now USB-C on the wall side.
The iPad has a camera on the back, but it might as well not. The 8-megapixel sensor is useful for taking photos of receipts or to accompany an explanatory message to a friend, but that’s about it. The 1.2MP front-facing camera handles video call duty on your app of choice, up to 720p, with quality about on par with a laptop but lagging behind a modern phone. The ease with which you can dial up a FaceTime call with loved ones is in many ways more important than the quality of the camera itself.
Our take The 8th-generation iPad isn’t exciting, but it is an exceptional tablet for $329. iPadOS 14 is easy to pick up and use, and can be extremely powerful for multitasking and light productivity work if you spend time learning it. Battery life is exceptional, and the display is great for the money. The hardware looks and feels old , but it’s incredibly effective — and most importantly, it’s built to last both physically and in terms of internal specs.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Saying that the iPad is $329 is a bit of a misnomer, however. For that money you get just 32GB of storage, which isn’t enough — you have to spend $429 to get 128GB. Ouch. And you’re basically required to get a Smart Cover that every iPad needs, which is $50 more. So, we’re really talking about a total package of $479.
But even at $429, it’s impossible to find a better overall tablet experience. Yes, if you need a keyboard for some thinly-veiled attempt at making an iPad a work machine, you should buy a Chromebook instead of a $159 keyboard accessory. But as a tablet, if you’re on a budget, you can’t do any better than the iPad.
Are there better alternatives? The Samsung Galaxy Tab A 10.1 is cheaper and a similar size. But iPadOS is entirely superior to Android on tablets, and the app selection is so far ahead it doesn’t merit comparison. The Tab A 10.1 is only a better choice if you’re really tight on budget and have no need for the tablet beyond the simplest browsing and media watching.
If you have any need for your iPad to be used for work or school, there’s a great argument that you shouldn’t be buying an iPad of any kind. Once you get the higher storage option and Apple’s keyboard, you’re well into the territory of buying a laptop. A Lenovo Chromebook Duet or an Asus Chromebook Flip is a better choice, but then you’ll deal with missing out on the iPad app ecosystem.
How long will it last? Apple has an exceptional track record for updating the software on its tablets. For example, iPadOS 14 is available all the way back to the 5th generation iPad from 2017. There’s every expectation that you’ll get at least three yearly software updates to this iPad, and it’s clear there’s enough internal hardware to handle running it.
The Lightning charging port and Touch ID sensor with a physical home button are both areas that will start to feel old quicker, but those are minimal parts of the experience compared to being able to continue to use the latest software and apps for the next few years.
Should you buy it? Yes. If you don’t have the budget allocated for an iPad Air, and just need a basic tablet as a secondary device for casual use, have one for just $329. Just be aware of the potential budget creep of wanting to buy the 128GB model and a Smart Cover for it.
Editors' Recommendations The iPad is going to get an amazing new feature in 2024 Best tablet deals: Save on iPad, Galaxy Tab, Fire tablet, and more Best iPad deals: Save on 10.2-inch iPad, iPad Pro, and more The best tablets in 2023: top 11 tablets you can buy now The best Android tablets in 2023: the 10 best ones you can buy Apple Apple iPad iPhone and iPad Reviews Product Reviews Tablet Reviews Mobile Apple caused a stir this week by launching a third version of its Apple Pencil. Although it's not unusual for tech companies to release updated versions of their products, it's somewhat confusing as the new Apple Pencil joins the two existing models in the lineup. This means three Apple Pencils are available now, all of which look very similar. Despite the three input devices performing similar tasks, they differ in key areas, as their price differences suggest.
Here's a comparison of the Apple Pencil, Apple Pencil (2nd generation), and the all-new Apple Pencil (USB-C). If you aren't sure which one to buy, you've come to the right place.
Apple Pencil (1st generation) Mobile When you have the best iPhone, you pretty much have infinite possibilities for keepingbusy and entertained, no matter where you are. Sure, the iPhone may not be marketed as a gaming phone specifically, but it's pretty powerful — especially with the A17 Pro in the latest iPhone 15 Pro. That new processor means the Apple mobile gaming experience is only getting better and better, with Apple's new chip being able to play console-level games like Assassin's Creed Mirage and the Resident Evil 4 remake.
While those games aren't available yet, there's no shortage of great games to play. But when the App Store has over a million apps, how are you supposed to find the best games to play? Don't worry -- we're here to help! Since there are a ton of games out there — and not every game is a winner — it's definitely hard to find games that are worth your time and energy. Whether you're looking for a simple match 3, an MMORPG, a dungeon crawler, or even something to just relax with, here are the best iPhone games you can play right now.
Mobile Apple has been relatively silent since announcing the iPhone 15 series and new Apple Watches in September. However, there are rumors that new iPads could be announced soon. Although Apple didn't announce any new iPads on October 17 as originally suspected, it's evident that new iPads are likely coming at some point in the near future.
As the announcement will almost certainly be made through an online press release, not a full-blown press event, you might think these updates won't be significant. Still, this news could not have come at a better time for those planning to buy an iPad, as the holiday buying season is starting to ramp up.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
