Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Phones Best Tablets Tesla Phone Download Android 14 Best Android Phones Home Mobile Reviews Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Apple iPad Air (2020) review: The iPad Pro for everyone else By Andrew Martonik Close $599.00 Excellent hardware design Strong battery life and USB-C Wonderful display Pro-level performance Magic Keyboard support Fast fingerprint sensor Base 64GB of storage Expensive upsell to 256GB On the face of it, the new iPad Air (4th gen) looks like a perfect Goldilocks iPad. Compared to the base iPad, it has dramatically better specs, a completely new design, a much better display, and double the base storage. At the same time, it’s $200 cheaper than the 11-inch iPad Pro , but looks and feels nearly identical, and in all practical purposes offers the same core experience, including support for the Apple Pencil 2 and Magic Keyboard.
Hardware, design, and display Software, features, and battery life Our take So for $599, is the new iPad Air the tablet to get? Actually, it just may be the best value you can get in an iPad today.
Hardware, design, and display Apple did an exceptional job with the design of the latest iPad Pros, so I’m not upset in the slightest that the iPad Air is a carbon copy. The metal body is perfectly flat across the back — save for the camera bump — and runs into flat sides. It just feels fresh and modern compared to the old curvy style — particularly now that it fits with the iPhone 12’s design.
 It’s also available in a wider variety of colors, which are much more playful than any prior iPad. Even though most people will go for a boring color like my Space Gray model, you can go bright if you want to express your personality a bit. (The iPad Pro is stuck with gray and silver, for now.) Andrew Martonik / Digital Trends It’s reasonable to think that the design would be tough on your hand, but it isn’t. The transitions from back to side are nice and smooth, and the corners have a wide radius, so it’s quite comfortable whether you’re just propping it up with one hand or holding it in landscape mode with two. And with its extremely light 1-pound weight, which is evenly distributed, it definitely earns its “Air” moniker.
Because it’s missing Face ID from the Pro, you’ll find a Touch ID fingerprint sensor integrated into the power button. It’s positioned well to use with your right index finger when holding it vertically, and your left index finger when horizontal. And the initial setup process makes it clear that you need to teach it both directions. Following that quick tutorial, the sensor was fast and accurate. While it may not be as seamless as Face ID, it’s a perfectly usable authentication method — and it no longer requires a large screen bezel to be embedded in the home button.
Andrew Martonik/Digital Trends The 10.9-inch display is simply wonderful. There’s just enough bezel around it to easily get a grip with your thumb when needed, but it’s not so big that it feels clunky. It isn’t the same display as the iPad Pro, but to most people’s eyes, it looks like it could be. It has the same pixel density, super-low reflectivity, wide color gamut, and True Tone color adjustment. It’s technically not as bright, but I never had trouble seeing the screen indoors or outdoors. The fact that it’s a laminated display and has incredibly low reflectivity means that even in direct sun, you can still use it easily.
The hardware is perfect, and the display is simply wonderful.
The only flaw, if you could call it that, I found is a bit of white-pink color shift when the screen is viewed a bit off-axis, which really only comes into play if someone sitting next to you is also looking at the tablet. You could also point to the fact that this display has just a 60Hz refresh rate, not the dynamic 120Hz “Pro Motion” of the iPad Pro. If you’re used to an iPad Pro, you’ll notice; if you are used to any other iPad, you’d never complain because iPadOS is so smooth, it really helps make up the difference.
Another Pro-level feature of the Air is its speakers. You get an equal-sized pair of speakers split on the sides (in landscape) for balanced sound that can get incredibly loud. The placement makes it nearly impossible to block all of the sound, and the 50/50 split makes it much more immersive for video watching.
Whether it was just taking the easy way out or a stroke of genius, making the iPad Air compatible with existing iPad Pro keyboard accessories is a huge benefit. That means the existing $179 keyboard folio (which is nicer than the one for the base iPad, by the way) and the absurdly expensive but completely amazing $299 Magic Keyboard work with the Air. Chances are if the Air had a distinct design, it’d be stuck with just a folio and not get its own version of the Magic Keyboard.
The iPad Air almost requires a keyboard — and that’ll set you back at least $170.
I opted to get a regular folio with my Air because I think that spending $300 on a keyboard for a $600 iPad is absurd. But I can easily see the argument that by saving $200 from not getting the iPad Pro, you can justify that steep price tag. And if you’re going to use the iPad Air for any semblance of work or computer-like tasks, you absolutely need a keyboard. The keyboard folio definitely gets the job done, and I’m able to type on it very quickly, but I wish one of its two stand angles was flatter. It also suffers from the same problem as all keyboarded iPads (sans the Magic Keyboard) in that it can be a bit wobbly when actually using it on your lap. That’s just part of trying to make an iPad into a laptop-level productivity machine.
Another slightly awkward part of that horizontal-first use is the front-facing camera, which is on the lefthand side when you’re docked on the keyboard. The 7-megapixel sensor is fine and fully gets the job done for video calls with 1080p resolution, but having it off to the left — making it look like you’re not paying attention — always feels weird compared to a laptop.
Software, features, and battery life We all know the details of iPadOS 14 at this point. Coming from any other iPad, you’ll feel right at home on the Air. But with this big screen and extra power at your disposal, you’ll want to refresh your knowledge of the myriad multitasking gestures available in iPadOS. Without knowing how to open split view and lide Over for multi-window management, or the gestures to quickly hop between apps and pull up the dock without going home, you really miss out on the power of this machine. While iPadOS continues to struggle with approachability, there’s no real affordance to learn all of its capabilities. But once you do, you’ll be surprised by how much you can get done.
Andrew Martonik/Digital Trends Andrew Martonik/Digital Trends And you certainly can get a lot done on the Air, thanks to its A14 Bionic chip that’s shared with the iPhone 12. It’s technically faster for single-core performance than the iPad Pro’s A12Z, though it’s also technically a tad behind for multi-core performance. Regardless, you wouldn’t know the difference — the iPad Air flies through any task. You really only hit a limitation if you’re using an intense graphical app and cycling through Slide Over apps — but that’s just a subtle delay. It’s likely due to the Air having only 4GB of RAM (memory), to the iPad Pro’s 6GB.
Apple talks a big game with the multi-camera array, and LiDAR sensor, on the iPad Pro, but for most people the simple single 12MP camera on the Air will be more than enough for the occasional snap. Despite hopes that the high-end cameras and depth sensing would turn the iPad Pro into some sort of revolutionary AR device for gaming and doing interior design work, it simply hasn’t. A vast majority of people will be happy that the Air has a smaller camera bulge, and the price is lower.
The only spec actually holding the iPad Air back is its storage, which is a meager 64GB in the base model. And there’s only one upgrade option: 256GB, for $150 extra. Having an upsell for more storage that’s 25% of the base price is really rough, especially when you look at the simple storage upgrade on something like the iPhone 12 , which charges just $50 to go from 64GB to 128GB.
That being said, I’m using only 22GB of my 64GB model after two weeks, but perhaps I’m not the heaviest iPad user because it’s a secondary device to my MacBook Pro. But if you’re aiming to use an iPad Air like most would a Pro , loading up huge “pro” apps and lots of media content, that storage could vanish quickly. Alternatively, I suppose you could really lean into iCloud — that $150 upsell charge could cover a 200GB storage plan for over four years.
There’s more than enough power here, and battery life continues to be an iPad strong suit.
The key benefit of using an iPad over a similarly priced laptop is battery. The iPad Air can easily handle the heaviest day of work, with 6-plus hours of “screen-on” time, and no battery mitigation measures, and still have plenty of battery remaining. Simple tasks like just streaming video or browsing barely touch the battery, and iPadOS continues to be fantastic at using barely any power when not actively in use. Considering very few people are using the Air as their only computing device, there’s no doubt that it can be part of your device usage every day and go multiple days on a charge.
And my goodness — I’m way too excited about this, but I don’t care — the iPad Air now charges over USB-C! Yes, now I can charge my Air with the same exact cable and charger I use with my MacBook and Android phones. Yes, I have an iPhone and so there are Lightning cables around, but my apartment is littered with USB-C cables of all lengths and types, and it just makes it dead-simple to charge my iPad. It also has the knock-on effect of letting me charge phones from the iPad, which is actually really nice to have in a pinch.
For your hefty $599 price tag, you also get a 20-watt USB-C charging brick in the box, as well as a nice (albeit short) USB-C cable. But I doubt I’ll ever touch them.
Our take The base iPad is a tablet you buy as an appliance — something you need, but you’re not excited about. The new iPad Air is a tablet you buy as an aspirational tool — you desire to have it, and you’ll strive to make the most of its capabilities when it arrives. And it has to chops to handle a whole lot of what you’ll throw at it.
The hardware is superb, as is the display, and nothing about the design or feeling in your hands makes you think for a second that you saved $200 over an iPad Pro. Apple perfectly trimmed the parts of the iPad Pro that most people won’t care about, and kept everything else that makes it great, including Apple Pencil and Magic Keyboard support. Pair it with a keyboard, and learn the quirks of iPadOS, and you can even turn this into a pretty capable laptop replacement — so long as you know its limitations, which are in the software far more than the ultracapable specs.
The only knock against the Air is in its pricing if you don’t want to get a keyboard and push the limits of the A14 Bionic. If this is going to just be a tablet for media consumption and casual browsing, $599 is a steep price and the extra capabilities of this hardware will be lost on you. But just knowing you can do much more could be enough to make you spend the money and get this, the best all-around iPad model.
Are there better alternatives? There are only two alternatives to the iPad Air, and only one is a reasonable comparison. You can spend $429 on an iPad (8th gen) with 128GB of storage , but frankly it isn’t a proper competitor. The base iPad is a fine tablet for a lot of uses, but it isn’t in the same league in terms of performance or display quality, and doesn’t at all exude the sense of being high-end in the way the iPad Air and Pro do. It also isn’t compatible with the Apple Pencil 2 or the Magic Keyboard.
So the real decision here is between the iPad Air and 11-inch iPad Pro, which starts at $799.
 For that money, you get 128GB of storage, as well as Face ID, a 120Hz ProMotion display , and additional cameras. But otherwise, in the core features and fundamentals of what most people will use the iPad for, the experience really isn’t appreciably different. Just like buying an iPhone 12 Pro or a MacBook Pro, you’re spending quite a bit extra to eke out that last bit of extra power, performance, and features over the base model.
How long will it last? One of the big benefits of buying an iPad of any level is excellent long-term software support. You can expect the iPad Air to get another five versions of iPadOS, if you’re so inclined to hang onto it for that long. And better yet, with the iPad Air’s incredibly powerful A14 chipset, it’ll be able to run those future iPadOS versions without any issue.
Should you buy it? Yes. If you’ve been eyeing an iPad Pro but didn’t want to spend that much money, the iPad Air is a great place to land. You’ll get most of the experience of an 11-inch iPad Pro, but save a considerable amount of money. However, if you can’t get the iPad Pro from the back of the mind, you can always wait for the Black Friday iPad deals that are around the corner.
Editors' Recommendations The iPad is going to get an amazing new feature in 2024 Best iPad deals: Save on 10.2-inch iPad, iPad Pro, and more The new Apple Pencil is cheaper, gets USB-C, and is missing critical features iPhone 15 Pro overheating? Apple just issued a patch to fix it iPhone 15 Pro overheating? Apple is (finally) on the case Apple Apple Apple iPad iPhone and iPad Reviews Product Reviews Tablet Reviews Mobile It’s hard to find a tablet lineup more popular than Apple’s iPad lineup, which is why they can get quite expensive and why they don’t often see a discount. One way to land a great iPad deal, however, is by shopping refurbished iPad deals. You’ll find amongst them some of the best tablet deals available, as well as many of the best iPads Apple has to offer. Several iPads you can buy refurbished are still among the best tablets as well. Most even come with a warranty, so you can shop refurbished iPad deals with some peace of mind. We’ve tracked down all of the best refurbished iPad deals you can currently grab, so read onward for more details.
Apple iPad Mini (2015) — from $116 The original Apple iPad Mini isn’t going to have the capability of the current Apple iPad Mini, but it still has a lot to offer. This is an especially good iPad to consider if you’re looking for ultimate portability. It has a smaller footprint than other iPad models, yet still has a good amount of storage space with a 128GB hard drive. This iPad deal includes a 1-year warranty and free 30-day returns.
Mobile At the Worldwide Developers Conference (WWDC 2023), Apple unveiled the latest version of iPadOS — iPadOS 17, equipped with new features and improvements. The update brings new ways of customizing the lock screen, interacting with widgets, and working on PDFs in the Notes app. Additionally, the Health app is now available on iPads for the first time.
The iPadOS 17 update, while perhaps featuring fewer new or updated features than previous versions, still brings several noteworthy changes and improvements. For instance, the Messages app has received some updates, as has FaceTime. Additionally, Safari and Password have seen some tweaks and improvements. In addition to these changes, the update includes new sticker packs, which can add fun and creativity to your conversations. While it may not be the most extensive update, iPadOS 17 still brings valuable and enjoyable improvements.
Mobile It's the dawn of a new era for Apple smartphones, and heralding the change are Apple's latest flagships, the iPhone 15 Pro and its 15 Pro Max variant. These two phones get a blazing-fast processor, a switch to more premium materials, and — most importantly— a USB-C port instead of the usual Lightning connector. The premium phones were updated alongside the standard iPhone 15 and iPhone 15 Max, Apple Watch Series 9, and Apple Watch Ultra 2.
It's disappointing to see that Apple's September 2023 event didn't bring a major iPhone redesign, but this time it appears that Apple wants to focus more on internal upgrades than aesthetics.
Titanium is here, and it's beautiful Color options for iPhone 15 Pro series Apple Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
