Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Phones Best Tablets Tesla Phone Download Android 14 Best Android Phones Home Mobile Reviews Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Apple Magic Keyboard Folio for iPad review: $249 of weirdness By Joe Maring Close $249.00 Two-piece design is versatile Kickstand feels great Quiet, comfortable typing Function keys are excellent Roomier trackpad Limited stand positions No keyboard backlighting Disappointing protection Incredibly high price The iPad (2022) is an important tablet for a few different reasons. It marks the biggest redesign ever for the baseline iPad, is the first one with a landscape front-facing camera, and helps move Apple closer to an all-USB-C future.
 It’s also the iPad that Apple has used to introduce its new Magic Keyboard Folio.
Apple Magic Keyboard Folio design Magic Keyboard Folio typing Magic Keyboard Folio durability Magic Keyboard Folio price and availability The Magic Keyboard Folio is (almost) great On paper, the Magic Keyboard Folio sounds like the Apple keyboard accessory we’ve been waiting for — flaunting a two-piece detachable design, a dedicated function row, and a lower price. All of those things are greatly appreciated, and they help make the Magic Keyboard Folio very enjoyable to use. But just like the iPad (2022) itself, a combination of bizarre design decisions and fierce competition hold the Magic Keyboard Folio back from being the must-have accessory it could have been. Instead, it ends up being a bit weird.
Apple Magic Keyboard Folio design Joe Maring/Digital Trends One of the most frustrating things about the Magic Keyboard for the iPad Air and iPad Pro is the limiting nature of its design. The one-piece keyboard is easy to use and keep track of, but it also has some very real flaws. The stand has very few viewing positions for the iPad, and there’s no way to remove the keyboard and just use it as a stand for watching movies or playing games — the keyboard is always there.
The Magic Keyboard Folio addresses these things by adopting a new two-piece structure. First, you attach the stand portion to the back of the iPad. It snaps on instantly via magnets, and you can use it as a simple way to prop up your iPad on a table, desk, or another flat surface. It’s perfect for watching YouTube or playing a game like Call of Duty: Mobile with a controller, and I’ve often found myself using the folio case with just the back attached.
Joe Maring/Digital Trends But that’s only half of the equation. When you’re ready to start typing, the keyboard snaps onto the bottom frame of your iPad using three smart connectors. Once it’s attached, you can instantly start typing and using the trackpad — no charging required. You can then take the keyboard off when you’re done using it, or fold it up onto the screen for front and back protection.
After using the Magic Keyboard and Magic Keyboard Folio side-by-side for a few days, there’s no doubt that the added versatility of the Folio option is much more practical. It’s a great keyboard when you want it, a reliable stand when you aren’t typing, and switching between the two modes is a piece of cake.
This is as far back as the stand goes.
Joe Maring/Digital Trends While most of this design is great, there are a couple of things I’d like to see improved in a second-gen version. As much as I like the stand, I wish it were more flexible. It’s great for propping the iPad up to watch a show or do some productivity work, but it doesn’t get anywhere close to lying flat on a table — making it a bit awkward if you want to use the stand while writing or drawing.
I also wish Apple offered more than just the single white color. It looks good and sleek, but a couple of other styles to choose from would have been great.
Magic Keyboard Folio typing Joe Maring/Digital Trends As for the typing experience, I’ve quite enjoyed tapping away on the Magic Keyboard Folio. Like the Magic Keyboard before it, the Magic Keyboard Folio uses scissor switches that have 1mm of travel. And they’re really nice! The keys are tactile without being noisy, feel comfortable even during long typing sessions, and are very accurate. I can easily reach over 90 words per minute on the Magic Keyboard Folio, which is about my average typing speed on my desktop keyboard. The best part? The function row! You now have dedicated shortcut keys for things like brightness, volume, media playback, Spotlight Search, Siri, and more. Those 14 extra keys have been invaluable while using the Magic Keyboard Folio, and I desperately miss them whenever I switch back to the Magic Keyboard on my iPad Pro.
Joe Maring/Digital Trends As nice as the keyboard feels, there is one glaring omission here: backlighting. The Magic Keyboard for the iPad Air and Pro has backlighting for all of the keys — making it easily usable in a dark or dimly-lit room. The Magic Keyboard Folio doesn’t have any such backlighting, so when the lights go out, you’ll have a difficult time seeing what keys you’re using.
Lastly, it’s worth mentioning the trackpad. It’s silky smooth, easy to press, and offers a wide array of gestures for navigating iPadOS.
 It’s also slightly taller than the trackpad on the Magic Keyboard, giving you more room to perform those many gestures. It doesn’t quite make up for the lack of backlighting, but it’s a nice update regardless.
Magic Keyboard Folio durability Joe Maring/Digital Trends I think Apple has the right idea with the two-piece design, and I generally prefer it over the “normal” Magic Keyboard. But while it may be more functional, it also raises some serious durability concerns.
For starters, the Magic Keyboard Folio leaves the top, right, and bottom frames of the iPad totally exposed to the elements. This is also true of the previous Magic Keyboard, but it still doesn’t bode well for how well the Magic Keyboard Folio will protect your iPad in the event of a fall.
Compounding that concern are the magnets that hold the keyboard in place when it’s folded up and covering the iPad’s screen. All it takes is a small nudge with your thumb to break the magnetic connection and shuffle the keyboard all over the place. I’m not the first one to notice these weak magnets, and I’m sure I won’t be the last.
I didn’t mention this in my review because frankly there were so many other baffling things to point out about the Magic Keyboard Folio, but I can confirm my unit does this too and it’s extremely unbecoming of a $250 keyboard accessory https://t.co/2M5iqOKaYI &mdash; dan skellington (@dcseifert) October 24, 2022 Not only does this make the Magic Keyboard Folio feel cheap but it has me really concerned about ever dropping my iPad while in the case. If all it takes is my finger to move the keyboard this much, I can only imagine what’ll happen if it falls from a desk or table. This also isn’t a problem at all on the standard Magic Keyboard, which keeps the keyboard in place no matter how much you fiddle with it. Call it nitpicking if you want, but for an accessory that costs $249, it’s not a good look.
Magic Keyboard Folio price and availability The Magic Keyboard Folio is available for purchase now , and as mentioned above, it’ll set you back $249. That’s a little cheaper than the $299 starting price for the Magic Keyboard, but not by much. You can get it direct from Apple’s website, or via third-party retailers like Amazon and Best Buy.
It’s also worth noting that the Magic Keyboard Folio only works with the iPad (2022) — not any of the other models. Apple’s bound to make versions available for the iPad Air and Pro at some point, but for now, this is an iPad (2022)-only accessory.
The Magic Keyboard Folio is (almost) great Joe Maring/Digital Trends Similar to the conclusion of my iPad (2022) review , I’ve enjoyed using the Magic Keyboard Folio while also recognizing it’s a product I can’t quite recommend.
The move to a two-piece design for the Magic Keyboard is great. It’s more practical than the normal Magic Keyboard, the typing experience is still excellent, and the function row is unbelievably useful in daily use. But while Apple got the basics nailed down, it’s in the smaller details where things begin to fall apart.
No backlit keys is a shame, the stand’s flexibility is limiting, and the flimsy magnets don’t inspire much durability confidence. I’d be willing to overlook some of these things if the Magic Keyboard Folio weren’t so expensive, but at $249 — over half the price of the iPad (2022) — I expect better.
There’s also the fact that other, similar keyboards exist for much less money. Take the Logitech Combo Touch as an example. It has the same two-piece design, full frame/edge protection for the iPad (2022), a much more flexible stand, a built-in loop for the Apple Pencil, and costs just $159. Put it side-by-side with the Magic Keyboard Folio, and I struggle to see how Apple’s option comes out on top.
I don’t think the Magic Keyboard Folio is a bad product. Instead, it comes up a little short for its asking price and is outclassed by the competition. You know, just like the iPad (2022). I’m interested to see Apple continue with this form factor and hope it expands to other iPad models in the future — just with less funk.
Editors' Recommendations The iPad is going to get an amazing new feature in 2024 Best iPad deals: Save on 10.2-inch iPad, iPad Pro, and more The new Apple Pencil is cheaper, gets USB-C, and is missing critical features Best refurbished iPad deals: Get an iPad with warranty for $116 Can my iPad get iPadOS 17? Here’s every compatible model Apple Apple iPad iPhone and iPad Reviews Mobile Apple appears set to overhaul the iPad Pro, though the refreshed tablet seems unlikely to hit the market until next year.
The news appeared on Sunday courtesy of Bloomberg’s Mark Gurman, who often calls it right with Apple-related news.
Mobile The iPhone's built-in keyboard may not suit everyone's preferences. Its limited features might leave some users desiring more variety and flexibility, especially on larger phones like the iPhone 14 Pro Max or smaller models like the iPhone 13 mini or iPhone SE 2022.
We have researched and compiled a comprehensive list of the best third-party keyboards for iPhone, which can greatly enhance your texting experience. These keyboards offer a variety of features and customization options, such as adjustable key size, swipe typing, themes, and easier access to emojis. With most of them available for free and some offering premium subscription options, you can easily find a keyboard that suits your needs and preferences.
Computing Pretty much all Apple products are some of the best-in-class for their respective type of tech. However, you do pay for the privilege with many devices like iPads or MacBooks costing a little more than non-Apple variants. That's why it's so useful to find great Apple deals like the ones below. We've picked out some of the best ways to save substantially on highly sought after Apple products from accessories to AirPods and more. Take a look below at some of our favorite Apple deals right now.
AirTags (4-pack) -- $89, was $99 If you worry about misplacing items, you need Apple AirTags. With a simple one-tap setup, your iPhone or iPad is instantly connected to an AirTag so that you can always use find items via the Find My app. That could be your car keys, your bag, or anything else that you can fit or slip an AirTag into. If you misplace something, you can simply put the AirTag into Lost Mode to be notified when it's detected in the Find My network helping you pin it down. You can also play a sound through the built-in speaker if you know it's nearby but you're not sure if it's worth moving the couch to find it.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
