Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Share Wi-Fi Password on iPhone How to Restart iPhone Screen Record on iPhone Back Up an iPhone Clear Cache on iPhone Share Location on iPhone Home Mobile Reviews iPhone 11 Pro Max review: Turning everything up to max By Julian Chokkattu Close $1,099.00 Class-leading cameras Stellar battery life with fast charging Bright display Slick iOS 13 software with consistent updates High-quality build Camera design is a miss No USB-C Want the best price on the iPhone 11 Pro Max? Check out our favorite Black Monday iPhone 11 Pro Max deals.
Matte magic Big-screen fun Camera trio Unlimited power, slick iOS 13 Stellar battery life Price, availability, and warranty Our take There’s nearly nothing wrong with the iPhone 11 Pro Max.
 The screen is excellent, games run lag-free, and the triple-camera system is versatile and effective, but what I’ve been most impressed by is its battery life. I’ve had to force myself to use the phone even more than normal to hit 30 percent before midnight.
It looks like the iPhone 16 will get a big design upgrade One of our favorite Android phones just got its own iMessage app iPhone update fixes troublesome bug that broke NFC features for some users This isn’t just the best iPhone ever — it’s the best smartphone you can buy. Period.
Matte magic The iPhone 11 Pro Max is slightly taller and wider than its predecessor, but what you’ll notice the most is how it is 18 grams heavier. I quickly got used to it, but the added weight does make this already-expensive phone feel even more luxurious. This is still a large phone, given its 6.5-inch screen size, and it does require two hands to reach the top of the screen.
It remains one of the few phones made of stainless steel, and it feels just as high-end as that sentence felt to write. It’s more durable than the aluminum you’ll find on most smartphones (including the iPhone 11). The back and front are wrapped in “durable” glass, but what’s new here is the matte texture on the back. It’s fantastic. It doesn’t attract ugly fingerprints, so I’m not wasting half my day wiping it clean, plus I prefer matte aesthetics over the glossy kind. Apple’s not the first company to explore this type of texture; Google did it last year with the Pixel 3.
Image used with permission by copyright holder The new midnight green color is a nice change of pace from the usual gold, silver, and space grey, though I’m a sucker for the more colorful options found on the more affordable iPhone 11 (lookin’ at you, purple).
While we’re on the back of the iPhone, let’s talk about the camera design. It’s not great, though it is growing on me. The holes are so huge that they stand out a little too much, as though Apple really wants you to show everyone that you have an iPhone 11 Pro Max — not an iPhone 11 or an iPhone XS. The lenses are raised and have a metal bezel around them, but then the square camera module around them itself is also raised. The raised glass is sharp and angular; it’s not a pleasant feeling running your finger on the back and hitting the camera module.
It doesn’t attract ugly fingerprints, so I’m not wasting half my day wiping it clean.
I don’t think the camera design is ugly, but I also think Apple could have done better. One thing to note, the camera module does collect a bit of dust around the rings (as you can see in the picture above), so this area does require a bit of cleaning now and then.
The front is another area where Apple could do bettr. The 6.5-inch screen is wrapped with bezels that appear slim when looking at the iPhone individually, but put it next to phones like the Galaxy Note 10 Plus or the OnePlus 7 Pro , and you’ll see a difference. Apple hasn’t slimmed these bezels down since the iPhone X , which was two years ago, whereas Samsung has been introducing a more svelte look every year. Don’t get me wrong, the iPhone 11 Pro Max’s screen still looks modern and beautiful, but thinning out the edges a little more would have been nice.
I’m not going to complain too much about the notch, because it houses the tech necessary for Face ID, which remains the best biometric authentication technology available on a phone. It’s fast to unlock, works in any lighting conditions, and I’ll take it over an in-display fingerprint sensor any day.
Big-screen fun The 6.5-inch size might be a bit unwieldy in the hand, but who cares about that when you have such a vast screen for watching videos and movies? I love the big OLED screen and the extra real estate it offers, especially when playing games.
Apple said it’s using a Super Retina XDR screen, which delivers impressive brightness, incredibly accurate colors, and a sharp 2,688 x 1,242 resolution. I’ve had zero trouble watching shows with a lot of dark scenes, like The Spy on Netflix, in bright sunlight — it helps that the brightness can go all the way up to 1,200 nits in HDR scenes (800 nits is typical brightness).
Julian Chokkattu/Digital Trends Putting it side-by-side with the Note 10 Plus, scenes from Netflix movies, like the new film, Between Two Ferns, are brighter and easier to see on the iPhone. The Note often tends to show cooler tones too, whereas the iPhone has warmer ones with better white balance. Both these screens are excellent, but I’m enjoying the display on the iPhone a little more.
What are the speakers like? It’s a stereo setup with one at the top of the phone (the earpiece) and a bottom-firing one. The system doesn’t get as loud as phones like the Note 10 Plus, but music sounds a little richer. When listening to Israel Kamakawiwoʻole’s Somewhere Over the Rainbow , his voice doesn’t sound as raspy as it does on the Note phone. Bass isn’t strong at all, but it’s a little more clear than Samsung’s phone. If you want the best smartphone speaker, check out the Razer Phone 2 , but you’re better off buying a Bluetooth speaker.
The speakers support Dolby Atmos for a surround sound experience, which I’ve noticed more when playing games that rely on stereo sound.
Camera trio Julian Chokkattu/Digital Trends Yes, the iPhone 11 Pro and iPhone 11 Pro Max are among the best camera phones available. It’s not just the fact that Apple has added an extra lens — yes, it adds versatility — but that the improvements largely come from image processing.
Smart HDR is, well, smarter. There’s a Night Mode for superior low-light photos, and a new feature called semantic rendering that snaps several underexposed photos before you tap the shutter button, the photo you want when you tap the button, and an overexposed shot afterward to balance out the lighting and merge them together. The camera can also understand specific parts of the photo, like a face or a flower, and apply separate Smart HDR improvements to those areas rather than a blanket change to the whole photo.
All of this is viewed through the triple-camera system, which packs 12 megapixels per sensor. The main f/1.8 sensor is the standard wide-angle. Then there’s the telephoto lens, which now has a wider f/2.0 aperture for better low-light photography, and the new ultra-wide-angle lens, which has an f/2.4 aperture and a 120-degree field of view so you can take in more of a scene.
The new ultra-wide-angle lens isn’t entirely unique, but it’s still somewhat special among flagship phones. Google’s Pixel 4, the popular Android alternative won’t have a wide-angle lens.
Previous Next 1 7 Ultra-wide-angle lens Image used with permission by copyright holder Ultra-wide-angle lens Image used with permission by copyright holder Normal lens Image used with permission by copyright holder Telephoto lens Image used with permission by copyright holder Telephoto lens Image used with permission by copyright holder Normal lens Image used with permission by copyright holder Ultra-wide-angle lens Image used with permission by copyright holder Photos snapped during the day deliver largely natural colors, sometimes with a bit of a warm tone. Details are impeccably strong, and switching between each of these lenses feels seamless and smooth.
The telephoto lens now offers up more detail in lower-light conditions, but I wish the same could be said for the new ultra-wide-angle lens. It takes fantastic daytime shots, but it doesn’t perform that well at night, as you can see in the below comparison with the Samsung Galaxy Note 10 Plus.
iPhone 11 Pro Max, ultra-wide-angle lens Image used with permission by copyright holder Samsung Galaxy Note 10 Plus, ultra-wide-angle lens Image used with permission by copyright holder I also wish Apple allowed autofocus on it. It’s fixed focus, which means you need to be 1 meter away from a subject for it to be in focus, so you can’t get super-close for some unique perspectives.
Finally, a Night Mode Huawei and Google have pushed the needle with low-light photography after they introduced respective Night Modes on their smartphones, and Apple is playing catchup by finally adding it on the iPhone — except that the quality is a step above its competitors.
Night Mode triggers automatically when the camera deems there’s not enough light. You can either leave it in the default state, which usually snaps a 3- to 2-second-long exposure (that means you’ll need to keep as still as you can to avoid a blurry photo) or choose “Max” to force it to snap as many pictures as it can, but this also is up to the camera based on how much it thinks is necessary. Ten seconds seems to be the average in dark situations, but I’ve seen it go even longer. If you put it on a tripod, the camera can understand that it’s stable and can snap even more photos.
Previous Next 1 6 Night Mode Image used with permission by copyright holder Night Mode Image used with permission by copyright holder No night mode Image used with permission by copyright holder Night mode Image used with permission by copyright holder Night mode Image used with permission by copyright holder No Night mode Image used with permission by copyright holder There’s an option to turn it off, but why would you want to? If you’re trying to snap an image of a subject that’s moving a little, turning Night Mode off will allow you to capture the image faster and in focus, whereas a long exposure would just make the photo extra blurry. For the most part, it’s good to leave it on, as the camera’s decision is usually the correct one.
The gallery above has a collection of Night Mode photos and some photos of Night Mode turned off as a comparison. On the whole — permitted you don’t move your hands too much — Night Mode elevates the iPhone’s low-light photography game to the point where it can compete with, if not surpass, phones like the Google Pixel 3. The downside is that Night Mode does not work on the telephoto or wide-angle lens, so your versatility dips a bit in poor lighting conditions.
iPhone 11 Pro Max Image used with permission by copyright holder Pixel 3 XL Image used with permission by copyright holder Galaxy Note 10 Plus Image used with permission by copyright holder You can see how the iPhone 11 Pro Max’s Night Mode maintained the colors in the above photo, while still ensuring strong details and good contrast, beating out the shots from the Pixel 3 and the Note 10 Plus, which were captured with their respective Night Modes.
The best part is how the iPhone largely maintains the ambiance of the scene with its Night Mode, whereas Night Modes from Google or Samsung can sometimes brighten up the image too much and ruin the overall look. It’s a different style, but one that I’m in favor of.
Portrait mode and selfies My favorite change in Portrait mode is that you can now capture a photo not just with the telephoto lens, but also the main f/1.8 lens as well. Here’s what the difference can look like: Normal lens, portrait Image used with permission by copyright holder Telephoto lens, portrait Image used with permission by copyright holder It means you can actually get great-looking portraits at night; the portrait photo from the normal lens has a ton more detail than the grainy and blurry one from the telephoto. That wasn’t possible on last year’s iPhone XS Max. If you’re interested in comparisons with last year’s iPhone XS Max, check out our camera shootout.
Portrait mode still isn’t perfect, but it produces some of the most DSLR-like images among its competition. The Pixel 3 still gives it a run for its money, though.
Previous Next 1 6 iPhone 11 Pro Max Image used with permission by copyright holder Pixel 3 XL Image used with permission by copyright holder iPhone 11 Pro Max Image used with permission by copyright holder Pixel 3 XL Image used with permission by copyright holder iPhone 11 Pro Max Image used with permission by copyright holder iPhone 11 Pro Max Digital Trends The selfie camera has been upgraded to 12 megapixels from 7 megapixels last year, but selfies in portrait orientation shoot at a 7-megapixel crop by default. You can tap on the icon above the shutter to get a wider 12-megapixel view, allowing for more of the background to be in your image.
These selfies are more detailed and offer up natural colors, and portrait mode selfies do a decent job of correctly outlining the subject and applying the blur effect to the background.
1.
iPhone 11 Pro, selfie 2.
Pixel 3 XL, selfie 3.
iPhone 11 Pro Max, portrait selfie 4.
Pixel 3 XL, portrait selfie The iPhone brightens up the colors a bit, though I still like the darker tones of the Pixel photo. Where the Pixel falters though, is with the portrait mode, where it messes up the blur outline around the girl’s hair. The iPhone doesn’t nail it perfectly, but it’s much better than the Pixel 3’s attempt.
Video improvements There are video upgrades, too! The camera can shoot in 4K at 60 frames per second, and it does a good job with stabilization, as you can see in the video above. It delivers smoother shots than the Galaxy Note 10 or the Pixel 3. That’s without mentioning the fun new addition called Slofies, or slow-motion selfies, which I’m thoroughly enjoying.
It brings Apple back into dominance in a highly competitive field.
The camera system on the iPhone 11 Pro Max is powerful and it brings Apple back into dominance in a highly competitive field, but it’s only slightly ahead. Google’s Pixel 4 is around the corner, and it has a strong chance of taking back the crown.
Unlimited power, slick iOS 13 Never once did I feel like the iPhone 11 Pro Max was too slow for a task or game. That’s thanks to Apple’s A13 Bionic processor which purportedly delivers 20% faster CPU and GPU performance over last year’s iPhone XS Max. Launching apps is a snappy affair, as is switching between them, and I played several games on Apple Arcade — ranging from Where Cards Fall to Oceanhorn 2: Knights of the Lost Realm — for an hour, if not longer, and ran into no problems with performance.
Julian Chokkattu/Digital Trends Here are a few benchmark results: AnTuTu 3DBench: 443,735 Geekbench 5 CPU: 1,331 single-core; 3,444 multi-core These are among the highest scores I’ve ever seen on a smartphone, with the only phone performing better being the iPhone 11 Pro. The Note 10 Plus is almost a full 100,000 lower than the iPhone 11 Pro Max’s AnTuTu score. In real-world use, Samsung’s Note 10 Plus is a powerful and fast phone, but that’s an impressive gap all the same. You won’t have problems running…well, just about anything on the iPhone 11 Pro Max.
It’s not perfect, though. Apple should bump the base storage to 128GB instead of 64GB. It’s worse when you think about how there’s no MicroSD card slot, and how Apple still offers just 5GB of free iCloud storage.
Updates come instantly when Apple issues them.
The phone runs iOS 13 , Apple’s latest software version, and it’s excellent. Dark mode makes it look beautiful, especially on the OLED screen, Face ID is faster, swipe typing is finally available natively, and stronger privacy features offer more peace of mind. Check out my in-depth iOS 13 impressions for more.
The best part of owning an iPhone is how you get updates instantly when Apple issues them, and how these updates can keep coming four to five years after a phone came out. The only other phones that come close to that level of software update support are Google’s Pixel phones, but even those won’t be updated for as long as an iPhone.
Stellar battery life Incredible is the word I’d use to describe battery life on the iPhone 11 Pro Max. I’ve yet to see it dip under 30 percent. I’ve used it since 8 a.m. on multiple days and the phone sat at 35 percent at 5 a.m. the next day, leaving me with plenty of juice to keep using it until I got to the office if I didn’t want to charge the phone overnight.
How much you get out of it will depend on your usage. I played games, watched episodes of shows on Netflix, responded to messages and emails, streamed music, snapped pictures — medium use, I’d say — and I frequently arrived home around 6 p.m. with a little under 50 percent remaining in the tank. If I stayed out at night and hit the town, I’d be at around 30 percent at 11 p.m.
Battery life is a full day of comfortable, worry-free use, and easily a day-and-a-half, if not two, if you’re a light user.
Battery life is a full day of comfortable, worry-free use.
In our standard video playback battery test, where we play a 1080p YouTube video with the brightness set to the max over Wi-Fi, the iPhone 11 Pro Max lasted 10 hours and 39 minutes. It’s a respectable score, but phones like the iPhone 11 Pro and the Galaxy Note 10 Plus lasted more than 12 hours. Still, it’s not the best indicator for real-world performance, as I found battery life on the Max to be significantly better than on the Note 10 Plus.
Charging speed has improved because Apple is finally packing an 18W fast charger in the box. It won’t blow the competition away like the Galaxy Note 10 Plus, but it’s significantly better than the three-and-a-half-hour charge time on last year’s iPhone with the included cable. It took a little less than an hour and a half to recharge the iPhone 11 Pro Max from 0 to 100 percent. Wireless charging is available if you want to top up the phone throughout the day with a wireless charging pad at work.
What I would have liked to see is a USB-C port instead of Lightning. Apple has been adding USB-C to its other products, like MacBooks and, most recently, the iPad Pro, for some time. Considering the iPhone now has the “Pro” moniker, it would have been a ripe time to add the port as well. It would have made carrying charging cables a simple affair, as you’d just need one to charge up all your devices. Guess we’ll have to wait until the 2020 iPhone.
Price, availability, and warranty The iPhone 11 Pro Max is $1,100, or $45.79 per month if you opt for a monthly installment plan, and that’s for the base 64GB model. You can also choose the 256GB storage option and the price jumps to $1,249. The 512GB version will set you back $1,449.
Apple offers a standard limited warranty that protects your phone against manufacturing defects for one year from the date of purchase. You can pay more for AppleCare+, which adds two years of coverage for accidental damage and defects.
Our take For big-screen lovers, the iPhone 11 Pro Max is the way to go. It offers excellent battery life, performance, and a class-leading camera system.
Is there a better alternative? You don’t need to spend $1,100 for a smartphone. If you want an iPhone but want to spend less, the iPhone 11 is an excellent alternative that carries many of the same features as the iPhone 11 Pro Max, like the same A13 Bionic processor and iOS 13. Battery life isn’t as long, but still good, and there’s no telephoto lens, but it’s $400 less at $700. If you want a smaller iPhone, but money is no object, go for the 5.8-inch iPhone 11 Pro , which is $1,000.
If you’re open to switching to Android, the Galaxy Note 10 Plus is the iPhone 11 Pro Max’s direct competitor, offering up an excellent screen experience, a triple-camera system, a stylus, and a svelte design. It can charge faster, but battery life isn’t as strong.
Google’s Pixel 4 XL is another strong alternative. Just released, the Pixel 4 XL has great design, a nice display, and a camera that’s nearly as good (but lacking a wide-angle lens). The downside is battery life, which doesn’t match up to the iPhone 11 Pro Max.
Check out our best smartphones guide for more.
How long will it last? Apple’s iPhones last a long time, and this one should last you four to five years, provided you replace the battery in the third year so you can get extra life out of it. Apple provides several years of software updates to its phones — the iPhone 6S can install iOS 13, and it came out in 2015.
You may still want to slap a case on the iPhone 11 Pro Max — it is glass after all — but it does also have an IP68 dust- and water-resistance rating that protects it in 4 meters underwater up to 30 minutes.
Should you buy it? Yes. If you want the best of the best, with a huge screen, get the iPhone 11 Pro Max.
Editors' Recommendations The iPad is going to get an amazing new feature in 2024 It’s finally happening — your iPhone is getting RCS in 2024 The iPhone’s futuristic satellite tech isn’t coming to Android any time soon These 5 iPhone 15 problems are annoying. Here’s how to fix them The best iPhone 15 Pro Max cases in 2023: the 20 best ones Apple Apple Apple iPhone iPhone and iPad Reviews Phone Reviews Product Reviews Mobile Behind the scenes: An Apple Event shot on iPhone Apple surprised many folks when it revealed that Monday's Scary Fast event was shot entirely on an iPhone -- the iPhone 15 Pro Max, to be precise.
Mobile The tablet market features a lot of great options, but Apple’s iPad lineup remains one of the most popular. It regularly places iPads amongst the best tablets and has many different models and sizes to suit many different needs. Apple has recently introduced a new line of processors, and with new tech often comes some great discounts on current tech. There are several Apple iPad deals taking place right now, and we’ve tracked them all down. From entry level iPads to the largest iPad Pro on the market, these are the best iPad deals available.
Apple iPad (2021) — $249, was $329 If you’re in search of a new iPad but want to avoid the price points of Apple’s high end options, the Apple iPad (2021) makes great bang for the buck. It’s a very capable iPad, as it has all-day battery life, the Apple A13 Bionic chip, and an immersive 10.2-inch Retina display. All of this makes the iPad a great device for creating with, for interacting with the digital world with, and for sitting down with for an evening of movie watching. This Wi-Fi-only model comes in Space Gray with 64GB of internal storage, which is typically plenty for most tablet users’ needs. This is not the newest design of the iPad, which means it still has a home button with Touch ID as part of its design.
Mobile iPhone 15 Pro Max Andy Boxall / Digital Trends How do you flex the camera chops of your flagship phone? Use it to shoot the entire launch event for flagship laptops. Or that’s apparently what Apple thinks. The company’s Scary Fast event last night was shot on an iPhone 15 Pro Max, and it’s quite a solid statement to rest the fate of a product reveal that brings in billions of dollars for Apple each quarter.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
