Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Share Wi-Fi Password on iPhone How to Restart iPhone Screen Record on iPhone Back Up an iPhone Clear Cache on iPhone Share Location on iPhone Home Mobile Reviews Apple iPhone 11 review: The iPhone for all Apple's focus on camera brings the iPhone up to speed By Julian Chokkattu Close $699.00 Good price Powerful processor Great camera system Day-long battery life Gorgeous color options Display falls short of competition Fast charging adapter not included Unchanged bezels on the front The iPhone 11 is all the iPhone you need, even with the new iPhone 12 arriving. Sure, the Pro models have an extra zoom lens, slightly better battery life, and nicer screens … but most people don’t need all of that. Save yourself $300 and go for the iPhone 11. It’s still one of the best iPhones and overall best phones you can buy right now.
Thick bezels Low-resolution display Cameras: Double whammy Creature of the night Killer performance and slick iOS 13 The battery lasts a day Price, availability, and warranty Our Take Thick bezels If you were hoping Apple would slim down the bezels on its successor to the iPhone XR , think again. Yes, the design is still a tremendous improvement over phones like the iPhone 8 , but the front of the iPhone 11 is unchanged from 2018. A thick and uniform bezel surrounds the 6.1-inch screen and there’s the same wide notch at the top, carrying the TrueDepth camera and sensors for Face ID.
Compare this to the OnePlus 7 Pro and its bezel-less screen, or the Galaxy Note 10 with its hole-punch camera, and the iPhone 11 looks a bit dated, but not terribly so.
It’s not the perfect size — that’s the 5.8-inch iPhone 11 Pro — but it’s not as unwieldy as the iPhone 11 Pro Max. The scale of the iPhone 11 marks a good middle ground for people who want a big screen but still want to manage the phone in one hand. It can be tricky trying to reach the back button, which is often on the top left corner, and that’s coming from someone with large hands.
Julian Chokkattu/Digital Trends This iPhone feels substantial, and the glossy glass back isn’t as slippery as the matte finish on the Pro models. That said, you’ll want a case.
It’s not as durable as the Pro models because it’s made of aluminum and not stainless steel. It does have an IP68 water resistance rating, so it can survive up to 2 meters underwater for up to 30 minutes.
The best part of the new iPhone? The colors. There are six options and they all look wonderful (although the glass is still prone to fingerprints). My favorite is the green seen here, as well as the purple. Note that the iPhone branding has disappeared on the back, allowing for an even more minimalist look.
The best part of the new iPhone? The colors. There are six options and they all look wonderful.
I’m not as happy with the camera design. The two cameras are on a module that’s raised from the back glass; slide your finger from the rear glass to the edge of the camera module and you can feel how sharp it is. I wish the edge of the camera module blended into the rear glass.
The huge cameras aren’t subtle, but they’re not as off-putting as the triple-camera lens setup on the iPhone 11 Pro and 11 Pro Max. I think if the additional raised module surrounding the lenses didn’t exist, I’d love the look of the iPhone 11. It’s growing on me, but I think the iPhone XR looks better.
Low-resolution display The weakest link is the 6.1-inch screen on the iPhone 11. It’s not an OLED panel like most competitors in this price range, and it has a mere 1,792 × 828 (326 pixels-per-inch, PPI) resolution.
Image used with permission by copyright holder The OnePlus 7 Pro, which costs $20 less, has a 3,120 × 1,440 OLED screen with a 90Hz display, allowing for a smoother experience. Even the $399 Google Pixel 3a has a 2,220 × 1,080 resolution.
Comparing the OnePlus 7 Pro’s screen and the iPhone 11, colors are richer and blacks are darker on the OnePlus, and a tad washed out on the iPhone. Comedian Hasan Minhaj looks flat on the iPhone screen as you can see in the comparison above.
While the screen resolution is low, it’s hard to call that a problem. If you put the iPhone right in front of your eyes, sure, it’s easier to notice the difference. But that’s terrible for your eyes. Don’t do that! I had no trouble watching episodes of The Spy on Netflix, and the screen is bright enough for me to see almost everything clearly even in sunny conditions (it can go up to 625 nits, whereas the iPhone 11 Pro can go up to 800 nits).
Still, the iPhone 11 doesn’t have a screen that matches its price tag. It falls short of the competition. No, it’s not bad , but you can find better at the same price or less.
What about audio? There are stereo speakers for surround sound, and they sound vibrant. They’re not as loud as the speakers on the Samsung Galaxy Note 10 Plus, and they don’t sound as good, but they’re more than enough for gaming and watching movies. There’s still no headphone jack.
Cameras: Double whammy Last year’s iPhone XR had a single lens and wasn’t versatile. That’s changing for the better with the iPhone 11, which now adds a 120-degree ultra-wide-angle lens, allowing you to capture more from a scene. This is a feature you won’t find on Google’s Pixel 4.
But first, let’s talk about the main 12-megapixel sensor, which has an f/1.8 aperture and is the same as the main lens on the iPhone 11 Pro models. There are several improvements across the board, from autofocus that’s three times faster in low light conditions to better Smart HDR for more balanced shots in high-contrast lighting and a new feature called semantic rendering.
Julian Chokkattu/Digital Trends This captures several underexposed photos before you tap the shutter button, and then an overexposed shot afterward. The camera attempts to understand elements of the photo, such as faces, and Smart HDR processes them separately using the frames it captured.
With all of these improvements, the iPhone 11 has the best smartphone camera you can buy. It captures all the right details and some of the most natural colors you’ll see from a smartphone. It helps that the camera interface is so fluid it puts all other smartphone camera apps to shame.
Previous Next 1 4 Julian Chokkattu/Digital Trends Julian Chokkattu/Digital Trends Julian Chokkattu/Digital Trends Julian Chokkattu/Digital Trends Yet the iPhone 11 isn’t a giant leap over the competition, especially compared to the Google Pixel 3.
 Apple is back on top, but only by an inch.
I wish Apple did more with the new ultra-wide-angle camera. There’s just the right amount of distortion for unique photos, but I wish Apple went the extra mile and allowed autofocus. It’s a fixed focus lens, which means you need to be 1 meter away from the subject for it to be in focus. You can’t take close-up shots with it. Most competitors have this flaw as well, but it would have helped make Apple’s ultra-wide stand out.
1.
iPhone 11 ultra-wide-angle lens.
2.
Samsung Galaxy Note 10 Plus ultra-wide-angle lens.
Photo quality from the ultra-wide angle lens is among the best, as you can see when compared to the Samsung Galaxy Note 10 Plus. The latter tends to oversaturate and often looks flat. The iPhone typically seems to pick up a bit more detail.
Creature of the night The star of the iPhone 11’s camera is the new Night mode. It’s not a dedicated night mode like Google’s Night Sight on Pixel phones, but it automatically kicks in when it detects poor lighting conditions. You can turn it off, leave it on the automatic setting, or set it to the maximum long-exposure that the camera deems necessary. That can vary, but the camera can go all the way up to a 28-second exposure (if it’s dark enough and the phone is on a tripod).
Previous Next 1 4 Night Mode off Julian Chokkattu/Digital Trends Night Mode on Julian Chokkattu/Digital Trends Night Mode off Julian Chokkattu/Digital Trends Night Mode on Julian Chokkattu/Digital Trends Most shots need a two- to three-second long exposure. Google’s Night Sight tends to decide for itself on how long the exposure should be on a variety of factors, but I prefer Apple’s approach, as it offers more choice. Night Sight delivers stronger details, but when opting for the maximum exposure on the iPhone, the results are comparable.
What’s different is color. The iPhone 11 tends to maintain natural colors, while the Pixel can miss the mark. The iPhone’s Night Mode also tends to preserve the ambiance of a scene, lighting up certain parts of it, while the Pixel aggressively white balances the photo and brightens up everything. They’re two different approaches, and while sometimes I prefer the results of the Pixel 3, I largely have been enjoying the iPhone’s Night Mode even more.
Previous Next 1 4 iPhone 11 Night Mode Julian Chokkattu/Digital Trends Pixel 3 XL Night Sight Julian Chokkattu/Digital Trends iPhone 11 Night Mode Julian Chokkattu/Digital Trends Pixel 3 XL Night Sight Julian Chokkattu/Digital Trends Apple has been at the back of the pack in low-light photography for some time, so it’s nice to see it race to the top. It is disappointing that Night mode doesn’t work on the selfie camera or on the ultra-wide-angle lens, which can be limiting when shooting at night because the ultra-wide has a narrower aperture than the main lens and it can’t take in as much light. It delivers muddy shots.
There are several improvements to Portrait Mode.
 You can now take portraits of just about anything: pets, people, objects, whatever. On the iPhone XR, which had just a single lens, the camera was only capable of capturing portraits of people. The quality in these portrait photos are significantly better overall compared to last year’s iPhone XS Max , and it does a good job of maintaining the subject’s outline, though errors do turn up occasionally. That rings true with the new High Key Mono Portrait Lighting effect.
Previous Next 1 8 Portrait Mode Julian Chokkattu/Digital Trends iPhone 11 portrait mode Julian Chokkattu/Digital Trends High Key Mono Julian Chokkattu/Digital Trends iPhone 11 portrait mode Julian Chokkattu/Digital Trends Pixel 3 XL portrait mode Julian Chokkattu/Digital Trends Note 10 Plus portrait mode Julian Chokkattu/Digital Trends iPhone XS Max portrait mode Julian Chokkattu/Digital Trends Julian Chokkattu/Digital Trends The selfie camera has been upgraded to 12-megapixels over 7-megapixels on the iPhone XR, and they look better overall especially Portrait Mode selfies. You should know though, that by default selfies shot in portrait orientation will be captured in a cropped, 7-megapixel resolution. You can zoom out to take in more of the background when you want to take a group selfie (this automatically happens when you rotate the camera to landscape).
Video upgrades to the iPhone 11 camera help Apple maintain its dominance in videography. The camera can shoot in 4K at 60 frames per second, and it does a good job with stabilization. I’m thoroughly enjoying Apple’s new Slofies , which capture 120 frames per second slow-motion selfies at 1080p. It’s unusual to see slow motion on the selfie camera, but it’s fun to use.
The iPhone 11 is all about the camera upgrades. They shift Apple back on top. That being said, Google’s Pixel 4 is right around the corner and it means we’re in for a hell of a camera fight.
Killer performance and slick iOS 13 Despite not having “Pro” in its name, you get the same performance on the iPhone 11 as the iPhone 11 Pro, because the entire range is equipped with Apple’s A13 Bionic chipset (though there’s only 4GB of RAM on the iPhone 11).
Apps are quick to launch and scrolling through Twitter and Instagram is smooth. I’ve been playing quite a few games on Apple Arcade , the company’s new subscription-based game service , and titles like Oceanhorn 2: Knights of the Lost Realm and Skate City ran without any issues.
Here are a few benchmark results: AnTuTu 3DBench: 405,950 Geekbench 5 CPU: 1,338 single-core; 3,329 multi-core The AnTuTu result is our highest ever, beating out every Android smartphone running Qualcomm’s Snapdragon 855 processor , the flagship chip of 2019. This is a powerful phone.
Julian Chokkattu/Digital Trends I wish Apple stopped offering the 64GB storage size option and started with 128GB as the default instead. Samsung’s Galaxy S10 range starts with 128GB and has higher storage options from there, and the same rings true for the more affordable OnePlus 7 Pro. It’d be a nice move considering you still only get a meager 5GB of iCloud storage.
On the software side, iOS 13 is wonderful. Dark mode makes everything beautiful and protects my eyes at night, the revamped Photos app is smarter and offers more robust editing tools, Face ID is faster than ever, and I love swipe typing.
 Check out my iOS 13 impressions for more.
The battery lasts a day Apple claims the iPhone 11 lasts an hour more than the iPhone XR, which already had great battery life. That holds up. I ended an average workday with around 45 % left by 5 p.m., 30% by 7:30 p.m, and 15% by 10 p.m. That’s with medium use including playing a few games, taking photos, browsing the web, responding to notifications, and watching a YouTube clip or two.
On a heavy day of use, where I took a ton of photos and videos with the iPhone 11’s camera for more than four hours, the 3,110mAh battery hit 15% by 5 p.m. — phones like the Google Pixel 3 would have long been dead. Most people will be satisfied.
In our standard battery test, where we play a 1080p YouTube video over Wi-Fi with the brightness at max, the iPhone 11 lasted a paltry 4 hours and 54 minutes. But these tests aren’t perfect depictions of real-world battery life results, as the OnePlus 7 Pro lasted 11 hours and 50 minutes in the same test, but struggled to comfortably last a full day of use.
The iPhone 11’s battery will easily last all day in most situations.
Unfortunately, Apple doesn’t include the 18W fast charger in the box. Instead, you’ll find the traditional 5W charger, which will recharge your phone at a snail’s pace — it’ll take more than 3 hours to go from zero to 100. It does support fast charging, but only the iPhone 11 Pro models have the 18W brick in the box.
You’ll need to spend around $50 more to buy the adapter and cable to enable this functionality, but it’s well worth it. The iPhone 11 managed to hit 50% in 30 minutes of charging with the fast charger, and more than 80% after an hour. Meanwhile, with the included cable and adapter it only hit 16% around the 30-minute mark. That falls short of the competition. Apple really should have made it standard.
There’s still wireless charging, so you can sip up power by placing the phone on a wireless charging pad if you want.
Price, availability, and warranty The iPhone 11 is $699 and it’s available from Apple as well as multiple retailers and carriers. You can pay for it in monthly installments with no interest, and if you’re coming from a previous iPhone, you can trade it in to get the price slashed up to $600 depending on the quality of the phone.
Apple offers a standard warranty that covers the phone from manufacturer defects for one year from the date of purchase. You can extend the warranty with AppleCare+ , for a price.
If you’re hoping to find a discount, take a look at some of the best iPhone deals and smartphone deals available for Cyber Monday.
Our Take The iPhone 11 delivers with day-long battery life, excellent performance, and a strong camera that’s more versatile than last year’s iPhone XR, not to mention all the improvements that come with iOS 13. If you don’t want to spend more than $1,000 on a new smartphone, the iPhone 11 is great value.
Is there a better alternative? If you’re sticking to iOS, yes. You can go for either the iPhone 11 Pro or the iPhone 11 Pro Max and they will be better in almost every way. They’re not the best value, however, so don’t feel bad if you just want to stick with the iPhone 11.
Otherwise, the OnePlus 7 Pro is a great alternative at $679. It has great performance, a fantastic display, nice software, though the camera and battery aren’t as good.
Google’s Pixel 4 is now available , and it’s a strong Android alternative. It has a camera system that’s nearly as good at a lower price. However, the Pixel 4 does lag in battery life.
How long will it last? iPhones last a long time because of Apple’s lengthy software support. Expect the iPhone 11 to last you three to four years, if not more. When the battery starts to degrade, you can take it to certified Apple technicians to get it replaced and the phone will feel as good as new.
Should you buy it? Yes. If you’re not constantly on your phone all the time, the iPhone 11 is the phone to buy. If you are, look at the Pro models.
Editors' Recommendations The best iPhone 15 Pro Max screen protectors in 2023 It looks like the iPhone 16 will get a big design upgrade One of our favorite Android phones just got its own iMessage app iPhone update fixes troublesome bug that broke NFC features for some users Shopping at Apple this holiday season? You should know this Apple Apple Apple iPhone iPhone and iPad Reviews Phone Reviews Product Reviews Mobile It’s that time of the year again. On Sunday, November 5, at 2:00 a.m., the majority of people in the U.S. will revert to standard time by setting their clocks behind by an hour. This also means that you get an extra hour of sleep. However, it raises an important question: will your phone automatically change to standard time, or do you need to do it manually? It's a question that applies regardless of which phone you have. Whether you're rocking an iPhone 15 Pro, a Samsung Galaxy S23 Ultra, or any other smartphone, it's important to know whether or not you need to change it for the new time.
Mobile Apple iPhone 15 Plus (left) and Apple iPhone 15 Pro Max Andy Boxall / Digital Trends Apple launched the iPhone 15 lineup in September, and it seems to have been a big hit among the public. The standard iPhone 15 is one of the biggest upgrades for the regular model in quite some time, and the iPhone 15 Pro Max now has one of the best camera systems available on a smartphone today.
Mobile It’s no surprise that the iPhone 15 Pro Max is Apple’s most feature-packed smartphone to date. It is important to note that even though the iPhone 15 Pro Max is both durable and lightweight, with its 6.7-inch screen and titanium casing, it can still get damaged during an accident and crack or shatter. To keep your newest iPhone in good condition, it is highly recommended that you invest in one or two protective cases to keep it safe and secure.
Fortunately, we have compiled a list of the 20 best iPhone 15 Pro Max cases that you can purchase right now. Take a look below; we are confident that you will find something that meets your needs.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
