Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Phones Best Tablets Tesla Phone Download Android 14 Best Android Phones Home Mobile Reviews Logitech Combo Touch review: The default choice By Matthew S. Smith Close $150.00 Excellent protection Keyboard feels superb Good touchpad Affordable price Bulky and heavy The iPad is now a laptop. Whether it’s a good alternative is up for debate, but ditching an old-school clamshell for the world’s best tablet is now possible with the right accessory. Apple’s own Magic Keyboard is a great choice if you own an iPad Pro of recent vintage. If you want a full keyboard and touchpad for another iPad model, though, you must look elsewhere.
Function over form The keyboard is way better than you’d think An affordable laptop alternative? Our Take Logitech’s Combo Touch is sure to be at the top of your list. It’s the only keyboard case with touchpad that supports the iPad Pro 10.5-inch, the iPad Air, and the 7 th -gen iPad. It’s also reasonably priced at $150. That undercuts most third-party iPad keyboards with touchpad, such as the $200 Brydge Pro+.
As a result, the Logitech Combo Touch will become the default choice for some iPad owners — so it’s a good thing it’s excellent.
Function over form Logitech’s Combo Touch doesn’t fit the mold you’d expect from an Apple accessory. Third-party companies designing products that work with Apple’s popular devices often try to mimic Apple’s look. Not here. Logitech instead offers a chunky, playful case that prioritizes ease of use. This falls in line with other recent Apple accessories from Logitech, like the Crayon stylus and Pebble i345 mouse.
I tested the Logitech Combo Touch with my iPad Pro 10.5-inch.
 This model also fits the third-generation iPad Air (iPad 7 th -gen owners need to buy a version specific for their device, but it differs only slightly in thickness).
You’d have to straight-up shank the thing to cause any damage.
Though I didn’t toss my iPad around to see if it survived, I feel confident with the Combo Touch on my iPad. This thing is a thicc boi, providing plenty of cushion on every side, and a significant raised lip around the iPad’s display. Closed, with the keyboard cover protecting the display, you’d have to straight-up shank the thing to cause any damage.
It has a grippy fabric surface on the front and rear of the iPad that keeps the tablet from leaping out of your hand.
Matthew S. Smith / Digital Trends The trade-off for this protection is that it bumps up the weight. The Logitech Combo Touch weighs 21 ounces in total. That’s over a pound! Attached to my iPad Pro 10.5-inch, it brought the device’s total weight to 29 ounces without the keyboard cover attached. With it, the full unit is a hefty 40 ounces. That’s 2.5 pounds.
I don’t think the weight is an issue for travel. My iPad is still light with the Combo Touch attached, and still fits in any backpack or messenger bag. The real issue is tablet use, as this case almost doubles my iPad’s weight and made it more tiring to use while holding it.
The Combo Touch didn’t interfere with buttons or ports — a surprise, given its size. I had no trouble accessing my iPad’s lightning jack or headphone jack, and the volume buttons never failed to work. You might have trouble if you have a device with a particularly large connector — I’ve seen some beefy 3.5mm jacks on high-end headphones — but none of the devices I own had an issue.
As a case, the Combo Touch is mixed. The bulk can be annoying, but its not without advantages, which is why I’ve removed my iPad Pro from the case only once (and soon returned it). The Combo Touch case provides great protection and makes the iPad Pro easier to grip firmly with one or both hands.
The keyboard is way better than you’d think I wasn’t sure what to expect from the Combo Touch’s keyboard. I’ve reviewed laptops long enough to remember the netbook era , and those tiny PCs left a distinctly sour impression on my cramped hands. While the Combo Touch adds bulk, the total package is a tad smaller than most netbooks I used.
Surprisingly, the Combo Touch is comfortable. Logitech only has a hair more than 10 inches of iPad to work with, but the company takes advantage of every inch with an edge-to-edge key layout. There’s no wasted space here. The keyboard is backlit, with power drawn from the iPad through the Smart Connector.
Matthew S. Smith / Digital Trends A spacious layout is helped along by clicky keys that feel great. I’d rather use the Combo Touch than the butterfly-switch keyboard found on older MacBooks.
 In short, don’t worry about the keyboard. You won’t have a problem with it.
The touchpad isn’t as impressive, though it will be familiar if you own, or have ever used, a budget laptop. There’s enough room for comfortable use and the surface is responsive. It’s plastic, though, so it lacks the silky smooth feel you’ll find on Apple’s Magic Keyboard and Apple’s MacBook laptops.
A kickstand is built into the case portion of the Combo Touch, so it’s available even if the keyboard isn’t attached. Broad and sturdy, the kickstand did an admirable job of keeping my iPad settled on my lap. I was never worried the iPad might slide off or flip backwards.
It’s worth mentioning that iPadOS does its job to support the keyboard and the touchpad. You’ll find a row of function keys that provide easy access to various iPad features, and the touchpad can be used to perform multitouch gestures you’d otherwise perform on the iPad’s touchscreen. Logitech’s Combo Touch is a third-party accessory, but the integration between it and the iPad feels first-rate.
There’s even a loop to store your Apple Pencil or Logitech Crayon stylus, though I don’t own either.
An affordable laptop alternative? The keyboard and touchpad on the Logitech Combo Touch hold up to hours of use. And with the recent addition of full cursor support to iPadOS, you can accomplish many tasks once reserved for laptops. Does that mean you can buy this case for your current iPad and ditch your laptop entirely? Maybe. It’s certainly possible, but the answer will be personal, and depends on your willingness to change your workflow.
Can buy this case for your current iPad and ditch you laptop entirely? Maybe.
There are advantages to the iPad with Combo Touch. The display is smaller than most laptops, but its bright, attractive, and you can touch it. You can easily switch between using the iPad as a tablet or a laptop, depending on the task. Travel is a cinch, whether you’re walking 5 miles or flying 500.
There’s also not much disadvantage to the iOS ecosystem – on the contrary, many apps now feel faster and smoother than their PC or Mac counterparts. The iPad is also hands-down better than any budget laptop when it comes to entertainment, thanks to its display and reasonably capable GPU.
Matthew S. Smith / Digital Trends It’s not all good news. Despite its advantages, and new multitasking features, iPadOS isn’t great in situations where you need to open multiple apps and work with them side by side or flip between them frequently. Since iPad apps are touch-first, they don’t make the most efficient use of the iPad’s limited display space.
There are even some lingering problems in web-based apps, which can be fussy on iPad despite Safari’s switch away from serving up mobile versions of websites by default. Web-based WordPress is still a sore point. The app is fine, but it doesn’t work with every implementation of WordPress.
Here’s what I can say for sure. An iPad, iPad Air, or iPad Pro 10.5-inch becomes a perfectly usable laptop replacement when paired with the combo touch. Whether you’ll prefer it is a more personal decision, but it can absolutely work.
Our Take The Logitech Combo Touch is a great accessory, and a bargain at $150. If you own an iPad compatible with this case, stop your search. This is the iPad keyboard case to buy.
Is there a better alternative? Apple’s Magic Keyboard is better overall, with a more professional and mature design, but it’s only available for the latest iPad Pro models (which the Combo Touch doesn’t support) and is significantly more expensive.
The Apple Smart Keyboard is priced at $160 and offers a very slim keyboard that adds less bulk. It was designed prior to iPadOS mouse support, however, so it lacks a touchpad. Logitech’s Combo Touch easily beats it.
Brydge makes a variety of alternatives, but it doesn’t have a keyboard case with touchpad for iPad (7 th -Gen), iPad Air, or iPad Pro 10.5-inch. Again, this makes the Combo Touch a better choice.
Want more options? Check out our favorite iPad keyboard cases.
How long will it last? The Logitech Combo Touch will last many years. It doesn’t have a built-in battery that might degrade over time, and its durable construction easily handles rough use. The only threat is water, as the Combo Touch isn’t rated for water resistance.
Should you buy it? Yes. The Logitech Combo Touch is an excellent keyboard case that should be your go-to pick for the iPad models it supports.
Buy at Logitech Editors' Recommendations The iPad is going to get an amazing new feature in 2024 Best iPad deals: Save on 10.2-inch iPad, iPad Pro, and more Apple may launch new iPads soon, and you should be excited The best iPads in 2023: the 5 best ones you should buy Best refurbished iPad deals: Get an iPad with warranty for $116 Apple Apple Apple iPad iPhone and iPad Reviews Product Reviews Tablet Reviews Mobile At the Worldwide Developers Conference (WWDC 2023), Apple unveiled the latest version of iPadOS — iPadOS 17, equipped with new features and improvements. The update brings new ways of customizing the lock screen, interacting with widgets, and working on PDFs in the Notes app. Additionally, the Health app is now available on iPads for the first time.
The iPadOS 17 update, while perhaps featuring fewer new or updated features than previous versions, still brings several noteworthy changes and improvements. For instance, the Messages app has received some updates, as has FaceTime. Additionally, Safari and Password have seen some tweaks and improvements. In addition to these changes, the update includes new sticker packs, which can add fun and creativity to your conversations. While it may not be the most extensive update, iPadOS 17 still brings valuable and enjoyable improvements.
Mobile Apple appears set to overhaul the iPad Pro, though the refreshed tablet seems unlikely to hit the market until next year.
The news appeared on Sunday courtesy of Bloomberg’s Mark Gurman, who often calls it right with Apple-related news.
Computing Pretty much all Apple products are some of the best-in-class for their respective type of tech. However, you do pay for the privilege with many devices like iPads or MacBooks costing a little more than non-Apple variants. That's why it's so useful to find great Apple deals like the ones below. We've picked out some of the best ways to save substantially on highly sought after Apple products from accessories to AirPods and more. Take a look below at some of our favorite Apple deals right now.
AirTags (4-pack) -- $89, was $99 If you worry about misplacing items, you need Apple AirTags. With a simple one-tap setup, your iPhone or iPad is instantly connected to an AirTag so that you can always use find items via the Find My app. That could be your car keys, your bag, or anything else that you can fit or slip an AirTag into. If you misplace something, you can simply put the AirTag into Lost Mode to be notified when it's detected in the Find My network helping you pin it down. You can also play a sound through the built-in speaker if you know it's nearby but you're not sure if it's worth moving the couch to find it.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
