Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Share Wi-Fi Password on iPhone How to Restart iPhone Screen Record on iPhone Back Up an iPhone Clear Cache on iPhone Share Location on iPhone Home Mobile Reviews Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Nomad Modern Leather iPhone 14 case review: my new favorite By Joe Maring Close $49.95 Two leather options Horween patinas beautifully Excellent drop protection MagSafe-compatible Slightly expensive The iPhone 14 Pro Max has been my daily driver since it launched in September — and I’ve loved every second with it. From the always-on screen and Dynamic Island to the top-notch camera system, it’s a tough phone to dislike. But I haven’t been using the iPhone 14 Pro Max on its own. Shortly after I wrapped up my review, I quickly threw it in a Nomad case. And I haven’t looked back.
Nomad iPhone 14 leather case design and patina Nomad iPhone 14 leather case durability and MagSafe Nomad iPhone 14 leather case price and availability Nomad’s leather game for iPhone cases is unmatched Specifically, I’m talking about Nomad’s Modern Leather Case. Leather cases are often my go-to for any smartphone , and my iPhone 13 Pro from last year lived in Apple’s official leather case. But this year, I decided to go with a Nomad option, and it’s been a decision I couldn’t be happier with.
One of my favorite Samsung features is coming to OnePlus phones It’s finally happening — your iPhone is getting RCS in 2024 The iPhone’s futuristic satellite tech isn’t coming to Android any time soon Nomad iPhone 14 leather case design and patina Nomad’s Horween Leather (from left) and Leather case Joe Maring / Digital Trends Nomad has two flavors of its Modern Leather Case to choose from: Leather and Horween Leather. The former is a cheaper option Nomad created with the Danish leather tannery Ecoo. It’s real leather, but it uses computer-controlled tanning and has a more pristine finish. Horween Leather, on the other hand, is traditionally handmade and has a more natural appearance that’s not quite as perfect , but is much more natural-looking.
It’s the Horween Leather case you see on my iPhone 14 Pro Max in the Rustic Brown color. These photos were taken after daily use of the case for a little over a month, and as you can clearly see, the patina is in full force.
What a new Nomad Horween Leather case looks like Nomad Although I forgot to snap a photo of the case as soon as I got it, Nomad’s above picture is an accurate representation of what the Horween leather case looks like out of the box. There are very subtle natural features throughout if you look closely, but for the most part, it’s a clean and well-presented piece of leather.
It’s really well done, but fast-forward to over a month of regular use, and the case becomes even more beautiful.
Previous Next 1 4 Nomad leather patina after 1 month Joe Maring / Digital Trends Nomad leather patina after 1 month Joe Maring / Digital Trends Nomad leather patina after 1 month Joe Maring / Digital Trends Nomad leather patina after 1 month Joe Maring / Digital Trends You see visible signs of wear and tear everywhere you look on my case. The leather is noticeably darker, there are visible scuff marks all along the edges, and a myriad of scratches/indents across the entirety of the case.
The leather from Ecco doesn’t patina nearly as quickly and retains its out-of-the-box appearance longer. If you prefer that, it’s great that Nomad has that option available! But I want my leather case to wear its history on its sleeve, and the Horween finish most certainly achieves that.
Nomad iPhone 14 leather case durability and MagSafe Joe Maring / Digital Trends Beyond the good leather looks, I’ve also been really impressed with the durability of Nomad’s case. I’ve dropped my iPhone numerous times while inside the case — onto the carpet floors in my living room, the hardwood in my kitchen, and the asphalt of a parking lot.
This is thanks to the TPE bumper that wraps around Nomad’s leather case and offers up to 10 feet of drop protection. Initially, I was apprehensive about the TPE (aka rubber) frame. Coming from the all- leather Apple case last year, having a portion made out of TPE seemed like a step down. But in practice, I’ve been quite thankful for it — largely because it absorbs the impact of a fall much more gracefully. The leather on my Apple case last year started peeling in one corner after a particularly nasty fall. Even after some big drops with my iPhone 14, I don’t have any such issues with the Nomad case.
Also present on the Nomad’s Modern Leather Case is MagSafe support. MagSafe is included by default for both leather finishes, and it works exactly as you’d expect. I’ve had zero issues attaching Apple’s Leather Wallet with MagSafe or its MagSafe Charger.
MagSafe accessories snap on confidently and stay there until you’re ready to pop them off.
Nomad iPhone 14 leather case price and availability You can buy the Modern Leather Case from Nomad’s website right now. The Leather style costs $50 and is available in black, brown, English tan, and natural; the Horween Leather option costs $70 and comes in black and rustic brown. And just in time for Black Friday, you can get the Modern Leather Case for 25% off from November 18 thru November 29 — no promo code needed. Simply head to Nomad’s website, add a case to your cart, and save some cash.
No matter which version you choose, you can get the Modern Leather Case for the iPhone 14 , iPhone 14 Plus , iPhone 14 Pro , and iPhone 14 Pro Max.
Nomad’s leather game for iPhone cases is unmatched Joe Maring / Digital Trends There’s not much more to say about Nomad’s leather case for the iPhone 14. It looks incredible, gets better with age, and does so without sacrificing durability. And if you opt for the basic Leather finish, Nomad’s case costs $10 less than Apple’s official one — while the Horween Leather is $10 more expensive.
So, is it worth it? I’d say absolutely it is. While I wasn’t immediately sold on the TPE bumper, it didn’t take long for me to convert and appreciate the added ruggedness it provides. I also think splurging for the Horween Leather is 100% the right call. It looks stunning, the patina finish is top of its class, and it still has a glorious leather smell that ties the whole package together.
There are dozens of faux leather cases you can buy for much less, but if you have the money and want something just as premium as the iPhone 14/14 Pro in your pocket, the Nomad Modern Leather Case is easily one of the best iPhone 14 cases you can buy — and very much deserves your dollars.
Editors' Recommendations The iPad is going to get an amazing new feature in 2024 It looks like the iPhone 16 will get a big design upgrade One of our favorite Android phones just got its own iMessage app iPhone update fixes troublesome bug that broke NFC features for some users Will my phone change for daylight saving time automatically? Apple Apple iPhone iPhone and iPad Reviews Mobile Apple iPhone 15 Plus (left) and Apple iPhone 15 Pro Max Andy Boxall / Digital Trends Apple launched the iPhone 15 lineup in September, and it seems to have been a big hit among the public. The standard iPhone 15 is one of the biggest upgrades for the regular model in quite some time, and the iPhone 15 Pro Max now has one of the best camera systems available on a smartphone today.
Mobile It’s no surprise that the iPhone 15 Pro Max is Apple’s most feature-packed smartphone to date. It is important to note that even though the iPhone 15 Pro Max is both durable and lightweight, with its 6.7-inch screen and titanium casing, it can still get damaged during an accident and crack or shatter. To keep your newest iPhone in good condition, it is highly recommended that you invest in one or two protective cases to keep it safe and secure.
Fortunately, we have compiled a list of the 20 best iPhone 15 Pro Max cases that you can purchase right now. Take a look below; we are confident that you will find something that meets your needs.
Mobile Behind the scenes: An Apple Event shot on iPhone Apple surprised many folks when it revealed that Monday's Scary Fast event was shot entirely on an iPhone -- the iPhone 15 Pro Max, to be precise.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
