Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Acer Chromebook Vero 514 Review Chromebook vs Laptop Screenshot on a Chromebook Reset a Chromebook Best Chromebooks Chromebook Problems Split Screen on a Chromebook Home Computing Products Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? The best Chromebooks for 2023 By Mark Coppock and Tyler Lacoma Close Although they've caught some flak over the years, Chromebooks provide a lightweight OS that Windows and Mac can't touch, offering an incredibly convenient and functional experience with much lower system requirements. We've reviewed hundreds of the best laptops over the years, testing for important qualities like performance, battery life, and display quality. And we've found that Chromebooks consistently excel at performance and reliability. You can find Chromebooks from Google, HP, Lenovo, Acer, and many others, and we've dug through them to find the best Chromebooks on the market.
The Chromebook laptops we've assembled here are something special. They offer solid performance, excellent functionality, and enough diversity to handle just about any need. Read on to see which models you should consider and maybe even acquire for yourself.
Save on everything from laptops and tablets, to coffee makers and air purifiers, and a whole host of Apple tech like iPad, Apple Watch and even the latest M3 MacBooks, as well as smart home essentials like the Amazon Echo and smart bulbs.
Mark Coppock/Digital Trends / Mark Coppock/Digital Trends HP Dragonfly Pro Chromebook The most innovative and feature-packed Chromebook Extremely fast ChromeOS performance Excellent, bright display Good keyboard and superior haptic touchpad Solid build quality Convenient live support Expensive Below average battery life Chromebooks haven't historically kept up with Windows and macOS laptops in terms of overall innovations and features. But HP set out to change all that with the Dragonfly Pro Chromebook, an expensive machine that serves as the new standard bearer for the platform.
First, it's well-equipped with Intel 12th-gen CPUs and 16GB of RAM, a lot of memory and power for the lightweight Chrome OS that makes it one of the fastest Chromebooks ever. It's built as well as any premium laptop, and it enjoys an impressive 14.0-inch 16:10 display at a high 2560 x 1600 resolution.
But then toss in one of the first haptic touchpads on a Chromebook and you're talking real innovation, with extra features that make the haptic engine even more valuable. The display is touch- and pen-enabled, and HP included a fingerprint reader that's also unusual for Chromebooks. The keyboard even has RGB lighting. The machine supports Chrome OS Enterprise, making it a secure and manageable choice for enterprises, and there's live 24/7 support available directly from the machine for small business users and consumers. Taking everything into consideration, the Dragonfly Pro Chromebook is the best Chrome OS laptop you can buy today.
Mark Coppock / Digital Trends Acer Chromebook Spin 714 Best 2-in-1 Chromebook Very good performance Evo certification Thunderbolt 4 support Conservative good looks Good touchpad Excellent 3:2 display Battery life took a step backward Chassis could feel a little sturdier Keyboard wasn't as crisp as some If you're looking for a 2-in-1 Chromebook that's also powerful, you need the Acer Chromebook Spin 714. We reviewed the previous model, and the new version just ups the ante. It's also not an overly expensive Chromebook, and it's worth every penny.
An all-aluminum chassis reaches near premium laptop levels in terms of build quality, reminding you that you've bought something classy. Impressively, it has Thunderbolt 4 support which you don't normally see on Chromebooks along with the usual selection of USB ports, a full-size HDMI port, and 3.5mm audio jack. It's powered by Intel 12th-gen CPUs with plenty of RAM and storage, making it a very fast Chromebook.
The display is a 16:10 aspect ratio with a resolution of 1920 x 1200, providing sharp text and images. Acer added an active pen that has its own silo, an improvement from the previous model. Don't count on it being an ideal display for working outdoors under a bright sun but for everything else, it's good quality with colors that seem natural and not oversaturated. The downside? Speaker quality is a little weak for listening to music but it's adequate.
Mark Coppock/Digital Trends / Digital Trends Lenovo Chromebook Duet 3 A highly affordable Chromebook Good enough productivity performance Excellent battery life Surprisingly good display Folio kickstand and keyboard included Strong value Keyboard is too cramped Limited to Wi-Fi 5 The Lenovo's Duet 3 is a detachable tablet Chromebook for not a lot of money. That's precisely why Mark Coppock mentioned it was "$300 well spent" in his review. It got high marks for decent productivity performance, excellent battery life, a surprisingly good display, and the folio kickstand and keyboard it comes with — all of it makes for a very strong value. If you're a student, or on a budget, pay attention to that, because it means your money goes further here.
Inside the unit is a Qualcomm Snapdragon 7c Gen 2 processor and 4GB of system memory, which is reasonable given the price. The 64GB of eMMC flash storage offers space to store photos, documents, and offline files, but Chromebooks also benefit from Google's cloud storage solution and Google Drive.
With up to 12 hours on a single charge, you have plenty of power and support to get work done, do some studying, listen to music, watch some media, or do whatever else you want to do on the go. You also get WiFi 5, Bluetooth 5.1, a 5MP user-facing camera for video calls, and an 8MP "world" or rear-facing camera for high-quality shots. Overall, it's a great little device.
Mark Coppock / Digital Trends Lenovo IdeaPad Duet 5 Best OLED Chromebook Acceptable productivity performance Very long battery life Excellent display Solid build quality Affordable Display is in the old-school 16:9 aspect ratio Limited to Wi-Fi 5 Kickstand add-on is inconvenient Lenovo's Duet 5 is a Chromebook tablet with an OLED display, one of the first and also one of the most inexpensive. The beautiful 13.3-inch beautiful OLED display is definitely the tablet's highlight, providing the usual excellent colors and deep contrast that only OLED can provide. The tablet's portability pairs nicely with an impressive degree of power, thanks to the Qualcomm Snapdragon SC7180 octa-core processor and 8GB of system memory.
The 128GB of eMMC flash storage offers plenty of space to store photos, documents, and offline files when you need them. The Duet 5 has WiFi 6 onboard for faster, more stable wireless connections, but also offers wired connectivity too when you're near an Ethernet port.
The Lenovo Duet 5 offers acceptable productivity performance, long battery life, excellent display, and solid build quality. It also offers surprisingly good build quality for the price, along with an included keyboard that's comfortable and offers a usable touchpad. Overall, it's one of the better Chromebook bargains.
Aaron Leong Acer Chromebook 516 GE Best Cloud Gaming Chromebook Performance and endurance Great display Good price for the specs Well-built Play AAA games without your lap turning into lava Gaming-related bugs and crashes No touchscreen Could use customizable keys It's a bit strange seeing a Chromebook that's branded for gaming, especially since that's not what their core purpose is. However, Acer certainly pulled it off here. You can play AAA games without your lap turning into lava because the system is overheating. That's possible thanks to all of the power under the hood. Cloud gaming via GeForce Now or Xbox Cloud Beta is the way to go, but this system is fully capable of that and more. Chromebooks also have access to Google Play and this thing will certainly handle any Android-viable games you throw at it.
It has an Intel Core i5 processor, running at a base clock speed of 1.7GHz, paired with 8GB of energy-efficient LPDDR4 system memory — expandable up to 16GB. Games, movies, and streaming media look fantastic on the 16-inch TFT LCD at a WQXGA resolution (2560 by 1600), with a brightness rating of 350 nits. The 256GB NVMe solid-state drive is faster and larger than what you get with most comparable systems.
Our review clearly lays out the details of using the system, especially for cloud gaming. It's also praised for being well-constructed with a durable chassis, has excellent specs for the price, and delivers great performance and endurance — battery life included.
Editors' Recommendations Black Friday laptop deal drops this Lenovo Chromebook to $149 Best Black Friday gaming laptop deals: Cheapest prices today Best Chromebook Black Friday deals on HP, Lenovo, and more 11 Best Buy Black Friday laptop deals you can’t afford to miss today Best Dell XPS Black Friday deals on XPS 13, XPS 15, and XPS 17 Best Products Chromebooks Google Chrome Laptops Computing Black Friday deals are a great place to check for a new laptop. Amazon has its fair share of them, on every kind of machine from gaming laptops to Chromebooks. We've picked out our favorites below and categorized them. All of these deals are available right now, even though Black Friday is still a ways away. Make sure to check back for new Black Friday laptop deals before the shopping holiday starts, including Black Friday gaming laptop deals if you want to play on the go.
Best Amazon Black Friday laptop deals If you're looking for a general-purpose laptop, this is the category for you. Amazon has discounted computers from some of our favorite brands, like HP and Acer. These laptops will vary in power and size. If you're looking for something with expensive components, check the gaming laptops below. If power isn't so important, but the price is, check out Chromebook deals under this or Black Friday HP laptop deals.
Computing Even if your router is only four or five years old, it might be time for an upgrade, given the recent advances in router tech, such as Wi-Fi 6, which has become much more prominent. The same also applies to mesh routers, which have more advanced technology that can handle multiple connected devices, such as smart lights, home security systems, phones, and so forth. Of course, you don't have to pay a lot of money to grab yourself a new router, and there are even some great Black Friday deals you can take advantage of that will save you a little bit of extra cash. We've collected some of our favorite deals on routers below, but be sure to check back regularly as we update with newer and better deals.
Best Router Black Friday Deals Routers are a great option if you don't have a large home or need to cover a lot of square footage, and putting them near you means that you get much better speeds and lower latency when connecting through Wi-Fi. Of course, that may not always be an option, so it's important to know what sort of capacity and speeds routers can do. Most routers will have an "AX" followed by a set of numbers that dictates the maximum speed it can reach, and the rule of thumb is generally that this maximum speed only applies when you're really close to the router, so the further out you go, the less speed you'll get. It's not perfect, but generally more powerful routers that can hit higher speeds will be able to connect at higher speeds further away, although its always best to check the actual real-world performance of a router before taking the plunge.
Computing If you're planning to get a new gaming laptop or other gaming accessories, you should check out the Black Friday deals on Razer products. It's one of the most popular brands among gamers because of its high-performance and stylish devices, and for the shopping holiday, you can get them with huge discounts. You're going to have to hurry with your chosen purchases once you've decided what to buy though, because stocks for some of these bargains may already be running low. If you're not set on Razer, be sure to shop the rest of Black Friday laptop deals and Black Friday gaming laptop deals to compare prices.
Best Razer gaming laptop Black Friday deals Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
