Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Phones Best Tablets Tesla Phone Download Android 14 Best Android Phones Home Mobile News This new MediaTek chip is great news for Android phones By Nadeem Sarwar Close MediaTek is adding a new mobile SoC (system on chip) to its portfolio – the Dimensity 9200+ – which is going to appear inside Android phones slated for market release later this month.
A slightly upgraded version of the Dimensity 9200 , which has appeared inside high-end Android phones like the Vivo X90 , the Dimensity 9200+ appears to be a slightly binned version to serve an added dash of performance grunt.
MediaTek This one goes squarely against Qualcomm’s Snapdragon 8+ Gen 1 and Snapdragon 8 Gen 2 processors. The prime core on MediaTek’s latest offering is an Arm Cortex-X3 unit clocked at 3.35 GHz, compared to the 3.05 GHz performance core on the standard Dimensity 9200. Likewise, the triple cluster of Arm Cortex A-715 cores on the Dimensity 9200+ tick at 3.0 GHz, while its predecessor used the same core cluster but peaked at 2.85 GHz.
MediaTek has also given the same treatment to the efficiency cores on the Dimensity 9200+, picking a batch of four Arm Cortex-A510 cores with a peak frequency of 2.0 GHz, a slight boost compared to the quad cluster of the same cores operating at 1.8 GHz on the Dimensity 9200 SoC. The chipmaker is also touting a 17% performance boost for the Arm Immortalis G715 GPU on its new mobile processor.
MediaTek just made Wi-Fi 7 a lot more exciting MediaTek’s new chip just raised the bar for Android phones Motorola just launched a new Android phone to take on the Pixel 8 The rest of the package remains identical from a hardware perspective, but MediaTek claims to have made some software-side optimizations that allow the Dimensity 9200+ to deliver up to 36% higher battery efficiency. The in-house HyperEngine 6.0 tech promises up to 12% gains while playing games, alongside a handful of other tricks like hardware-based ray-tracing for a more accurate depiction of shadows and reflections, reduction in motion blurring, high frame stability, and lower latency when connected to a Bluetooth audio device.
Notably, MediaTek also parades support for Wi-Fi 7 (up to 6.5Gbps data rate) and claims up to 70% higher efficiency while also delivering 46% lower latency on wireless connection compared to rivals. For audiophiles, the chipmaker promises studio-grade wireless music listening experience with 24-bit /192KHz output rate support. The connectivity suite includes Bluetooth v5.3 and mmWave 5G with dual-SIM dual-activity (DSDS) support.
Phones powered by MediaTek’s newest chip can capture 4K videos at up to 60 fps frame rate, which is fairly standard, alongside 8K 30 fps support. The Dimensity 9200+ SoC can also drive screens with up to 240Hz refresh rate and a peak WQHD resolution. Rumors suggest that the Neo 8 Pro by Vivo sub-brand iQoo and a ROG Phone 7 trim by Asus might be the first phones to serve MediaTek’s latest chip.
Editors' Recommendations This new MediaTek chip is about to bring 5G to a lot more devices I’m anxious and excited about this bonkers, industry-changing phone chip Don’t update your Pixel phone — a new Android update might break it I tried a lifesaving gadget that’s going to transform your phone This is one of the most important new Android phones of 2023 Tech News Mobile I try a lot of smartphones, and I like it when one gives me a good feeling the moment I get it out of the box and start using it. The Oppo Reno 10 managed to do exactly that, with its unusual camera module design, curved screen, and sparkly, yet modern color scheme.
But after playing with the software and taking it out to snap some photos, have I continued to warm to the Reno 10? Out taking photos with the Reno 10 Mobile You may have already tried a bunch of generative AI apps on your phone. OpenAI’s ChatGPT or HeyPi are some examples of chatty AI apps, while the likes of Runway ML will let you create AI-generated videos right on your phone.
But so far, almost every generative AI app has relied on cloud-based computing, which means all the magical AI processing happens in the cloud, just the way Xbox kits do the heavy lifting at Microsoft server centers when you stream a console game on your phone or tablet.
Mobile Honor isn’t happy with Samsung taking all the mid-range smartphone glory with the excellent Galaxy A54. As such, it has launched the Honor 90 to see if it can tempt you away from Samsung's colorful and capable device. The Honor 90 matches the Galaxy A54’s price, but what about its specifications? Honor has highlighted the screen technology as a reason to buy, and it certainly has something we haven't seen before. It’s a 6.7-inch, 2664 x 1200 pixel resolution OLED with a quad-curve shape, meaning it flows down into the chassis for comfort and style. The panel uses 3840Hz Pulse Width Modulation (PWM) dimming to minimize flicker at low brightness, and it's the first time we've seen this level of PWM dimming on any smartphone. Other phones have 1920Hz or 2160Hz PWM dimming (such as the Realme 11 Pro+) at the most. The technology should also help reduce eye fatigue when using the screen for a long time. The screen has a 120Hz refresh rate, HDR10+ certification, and a peak brightness of 1,600 nits.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
