Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Phones Best Tablets Tesla Phone Download Android 14 Best Android Phones Home Mobile Features What are the benefits of 5G? How it helps you today (and tomorrow) By Jesse Hollington Close With all the hype surrounding 5G technology, it’s sometimes hard to sort out the promise of what 5G will someday become from the reality of what it is today.
The state of 5G in 2022 Better connectivity Lower latency 5G in the home The 5G vision for tomorrow There’s no doubt that 5G promises to revolutionize the way we communicate. It offers the high speeds and low latency that were once the exclusive domain of optical fiber broadband along with the ability to deliver ubiquitous connectivity to many more devices.
Dish Wireless It all sounds pretty great, but if you’ve been underwhelmed by your own experience with 5G, you’re not alone.
 The new wireless technology has gotten off to a pretty rocky start.
 This has especially been true in the U.S., where carriers have been forced to share the airwaves with older 4G/LTE technology, wrangle with the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) and aviation industry , and juggle an assortment of low-band , midband , and high-band mmWave spectrum to make it all fit together.
Until recently, the only benefit many people saw from being on a 5G network was the warm and fuzzy feeling of seeing the letters “5G” on their phone’s status bar. However, unless you were fortunate enough to be among the 1% of folks who lived or worked within range of a mmWave transceiver , you wouldn’t have noticed much improvement over your 4G/LTE service.
Have an Android phone? You can get unlimited 5G service for free T-Mobile’s huge lead in 5G speeds isn’t going anywhere Netgear’s new M6 Pro router lets you use fast 5G anywhere you go The state of 5G in 2022 The good news is things is finally changing for the better. As AT&T and Verizon roll out new C-band spectrum on their 5G+ and 5G Ultra Wideband networks, and T-Mobile expands its midband Ultra Capacity 5G network, customers are finally starting to see significant speed increases on their carrier’s 5G services.
However, there’s much more to 5G than just speed. Today’s 5G networks offer tangible improvements you may not even be aware of, as so many of the benefits of 5G work behind the scenes to improve your overall experience. After all, how fast does your smartphone really need to be? It’s fun to run speed tests and see high numbers, but in typical everyday use, most folks don’t need the fastest speeds that 5G offers.
What people do need, though, is connectivity , and 5G will make sure that you’re getting the signal you need much more often.
Better connectivity Anybody who has tried to get decent cellular service at a crowded concert or sports event knows that it can often be a challenge. Thousands of mobile phones competing for the same cellular service can overwhelm even the best 4G/LTE networks. Checking Facebook or Instagram begins to feel like slogging through tar, outbound calls take longer to connect or fail entirely, and incoming calls often land in your voicemail instead of ringing through to your phone.
When properly deployed, 5G technology solves all these problems. Firstly, 5G is designed from the ground up to handle congestion much more efficiently, but it also has another trick up its sleeve: mmWave.
Earlier 3G and 4G/LTE networks were limited to a narrow band of frequencies, generally living in the 800MHz and 1.9Ghz zones. While 5G can operate here as well, it also has access to a set of much higher frequencies known as the mmWave, or millimeter wave, spectrum.
 Operating at the 28GHz and 39GHz frequencies, mmWave transceivers can handle a substantially larger number of connections without breaking a sweat.
The range of mmWave spectrum tends to be very short — about a city block — but all carriers need to do is place a few around a stadium, concert hall, or airport, and they can offer unprecedented connectivity. With 5G, you’ll get the same performance whether you’re sitting at home or attending an NCAA basketball game surrounded by 70,000 of your closest friends.
Image used with permission by copyright holder The catch is that if you want to be guaranteed top performance in scenarios like this, you’ll need a smartphone capable of connecting at these extremely high mmWave frequencies. Apple’s and Samsung’s flagships will certainly have you covered, but others like Google’s Pixel 6 may be a mixed bag.
There’s no need to fret if your 5G phone doesn’t support mmWave. Almost all 5G smartphones can use the midrange C-band frequencies , which can still deliver better performance on congested networks than the lower spectrum used by 4G/LTE.
Lower latency It’s true that 5G has lower latency than 4G and 3G connections, but what does that mean? There are two aspects to performance when it comes to digital communications. While raw download and upload speeds are the metrics many like to focus on, these aren’t nearly as important for smartphone users as latency.
Rich Shibley/Digital Trends Download speeds only measure how fast a single stream of data can be delivered to your device. However, fast download speeds don’t always equal a responsive connection due to the way digital communications work. This is because additional overhead is required for each new request sent and response received. Downloading a single file, or streaming a single video, relies on an existing, established connection. The kind of back-and-forth traffic involved in web surfing, instant messaging, and online gaming requires many separate connections in each direction.
By way of analogy, it may be helpful to think of a communication network as an interstate highway. Once you’re on the interstate, you can travel far and fast, but you have to get onto it first. That’s the latency part, and if you’re making many shorter trips back and forth, that extra time quickly adds up.
Latency can be a problem even on wired broadband connections, but it’s far worse on traditional 3G and 4G/LTE cellular networks. This is why mobile connections have always been a relatively poor choice for online gaming; low latency is crucial if you want to ensure that your opponent gets the message as soon as you pull the trigger.
When the architects of 5G were designing the new technology, they made it a priority to deliver at least the low level of latency found on wired broadband networks, if not better. The result is that when you’re on a 5G network, your overall experience of everything from surfing to online gaming should feel snappier, smoother, and more responsive.
5G in the home Although most of the news around 5G seems to focus on smartphones and mobile network operators, 5G is also revolutionizing how internet connectivity is delivered to homes and businesses. In the same way a traditional broadband router bridges a wired connection into your home Wi-Fi and Ethernet network, a 5G router can bridge a 5G wireless network. The devices in your home use Wi-Fi just like before, but instead of running a coaxial or fiber-optic cable into your home, everything gets connected to the internet wirelessly over 5G.
T-Mobile While 5G home internet is still in its nascent stages , the big three U.S. carriers have been making serious inroads. T-Mobile recently celebrated 1 million 5G home internet customers around the same time it announced a similar offering for small businesses across the country.
While 5G home internet typically offers download speeds of 30mbps to 180Mbps, wired broadband connections still have a leg up on 5G home internet. However, it’s a safe bet these speeds will only improve as carriers roll out more 5G infrastructure.
The 5G vision for tomorrow What we’re seeing today is just the tip of the iceberg when it comes to the promise of 5G technology. The bandwidth, low latency, and other more technical capabilities of 5G are opening the doors to many other possibilities.
However, the infrastructure needs to be in place before many of these things can happen. We’re still in the building-out phase right now. The 5G that’s here today offers enough to power the kind of online communications we’re already doing on our smartphones, tablets, and laptops, but it will take some time before it’s ready to power a new generation of smart devices.
Samsung Researchers are already looking at ways that 5G can be used for autonomous vehicles , drones, and health care devices, but the network must understandably be both ubiquitous and bulletproof before that can happen.
The routers used by today’s 5G home and business internet services are likely only a stopgap measure. As 5G capacity increases and connectivity becomes near-universal, the day is coming when you won’t need a home router at all. Everything from your laptop and smart TV to your refrigerator and coffee maker will be able to connect directly to the internet over 5G. Naturally, some security concerns will need to be addressed before this becomes a reality, but researchers are working on solutions to those issues as well.
Meanwhile, private 5G networks are popping up in factories, university campuses , shopping malls , and even resort hotels to deliver high-performance connectivity to visitors, employees, students, and guests over a much wider area. Finally, 5G will also ultimately be a key component in powering the smart cities of the future.
Editors' Recommendations This new MediaTek chip is about to bring 5G to a lot more devices T-Mobile still has the fastest 5G, but its rivals are catching up The 5G speed race is over and T-Mobile has won Live in a rural area? Verizon 5G is about to get better for you T-Mobile’s 5G is still unmatched — but have speeds plateaued? 5G Features Mobile Motorola may be making a play for the flagship market with the Motorola Edge 40 Pro, but budget phones are what the American monolith is best known for. While it won't be making as many waves as the latest Samsung phone or Apple iPhone launch, the newest iteration of the Moto G is always something worth paying attention to, as Motorola is a true veteran of the space and knows what makes an excellent cheap device.
Best of all, this new Moto G comes at a time when budget phone enthusiasts have never had it so good. Previously premium features are filtering down into lower-priced devices, without altering that sweet low price or the features everyone loves. That's exactly what's happening with the new Motorola Moto G Power 5G, which includes a 50-megapixel main camera lens, a larger amount of storage, and a big screen with a 120Hz refresh rate. With the big 5,000mAh battery the G Power range is known for, this could be the $300 phone to grab if you love a budget bargain.
Super-smooth motion Mobile If you’ve been on the fence about picking up one of the latest Galaxy S23 phones, some new research from Ookla may help tip the scales in Samsung’s favor.
In a new speed test report, Ookla tcompared the 5G performance specs of the Galaxy S23 models to last year’s Galaxy S22 in several countries — with some surprising results across the board.
A worthwhile 5G upgrade Mobile Qualcomm has just announced the Snapdragon X75, the company's sixth-generation 5G modem that promises to push smartphones and other connected devices into the next phase of 5G technology.
The Snapdragon X75 is the successor to last year's X70, which is the modem found in the Snapdragon 8 Gen 2 that powers this year's most powerful 5G smartphones — including Samsung's recently unveiled Galaxy S23 Ultra and the OnePlus 11. However, it's more than just an evolution of that earlier modem system, as Qualcomm has packed in support for next-generation 5G Advanced technology along with an entirely new architecture and powerful AI features that will allow mobile devices to access better coverage and achieve even faster speeds.
5G grows up big-time Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
