Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Phones Best Tablets Tesla Phone Download Android 14 Best Android Phones Home Mobile Features Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? What is mmWave? High-band 5G explained By Jesse Hollington Close The rollout of 5G technology around the world has been considerably more complex than the wireless standards that came before. Since 5G demands unprecedented levels of performance, carriers have to navigate a tricky sea of radio frequencies to ensure they can deliver the best speeds and coverage possible.
What is mmWave? Range vs. speed Phenomenal cosmic speeds, itty bitty range The mmWave landscape Benefits of mmWave Key mmWave frequencies The future is C-band Older GSM, 3G, and 4G/LTE technologies ran within a relatively narrow band of frequencies, leaving carriers with somewhat limited choices in deploying their networks. By comparison, 5G covers the entire spectrum, from low-band 600MHz to extremely high 47GHz frequencies.
O-RAN Alliance The result is that 5G gives carriers a wealth of options for how to best roll out their 5G networks, allowing them to try for an ideal balance between coverage and performance. Under ideal circumstances, this would provide the best 5G for everyone. However, in the real world, things are considerably more complicated.
What is mmWave? At the top end of this range of the 5G spectrum is where the mmWave, or “millimeter wave,” frequencies live, running from 24GHz to 47GHz. Technically speaking, millimeter wave is defined as the Extremely High Frequency (EHF) range from 30GHz to 300GHz, so named because those are the frequencies where wavelengths get as short as one millimeter.
Have an Android phone? You can get unlimited 5G service for free T-Mobile’s huge lead in 5G speeds isn’t going anywhere Netgear’s new M6 Pro router lets you use fast 5G anywhere you go However, as with the C-band spectrum , the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) redefined the lower end of the mmWave range in the U.S. to begin in the upper range of the Super High Frequency (SHF) zone, starting at 24GHz, crossing over into EHF on the way to 47GHz, which is currently the top end of the spectrum allocated for 5G.
The FCC plans to license even higher mmWave spectrum eventually — it’s looking at the 57–64GHz range that’s currently unlicensed and the lightly-used 71GHz, 81GHz, and 92GHz frequencies. However, that’s still likely a few years away, particularly since carriers have yet to utilize the mmWave spectrum they already have fully.
Range vs. speed As anybody who has worked with home Wi-Fi routers knows, higher frequencies provide more bandwidth for faster speeds, but this comes at the expense of range and coverage. The 2.4GHz signal from your router will likely cover your entire home but at relatively poor speeds, while the 5GHz frequencies offer excellent performance for gaming and streaming but might not make it to your basement or back room.
This is just how the laws of physics work when it comes to radio waves. Higher frequencies are faster but can’t travel nearly as far as the lower and slower frequencies.
Cellular carriers face the same challenges with delivering strong and fast signals to their customers as you would finding an ideal place for your Wi-Fi router. It’s just that carriers have to deal with this on a much larger scale.
Using higher frequencies allows carriers to deliver faster speeds, but the tradeoff is that they need to build more towers and place them closer together to provide the same coverage that a lower-frequency signal would.
Phenomenal cosmic speeds, itty bitty range At one time, the high-frequency mmWave 5G band was what many believed would be the future of 5G technology. After all, it can deliver ridiculously impressive speeds that go well beyond what most wired broadband services are even capable of.
Under ideal conditions, 5G speeds over mmWave frequencies can reach 4Gbps, although it’s more typical to find devices hovering in the 500Mbps–1Gbps zone.
 However, even the slowest mmWave speeds are 3–4 times faster than the average 5G performance available when using lower frequencies.
As some carriers quickly discovered, the problem is that these extremely high frequencies have a depressingly short range; a single mmWave transceiver isn’t likely to provide solid coverage for anything much larger than a city block.
Julian Chokkattu/Digital Trends That shouldn’t be surprising when you consider that mmWave signals start at 24GHz — an order of magnitude above the frequencies customarily used for Wi-Fi and cellular communications.
However, that places them well out of range of anything that would typically cause interference, particularly since everything on those frequencies also has a similarly short range. Usually, you’ll find the EHF spectrum used by satellite weather systems, military weapons radar, police speed radar, and security screening systems at airport checkpoints.
The mmWave landscape With all that in mind, it’s not surprising that most carriers haven’t done much with mmWave technology.
Among the U.S. carriers, only Verizon bet heavily on mmWave in its early 5G deployments.
 AT&T dabbled in it while T-Mobile mainly steered clear of that spectrum.
Verizon’s gamble allowed it to boast stunningly fast 5G speeds early on. A 2020 report by OpenSignal showed Verizon with a massive global lead, with average download speeds more than twice as fast as its next-nearest rival, South Korea’s LG U+.
OpenSignal However, the trick to these high speeds was that Verizon was using mmWave spectrum exclusively for its 5G network. The carrier had no slower midband or low-band 5G networks to drag its numbers down. This was Verizon’s 5G Ultra Wideband Network as it originally existed. It ran almost entirely on the 28GHz spectrum.
Further, Verizon’s 506Mbps speeds needed to come with a pretty big qualifier — they weren’t available to 99% of the carrier’s customers. The extremely short range of mmWave meant that Verizon hadn’t deployed it beyond a few major urban centers , and OpenSignal noted that Verizon’s customers only accessed its mmWave 5G network about 0.4% of the time. This figure doubled to 0.8% by 2021 , but that still meant that Verizon’s customers spent more than 99% of their time on a 4G/LTE connection.
AT&T opted for more strategic use of mmWave.
 It had licensed a chunk of 24GHz 5G spectrum early on, primarily deployed for business use in a few cities. Later, it dropped $1.2 billion to acquire a sizeable chunk of 39GHz spectrum, which it’s been more actively deploying to its customers. AT&T calls this its 5G+ service.
Technically speaking, T-Mobile does have some mmWave deployments in a few cities, but the carrier doesn’t talk about it very much. T-Mobile had a nice chunk of fast midband spectrum to play with long before its rivals could get their hands on the coveted C-band spectrum , so mmWave hasn’t been nearly as important to the carrier’s plans.
Benefits of mmWave Rather than base its entire 5G network on mmWave as Verizon did, AT&T has focused on augmenting its lower-frequency 5G with mmWave cells in extremely dense areas like stadiums and airports.
This takes advantage of one of the most significant benefits of mmWave. The extremely high frequencies don’t just offer higher bandwidth for individual users; all that extra bandwidth also lets it handle congestion far more effectively.
To use some oversimplified math, if a mmWave transceiver can offer up to 4Gbps of throughput to a single device, 40 devices can easily get stable 100Mbps connections without slowing each other down.
Further, the shorter range of mmWave means that carriers have to deploy many more transceivers. By the time AT&T has put up enough transceivers to cover a football stadium, it can efficiently deliver high-performance 5G to thousands of folks attending a game or event.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Similarly, mmWave is ideal at airports, not just because of the high number of passengers passing through but also because those frequencies are so far removed from anything used in aviation that there’s no controversy surrounding them.
T-Mobile has also quietly said that it will continue building out mmWave where it makes sense to do so, but unlike AT&T and Verizon, it doesn’t plan to differentiate its mmWave network. T-Mobile customers won’t see a “5G+” or “5G UW” symbol on their phones when connected to mmWave. Instead, folks on T-Mobile will get solid coverage and performance whether they’re sitting at home or attending the Super Bowl.
Key mmWave frequencies Some carriers have licensed other chunks of mmWave spectrum as well, although most of it likely won’t be available for use anytime soon.
For example, T-Mobile and Dish hold licenses that account for 99% of the 47GHz spectrum. It’s unclear what those carriers plan to do with this, particularly since it will provide even worse coverage against Verizon’s 28GHz and AT&T’s 39GHz.
Jesse Hollington / Digital Trends More significantly, no consumer smartphones can even reach the 47GHz frequencies right now. Apple’s iPhone 13 lineup and Samsung’s Galaxy S22 models only support a handful of mmWave 5G bands, which are designated as n257 (28GHz), n258 (26GHz), n260 (39GHz), and n261 (28GHz). Of these, only n260 and n261 are used by U.S. carriers; the others are for compatibility with mmWave 5G services globally.
The future is C-band As exciting as the mmWave spectrum sounded in the first days of 5G, the carriers have realized that’s not where the future of 5G technology lies.
Verizon had to learn that lesson the hardest of all, with an early 5G network that was nonexistent to 99% of its customers. Verizon followed that with a lower-frequency “Nationwide 5G Network” that shared space with its 4G/LTE signals. This gave customers the “5G” indicator on their phones but generally delivered speeds that weren’t better than 4G.
It wasn’t until Verizon could deploy its C-band spectrum that its 5G fortunes truly began to change. This wasn’t entirely Verizon’s fault; it first had to drop $45 billion to license the C-band spectrum, then battle an aviation industry that feared it would cause problems with aircraft instruments.
Nevertheless, when Verizon finally turned the key on its new C-band in early 2022, many more of its customers began to see true 5G speeds.
 It was such a leap in performance that Verizon made the new C-band network part of its Ultra Wideband 5G service.
While AT&T has been rolling out its C-band service more gradually , customers in the few cities where that’s available have also discovered an impressive boost in their 5G speeds.
Even T-Mobile, which already has its strong 2.5GHz Ultra Capacity 5G network , plans to use the higher-frequency C-band spectrum to give its customers a necessary boost in those areas where more capacity is needed.
In the end, the role of mmWave in public 5G technology is to augment existing networks, not to replace them. The massive capacity of the mmWave spectrum makes it ideal for delivering reliable 5G in extremely dense population centers. However, the short-range means it’s never going to be able to stand on its own. mmWave will always be most suitable when used as a “power-up” to bolster 5G in certain areas.
Editors' Recommendations This new MediaTek chip is about to bring 5G to a lot more devices T-Mobile still has the fastest 5G, but its rivals are catching up The 5G speed race is over and T-Mobile has won Live in a rural area? Verizon 5G is about to get better for you T-Mobile’s 5G is still unmatched — but have speeds plateaued? 5G Features Mobile Motorola may be making a play for the flagship market with the Motorola Edge 40 Pro, but budget phones are what the American monolith is best known for. While it won't be making as many waves as the latest Samsung phone or Apple iPhone launch, the newest iteration of the Moto G is always something worth paying attention to, as Motorola is a true veteran of the space and knows what makes an excellent cheap device.
Best of all, this new Moto G comes at a time when budget phone enthusiasts have never had it so good. Previously premium features are filtering down into lower-priced devices, without altering that sweet low price or the features everyone loves. That's exactly what's happening with the new Motorola Moto G Power 5G, which includes a 50-megapixel main camera lens, a larger amount of storage, and a big screen with a 120Hz refresh rate. With the big 5,000mAh battery the G Power range is known for, this could be the $300 phone to grab if you love a budget bargain.
Super-smooth motion Mobile If you’ve been on the fence about picking up one of the latest Galaxy S23 phones, some new research from Ookla may help tip the scales in Samsung’s favor.
In a new speed test report, Ookla tcompared the 5G performance specs of the Galaxy S23 models to last year’s Galaxy S22 in several countries — with some surprising results across the board.
A worthwhile 5G upgrade Mobile Qualcomm has just announced the Snapdragon X75, the company's sixth-generation 5G modem that promises to push smartphones and other connected devices into the next phase of 5G technology.
The Snapdragon X75 is the successor to last year's X70, which is the modem found in the Snapdragon 8 Gen 2 that powers this year's most powerful 5G smartphones — including Samsung's recently unveiled Galaxy S23 Ultra and the OnePlus 11. However, it's more than just an evolution of that earlier modem system, as Qualcomm has packed in support for next-generation 5G Advanced technology along with an entirely new architecture and powerful AI features that will allow mobile devices to access better coverage and achieve even faster speeds.
5G grows up big-time Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
