Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Share Wi-Fi Password on iPhone How to Restart iPhone Screen Record on iPhone Back Up an iPhone Clear Cache on iPhone Share Location on iPhone Home Mobile Products Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? The best iPhone 15 Plus cases in 2023: 11 best ones right now By Christine Romero-Chan Close One of Apple’s latest and greatest, the iPhone 15 Plus, is finally here. Announced at Apple's big iPhone 15 event , the iPhone 15 Plus gives you a huge 6.7-inch Super Retina XDR OLED display with Dynamic Island, an A16 Bionic chip for fast performance, and a powerful dual-camera system with a 48MP wide and 12MP ultrawide lenses.
It has also ditched Lightning for USB-C , and it comes in five fun colors this year.
But considering that the iPhone 15 Plus still starts at a hefty $899 for the base model, that’s some pricey glass and aluminum. You definitely want to protect your investment, and one of the easiest ways to do so is with a good case. Here are some of the best iPhone 15 Plus cases you can buy right now.
More Speck Speck Presidio2 Grip MagSafe Case The best grip iPhone 15 Plus case Slim profile Super grippy Fun colors MagSafe-compatible 13-foot drop protection Limited color range Speck has been a trusted name for phone protection for many years, and the Presidio2 Grip MagSafe case is one of the best you can get right now. With the inverted grip design, it provides exceptional grip so it's hard to drop the phone. And with the inverted design, it is less prone to wearing out like the old design with the rubber grips that protruded. It's one of the grippiest cases on the market.
The Presidio2 Grip MagSafe also retains a slim profile and clicky tactile buttons, and it also has impressive 13-foot drop protection thanks to the air capsules all around the sides and corners. So if you somehow manage to drop the phone with this case on, it should still be safe and sound. The case is made with 50% recycled materials, has a Microban coating to protect from stain- and odor-causing bacteria, and is fully MagSafe compatible.
Toronata Toronata Casper Detachable Leather Wallet Case The best leather wallet iPhone 15 Plus case Functional and detachable wallet case design Slim profile for case itself MagSafe compatible for wireless charging Made with genuine leather Holds four credit cards and cash Transparent window for ID card Multiple leather colors Pricey This wallet case from Toronata features a detachable shell case that attaches to the wallet via strong magnets. The case offers a unique genuine leather back that will develop a rich patina over time. The interior of the case is lined with a soft microfiber material that won't scratch your phone.
The wallet itself is also made with genuine leather, and there are four slots for your credit cards, as well as a cash compartment. You also have a clear window to hold your ID, as well as a slot to push your ID through for easy access. It has RFID protection from card skimming, and a magnetic closure to keep everything safe and secure. The wallet can also be used as a kickstand for hands-free viewing. And the best part? There are multiple leather color options, so you can find the one that suits you best.
Supcase Supcase Unicorn Beetle PRO Rugged Case The best rugged iPhone 15 Plus case Super-rugged protection Full body design with built-in screen protector Shock-absorbing TPU and polycarbonate Includes rotating belt clip holster Very affordable Rugged look not for everyone Those who need some rugged protection for their iPhone 15 Plus should look into the highly affordable Unicorn Beetle Pro Rugged Case from Supcase. This one is made with shock-absorbing TPU and polycarbonate material, and it can withstand drops from pretty much any height. The rugged design also includes an integrated full screen protector and a rotating belt clip holster.
The Unicorn Beetle Pro is one of the best and most affordable rugged options out there, so if that's what you need, give this one a try.
More Spigen Spigen Ultra Hybrid Zero One White Case The best geeky iPhone 15 Plus case Cool transparent teardown design Air cushion tech for shock absorption Tough and durable More color choices available Highly affordable Teardown design not for everyone Spigen makes some great cases, and this Ultra Hybrid Zero One is no exception. With Spigen's Ultra Hybrid cases, you get a clear shell that lets your iPhone color shine through. The case is made with a flexible PC material that is tough and durable with a shock absorbing air cushion technology. You also have raised edges to protect the screen and camera, and the buttons have great tactile feedback. MagSafe is also integrated in this version of the case.
Here we have the Zero One design in white, which gives you a glimpse of what's inside the iPhone 15 Plus. It's very geeky and cool, and will surely turn heads. There's also a dark gray version of the Zero One design, or you can just go with the regular clear case with a colored MagSafe ring too.
Spigen Spigen Ultra Hybrid S MagFit Case The best kickstand iPhone 15 Plus case Simple clear case Durable protection MagSafe Integrated kickstand Color only affects MagSafe ring Need a simple clear case that lets you enjoy hands-free viewing? Spigen's Ultra Hybrid S MagFit case gets the job done. This clear case is made with a blend of PC and TPU for flexibility and durability. You'll have the raised edges to protect the screen and cameras, and the buttons have great tactile feedback. Plus, with the materials, it's easy to get on and off when needed. It is also infused with blue resin for long-lasting clarity, so don't expect this one to turn yellow any time soon.
What makes this case really great is that it not only has MagSafe, but it has a built-in kickstand. Just flip that kickstand out and enjoy hands free viewing with your iPhone 15 Plus! It's integrated nicely and isn't in the way when you don't need it either.
Velvet Caviar Velvet Caviar Pink Stardust MagSafe Case The best stylish iPhone 15 Plus case Tough and durable Slim profile Tons of designs to choose from MagSafe 8-foot drop protection More feminine designs If you want a stylish case, look no further than Velvet Caviar. There are a ton of designs to choose from, but we like this Pink Stardust one in particular. But if that's not your taste, there's a design to suit anyone's fancy with Velvet Caviar.
These cases are not just cute and slim, but they offer incredible protection too. You have 8-foot drop protection with full body shockproof cushioning. The TPU bumper is soft and you have a hard PC plate for the ultimate protection. It also has MagSafe built-in, so it works with all of your favorite accessories.
Casetify Casetify Impact Case The best customizable iPhone 15 Plus case Super tough protection Slim profile Tons of designs and colors Website offers customization options 8-foot drop protection MagSafe Very expensive Branding around camera cutout Casetify is one of the best brands out there for slim but incredibly tough and durable cases. You can find several different color options from Amazon, but if you check out Casetify's website , there are hundreds of different designs and colors to choose from, as well as unique collaborations like with Disney, Star Wars, Marvel, Evangelion, NBA, One Piece, and so much more. You can even customize and design your own case if you so choose.
The Impact Case is one of the best offerings from Casetify. It has a fairly slim profile, but it is incredible tough, durable, and rugged for what it's worth. Casetify also uses recycled materials from old phone cases in their cases, so they're sustainable as well. I've been using Casetify cases for a long time, and they remain some of my favorites.
Though we're talking about the Impact case here, Casetify also has some even more rugged offerings, such as the new Ultra Bounce Case, which offers drop protection up to 32-feet, but it will cost you a pretty penny ($100+).
ESR ESR Cloud Series Slim Liquid Silicone Case The best soft iPhone 15 Plus case Super thin profile Soft touch silicone material Tough protection Adds grip MagSafe Not everyone likes silicone Like the soft touch feel of silicone? Then ESR offers an affordable option compared to Apple's own silicone cases. The Cloud Series Liquid Silicone Case from ESR has a silky-smooth silicone material that is soft and grippy. It also has a triple-layer build with a rigid polycarbonate core, silicone exterior that absorbs shock, and a velvety soft microfiber lining to prevent scratches. And despite being silicone, it has military grade drop protection.
And yes, this ESR case does have MagSafe support! You have 1,200g of holding force so it's actually quite strong. If you ever encountered a weak MagSafe ring, then don't worry — this ESR case will have a secure lock with your favorite MagSafe accessories.
Burga Burga iPhone 15 Plus Case The best hybrid iPhone 15 Plus case Elegant and stylish design Two-layer protection Several different designs to pick from Affordable Scratch resistant More feminine designs Burga's cases come in unique, elegant designs that will definitely turn heads when you're out and about. These cases also feature a hybrid design with two layers of protection. The first is the inner shock absorbing silicone layer that will keep your device safe from impact. Then you snap the hard plastic shell on top.
The shell is scratch-resistant, and the HD printed designs won't fade or peel away. And the Burga cases have a raised lip around the front glass to keep it safe if you place the device face down.
OtterBox OtterBox Symmetry Series for MagSafe Case The best simple iPhone 15 Plus case Simple design Slim profile Military-grade protection Multiple color options MagSafe compatible Pricey OtterBox is a brand that is known for tough and rugged cases. But the Symmetry Series is a slimmer profile than it's rugged options, so it won't add much bulk. But despite being more slim, the Symmetry Series still offers OtterBox's incredibly tough and durable protection. When your phone is in the case, it will definitely be protected from any drops, bumps, and everyday wear and tear.
The Symmetry Series also comes in multiple color options to go with all of your outfits. This one is also MagSafe compatible, and it has clicky, tactile buttons that feel great when pressed. OtterBox is a trusted brand, and the Symmetry offers its military grade protection in a non-bulky form factor.
OtterBox OtterBox Figura Series for MagSafe Case The best slim iPhone 15 Plus case Super slim profile Durable protection Fun colors Soft touch material Pricey OtterBox's Figura Series for MagSafe is one of its thinner offerings, but still serves up tough protection. Figura Series cases have a soft touch finish that feels great to hold and adds grip to the device. Raised edges on the Figura Series help keep the screen and camera safe, while the rest of the case still offers protection from everyday wear and tear.
The Figura Series has some unique colors and patterns that you won't find on other OtterBox cases. For example, this Unicorn Sorbet colorway is a beautiful mix of pastel green, pink, purple, and blue. OtterBox also has some other distinctive colors for this case as well, if that's not your cup of tea. This one is also fully compatible with MagSafe.
Editors' Recommendations The best iPhone 15 Pro Max screen protectors in 2023 The best Samsung Galaxy S23 Plus cases: 21 you can’t ignore Over 3,000 iPhone 15 cases discounted for early Black Friday — from $3 The best iPhone 15 Pro Max cases in 2023: the 20 best ones This sealed-in-box iPhone can be yours for under $150 today Apple Apple iPhone Best Products Mobile "Fitness" can mean a lot of things. For some people, it's being able to run far, or run fast. For others, it's being able to lift heavy things and lower them back down again. Others may simply want to keep trim, or eat healthily. It may even mean getting a great night's sleep, or making sure your mental wellness is at its best. Whatever fitness means for you, we have a list of apps that cover all the possible bases. These apps excel in a number of different areas, but what they all generally have in common is that they use your iPhone's powerful tech to monitor and analyze your performance. As a result, they can help you progress along your fitness journey.
These apps are great at keeping you fit, but they're always best when paired with other tech, so make sure to check out our lists of the best fitness trackers and the best running headphones. Here are the best fitness apps for the iPhone in 2023.
Apple Fitness Mobile As much as we love having the best smartphones in our pockets, there are times when those small screens don't cut it, and we just need a larger display. That's when you turn to a tablet, which is great for being productive on the go and can be a great way to unwind and relax too. While the tablet market really took off after the iPad, it has grown to be quite diverse with a huge variety of products — from great budget options to powerhouses for professionals.
We've tried out a lot of tablets here at Digital Trends, from the workhorses for pros to tablets that are made for kids and even seniors, there's a tablet for every person and every budget. For most people, though, we think Apple's iPad Air is the best overall tablet — especially if you're already invested in the Apple ecosystem. But if you're not an Apple user, that's fine too; there are plenty of other great options that you'll find in this roundup.
Mobile Choosing the best phone in 2023 can be quite challenging as there are so many excellent options available. Whether you are an iPhone fan, an Android user, or open to any smartphone, finding the perfect one for you may seem like a daunting task. But don't worry, we're here to help! Below, we have compiled a list of our top picks for the best phones you can currently buy. We believe that there's something for everyone on this list, and we're confident that you'll find a phone that suits your preferences perfectly.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
