Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Share Wi-Fi Password on iPhone How to Restart iPhone Screen Record on iPhone Back Up an iPhone Clear Cache on iPhone Share Location on iPhone Home Mobile Products Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? The best iPhone 15 Plus screen protectors in 2023: 10 best ones By Mark Jansen Close Is 2023 the year of the iPhone? It very well may be, with the Apple iPhone 15 and iPhone 15 Plus specifically receiving big upgrades this year. Following in the iPhone 14 Pro's footsteps, the iPhone 15 and 15 Plus have received a massive design update , including the addition of the Dynamic Island and a notch-less design. Also included is the powerful Apple A16 Bionic processor and a new 48-megapixel camera lens.
It's a strong pair, and if you want a big display to go with your new iPhone, then you want the iPhone 15 Plus. With a big 6.7-inch display, it's one of the largest iPhones currently for sale. But a lot of display is a blessing and a curse, and one bad spill can mean a cracked screen that can ruin your new phone. A screen protector can stop that from happening. However, there are many screen protectors to choose from, and some are definitely better than others. Here are some of the best Apple iPhone 15 Plus screen protectors.
Skinomi Skinomi TechSkin Film Protector The best cheap film iPhone 15 Plus screen protector Twin pack Good basic protection Great value Not as protective as glass Glass may be the more protective material, but there are good reasons to buy a film screen protector. They're thin, adding barely any additional bulk to a device, and they protect against a number of hazards, including scratches, smudges from fingerprints, and dirt and grime. And when it's done for? Just peel it off and slap on another.
A good film protector is a great choice if you're in a dirty environment and just want some basic protection against dust and similar debris. These protectors from Skinomi offer a good balance between price and protection. They won't do much against bigger problems, like bumps and drops, but if you want basic protection, these are great.
Tech Armor Tech Armor Clear Film Protector The best value film iPhone 15 Plus screen protector Excellent value Protects against scratches and grime Case-friendly Not as protective as other options One of the real advantages of film protectors is they are quick and easy to replace, and this quad-pack of protectors from Tech Armor is perfect if you want a basic layer of protection that you don't have to worry about replacing often. The low price and high number of replacements in this pack mean each protector comes out at less than $2 apiece, so you don't need to worry if one gets caked with grime, dust, or smudgy fingerprint marks. Just replace it and you're good. It's also a great but if you just want basic protection and like the idea of having a number of replacements at your fingertips. It won't protect as well as glass would, but this is still a good choice if you don't want to spend a lot of money.
Mous Mous Hybrid Glass Protector The best premium film Apple iPhone 15 Plus screen protector Twin pack Good all-around protection Blend of glass and TPU film Expensive for film Why choose between glass and film if you don't have to? Mous' Hybrid Glass protector is a blend of the two materials that brings together the best elements of both. It's strong and feels great, like glass, while also being flexible and shatterproof, like film. This mix does mean the Hybrid Glass doesn't excel in areas you'd expect dedicated film or glass protectors to excel in, but as a blend of both, it has its own appeal.
The Hybrid Glass doesn't have the plastic feel of film, giving you enhanced clarity and the finger "glide" you have on your original screen. With this product, the shatterproof nature of film combines with the strength of glass to protect your screen from minor drops time after time. It's on the more expensive side for film, but it's great if you can't pick between film and glass.
Spigen Spigen Tempered Glass GlasTR EZ Fit Protector The best cheap glass iPhone 15 Plus screen protector Strong protection Twin pack value Install kit No advanced features Spigen is one of the biggest names in the mobile accessory business, so it should come as no surprise that it is very good at what it does. The Spigen GlasTR EZ Fit has a bit of a weird name, but it's a fantastic protector to grab if you want one you can easily apply. It comes with an installation frame, so you can make sure you apply it right the first time — and even if you don't, there's a second protector in the box, so you can have a second shot.
The tempered glass is strong, resisting scratches, bumps, and drops. And as you might expect, it's also fully compatible with Spigen's cases. There are no special features here to speak of though, so if you want antiglare coatings or privacy screens, you'll need to look elsewhere. But if a basic glass protector is what you want, this offers that and a spare, for a solid price.
Otterbox Otterbox Premium Glass Protector The best glass iPhone 15 Plus screen protector Strong glass protection Shatter-resistant up to 3 feet Easy install kit Fingerprint resistant Expensive You can get glass protectors for very little money indeed, but should you? Otterbox's Premium Glass protector certainly costs more than many others, but it's still an option that's well worth considering to keep your phone safe. After all, you've just spent a lot of money on a phone, so why not splurge on some protection too? The Premium Glass protector has earned its place on this list for sure. Otterbox claims it can resist shattering from drops of up to 3 feet. It's also fingerprint resistant, and maintains your display's clarity and responsiveness. The secret? It's made from aluminosilicate glass, a special type of glass that's stronger than regular glas, and gives the Premium Glass its strength. It's strong, very thin, and while expensive, it's worth every penny — especially with Otterbox's lifetime warranty.
UAG UAG Shield Plus Glass Protector The best alternate glass iPhone 15 Plus screen protector Strong and slim protection Compatible with UAG's cases Install kit Oleophobic coating Expensive We couldn't pick between UAG's Shield Plus protector and Otterbox's protector, so we just went ahead and listed them both. Like the Otterbox protector above, the Shield Plus is another expensive option, but it's again worth that money, as it offers a lot of strength for your buck.
The tempered glass is double-strengthened, so it can withstand more punishment than your average glass protector while also being just 0.33mm thin. The full-coverage design means it extends all the way to the edge, without gaps, and fits perfectly with UAG's cases. That fit is also ensured with the installation kit, and there's even a small cleaning kit included so your display is pristine before application.
SuperShieldz SuperShieldz Anti-Glare Matte Protector The best cheap antiglare iPhone 15 Plus screen protector Excellent price Antiglare matte coating Good protection against scratches and dirt Lower protective qualities than more expensive glass If you're outdoors a lot, you know the terror that is bright sunlight. Even with the iPhone 15 Plus' screen going up to 2,000 nits, glare from sunlight or other strong lights can make it hard, if not impossible, to read anything on your screen.
Thankfully, there's a cheap way to cut out that glare: SuperShieldz's matte coated protector. Despite the low price, it's a glass protector, so it has good protective qualities. It won't be as protective as more expensive protectors, but it's also a lot cheaper, and comes with a spare. The matte coating is the real star here, as it helps to cut out glare that would otherwise ruin your viewing experience.
Tech21 Tech21 Impact Glass Anti-Glare Protector The best antiglare iPhone 15 Plus screen protector Strong enough to withstand multiple drops Antimicrobial Install frame included Expensive If you're looking for something a little more high-end, but still equipped with antiglare properties, then look no further than Tech21. The Impact Glass has a fine pedigree, and Tech21 isn't afraid of throwing new features into its variants, which is exactly how we've ended up with this excellent protector.
The antiglare coating reduces glare from sunlight and other strong sources of light, but there are more features built into the protector's coating than just that. It's also antimicrobial, and it has a scratch-resistant layer with self-healing properties, helping it stay looking newer for longer. The glass itself has been designed to especially protect against the damage from drops, and though it's expensive, it packs a lot in to a small package.
Ringke Ringke Privacy Glass Protector The best cheap privacy iPhone 15 Plus screen protector Protects your privacy from snoopers Strong glass protection Case-friendly Reduces viewing angles and visibility Our smartphones are a big part of our lives, and that means everything, public and private, tends to pass over its display. Whether you're just a private person, or don't like the idea of anyone seeing your bank balance, stopping snoopers in their tracks is a very good idea. Ringke's Privacy Glass protector ensures your privacy, offering a polarizing layer within the glass that shifts to black when viewed from an angle.
The glass itself is rated at 9H, so it's hard enough to resist scratches from keys and coins, while warding off smudges and dirt as well. While the privacy layer does mean your viewing angles are impacted, Ringke's Privacy Glass gives you privacy without costing a lot.
InvisibleShield InvisibleShield Glass Elite Privacy 360 Protector The best privacy iPhone 15 Plus screen protector Excellent four-way privacy protection Extremely strong Install tray Recycled content Chip-resistant edges Very expensive Reduces viewing angles InvisibleShield has made a name for itself with its premium screen protectors, and the Glass Elite Privacy 360 is the latest of those. The "360" in the name refers to the degrees of protection offered; rather than most privacy protectors, which only shift along one axis, this protector instead protects in two axes. Effectively, this means it protects when viewed from landscape just as well as it protects when viewed in portrait.
Not all protectors can offer this, and it's a big advantage for this admittedly pricey product. It's strongly protected though, being made from aluminosilicate glass. It also has reinforced edges that resist chips, protecting your fingertips. It even comes with a lifetime warranty, which should help to make up for that very high price.
Editors' Recommendations The best iPhone 15 Pro Max screen protectors in 2023 The best iPhone 15 case Black Friday deals you can buy now The best iPhone 15 Pro Max cases in 2023: the 20 best ones The best health and fitness apps for iPhone in 2023: 18 best ones The best phones in 2023: our 15 favorite smartphones right now Apple Apple iPhone Best Products Mobile If you can no longer wait for Black Friday to buy a new smartphone, the good news is that you can already take advantage of some early Black Friday phone deals. We're not sure until when they'll remain available, and if their prices will change once the shopping holiday arrives, but if you're interested in any of the offers that we've highlighted below, it's highly recommended that you proceed with the purchase immediately.
Apple iPhone 15 -- $60 per month Mobile Folding smartphones have taken the world by storm. Initially, they appeared futuristic and exciting. However, with time, they have been refined and improved to cater to everyday use. Their prices are gradually decreasing as the technology advances, but they still remain expensive purchases, making it crucial to make the right buying decision.
Currently, there are two types of folding smartphones available in the market. The first type resembles a regular non-folding phone, which can be unfolded into a larger tablet-like device. The second type is similar to the classic Motorola Razr clamshell phones, where a normal-sized phone can be folded in half to become more compact and pocketable. Although both use the same screen and hinge technology, they cater to different needs.
Mobile Waiting on an iPhone upgrade? Now is the time to pounce, as the newest additions to Apple's legendary roster were confirmed at its September 2023 event. The belles of the ball this year have to be the upgraded iPhone 15 and iPhone 15 Plus models, which have finally received the design update the iPhone 14 Pro and iPhone 14 Pro Max received last year. Now equipped with the Dynamic Island across the hole-punch selfie camera, the gulf between the iPhone and iPhone Pro has lessened again.
If you're eagerly awaiting your upgrade, or if this is your first iPhone, you'll be wanting to keep it safe. Smartphones tend to be with us throughout our day, and that means they can fall prey to any one of a number of hazards. Bumps, drops, even scratches from sharing your pocket with keys or coins; the list is near endless. The last thing you want is for your new phone to end up scratched, chipped, or even completely broken. Thankfully, a good protective case can stop that from happening. Here are some of the best Apple iPhone 15 cases you can buy right now.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
