Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Phones Best Tablets Tesla Phone Download Android 14 Best Android Phones Home Mobile Products Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? The best OnePlus 11 cases: top 5 cases you need to buy By Mark Jansen Close OnePlus is back, and it's brought an incredible device with it. The OnePlus 11 has kicked off 2023 in a very strong way, and is really setting a high bar for everyone else to follow. A flagship-level Snapdragon 8 Gen 2 processor combines with 16GB of RAM, a beautiful design, and a revamped Hasselblad-tuned camera module that's as capable as it is huge. With prices starting at $699, you also don't have to break the bank to buy one of the best phones in 2023.
But even with the low price for a flagship smartphone, the OnePlus 11 isn't a phone you'll want to throw around. If you want your phone to make it through to your next upgrade without chips, cracks, or breakages, then it's worth looking at some protective options. A good case or cover can really keep your smartphone safe, shielding it from bumps, scratches, and drops. Some cases even bring extra utility to your smartphone, adding wallet capabilities, kickstands, and other useful features. Here are some of the best OnePlus 11 cases you can buy! Image used with permission by copyright holder Official OnePlus Sandstone Case Best official OnePlus 11 case Understated and subtle design Excellent grip from sandstone texture Good protection Could be more protective We'll kick things off with a classic: OnePlus' official Sandstone case. The Sandstone case has been around since the very beginning of OnePlus, and it's always great to see it back for each OnePlus phone. It's a dual-layer case, using soft TPU and hard polycarbonate (PC) to ward off scratches and absorb the energy from drops, but the real selling point is the sandstone texture. This gritty texture feels great in the hand, and lends the case an awful lot of extra grip, helping you keep your phone in your hand.
It's not going to be the most protective case on this list, but it still provides good protection, looks nice, feels great, and is an excellent everyday case. While the price isn't exactly rock-bottom, it's not bad for an officially branded product.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Foluu Clear Bumper Case Best clear OnePlus 11 case Clear case Corner bumpers for drop protection Added grip Bumpers add extra bulk The OnePlus 11 is a gorgeous device, and a clear case allows you to show that design off while also adding protection. This TPU case from Foluu is thin and flexible, but also offers protection you might not normally see from a clear case. For example, extended bumpers on the corners help to divert and disperse shock from drops and bumps. It's only TPU though, so you won't get the extra protection offered with the addition of a hard PC material.
The price is excellent, making up for the bulk added with the extended corners. While you'll get extra protection from a bigger, more rugged case, this one functions very well as an everyday clear case that lets you show off your new phone's style.
The best iPhone 15 case Black Friday deals you can buy now The best Android tablets in 2023: the 10 best ones you can buy The best folding phones in 2023: the 6 best you can buy Image used with permission by copyright holder Clatuk Marble Slim Style Case Best stylish OnePlus 11 case Strong style with different variants Good protection Great price Design may be too much for some Stylish cases that make a strong fashion statement have been mainstays of phone cases since the first cell phones hit the market — and this case from Clatuk really brings the style. The Marble Slim case lives up to its name, offering a number of marble-style designs in four slightly different variants, all of which look great. The Apathy Gold is our favorite, but honestly, we'd be happy with any of them.
There shouldn't be beauty without brawn where cases are concerned, and the Marble Slim gives you both. The slim TPU protects your OnePlus 11 against scratches and dirt, while the extended corner airbags help to disperse shock well. Those airbags add a bit of bulk to the case, and may make it harder to quickly slip your phone into your pocket. The case boosts grip and provides good protection though, and it's available at a great price, so it's easy to forgive these small issues.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Latercase Cyber Edition Case Best thin OnePlus 11 case Handmade from Kevlar Durable matte finish Thin and lightweight Expensive It's an expensive case for sure, but given that Latercase's Cyber Edition case is made from actual Kevlar, that high price is somewhat justified. The Kevlar is lightweight, but extremely strong, giving this case excellent protective qualities without adding extra bulk or weight to your OnePlus 11.
It offers raised edges, keeps your display and camera lenses from resting on surfaces, and prevents scratches from accumulating over time. Even better, it's also fully compatible with wireless charging. As mentioned, it's an expensive case, but the carbon fiber design is good-looking and futuristic, and those protective qualities are worth paying for.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Armor-X Slim Shockproof Case with Key Mount & Carabiner Best rugged OnePlus 11 case Strong protection Additional accessories included Clear back and subtle style Accessories add a lot of extra bulk If you're the adventurous sort, clumsy, or just like rugged cases, then Armor-X's OnePlus 11 case may be the cover for you. It's a tough, rugged case made from a potent combination of materials, with a hard back PC cover supplementing a shock-absorbing TPU bumper. Airbags in the corners add further drop protection and raised edges keep the display and camera lenses elevated and safe when the phone's been laid down.
The accessories really make this one special, though. It comes with a carabiner and strap holder, an expandable toolbox, and the ability to work with Armor-X's X-Mount system, so you can attach the case to an optional arm mount, bike mount, or car mount. That amount of utility it does mean the case can get quite large when the accessories are in use. But if they're useful to you, then it's worth the extra bulk.
Editors' Recommendations The best Samsung Galaxy S23 Plus cases: 21 you can’t ignore The best tablets in 2023: top 11 tablets you can buy now The best Android phones in 2023: the 16 best ones you can buy These are the 11 best iPhone chargers you can buy in 2023 The best iPads in 2023: the 5 best ones you should buy Best Products OnePlus Mobile The Google Pixel 8 has finally arrived, and if you are one of the many who have bought it, it’s high time to invest in a quality phone case to safeguard your device. A brand new phone is delicate and highly prone to damage, which can lead to a significant replacement cost. Purchasing a phone case is a wise decision to ensure the safety of your phone right from day one.
There are a variety of cases available on the market from some of the biggest brands that offer great protective features. Here, we have compiled a list of 15 of the best Google Pixel 8 cases that are currently available.
Mobile If you're an Android fan who's looking for phone deals, you can't go wrong with the OnePlus 11. The smartphone is among the most popular choices in the market right now, and if you're interested, we've rounded up the top sources for discounts when buying the mobile device. It's highly recommended that you hurry with your purchase from your chosen retailer or carrier though, because these offers may change sooner than you think.
OnePlus 11 deals at OnePlus You can currently buy the OnePlus 11 with 8GB of RAM and 128GB of storage for $600 from OnePlus, down $100 from its original price of $700, while the OnePlus 11 with 16GB of RAM and 256GB of storage is on sale for $650, for savings of $150 on its original price of $800. Buying from OnePlus gets you a free gift -- the OnePlus Buds Z2 wireless earbuds.
Mobile Amazon has some great phone deals for anyone who's been keen to buy a OnePlus 11 in recent times. Both the 8GB/128GB and the 16GB/256GB models have been reduced for a limited time only. The 8GB/128GB model is down to $600 with a $100 saving from $700, while the 16GB/256GB model is down to $650 reduced from $800 so you save $150 off the usual price. Anyone interested to learn more should keep reading. Alternatively, simply hit the respective buy button below if you know this is the one for you.
Why you should buy the OnePlus 11 The OnePlus 11 is a return to form for the company. It has an eye-catching design with its smooth glass, unusually shaped camera module, and a textured alert slider that makes it feel more tactile than most of the best phones around. It's slim and lightweight too which is always good to see, even if it does offer only IP64 water resistance and isn't particularly durable.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
