Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Google Pixel 7 Pro Deals Google Pixel 7a Deals Samsung Galaxy Z Fold 5 Deals Samsung Galaxy Z Flip 5 Deals iPhone 15 Pro Max Deals Samsung Galaxy S23 Ultra Deals Google Pixel Fold Deals Home Mobile Deals Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Best OnePlus 11 deals: Save $100 on the Android phone By Aaron Mamiit Close Andy Boxall / Digital Trends If you’re an Android fan who’s looking for phone deals , you can’t go wrong with the OnePlus 11.
 The smartphone is among the most popular choices in the market right now, and if you’re interested, we’ve rounded up the top sources for discounts when buying the mobile device. It’s highly recommended that you hurry with your purchase from your chosen retailer or carrier though, because these offers may change sooner than you think.
OnePlus 11 deals at OnePlus OnePlus 11 deals at Amazon OnePlus 11 deals at Best Buy Should you buy the OnePlus 11? OnePlus 11 deals at OnePlus Nadeem Sarwar / Digital Trends You can currently buy the OnePlus 11 with 8GB of RAM and 128GB of storage for $600 from OnePlus, down $100 from its original price of $700, while the OnePlus 11 with 16GB of RAM and 256GB of storage is on sale for $650, for savings of $150 on its original price of $800. Buying from OnePlus gets you a free gift — the OnePlus Buds Z2 wireless earbuds.
OnePlus 11 deals at Amazon Phil Nickinson / Digital Trends The OnePlus 11 with 8GB of RAM and 128GB of storage is available from Amazon for just $600, for savings of $100 on its original price of $700, while the model with 16GB of RAM and 256GB of storage is available for only $650, following a $150 discount on its sticker price of $800. These are unlocked versions of the smartphone , so they will work with any compatible carrier.
OnePlus 11 deals at Best Buy Best Buy If you want to get the OnePlus 11 from Best Buy, the retailer is offering the 128GB model at $500 for $200 in savings and the 256GB model at $600 for $200 in savings. These unlocked smartphones are immediately activated to work with your preferred carrier.
Should you buy the OnePlus 11? Andy Boxall/Digital Trends / Digital Trends There’s no other way to say it — the OnePlus 11 is a beautiful smartphone.
 The smooth glass is tantalizing, the uniquely-shaped camera module makes an otherwise ordinary design look so much more interesting, and the textured alert slider adds personality through much-needed physical interaction.
The OnePlus 11 provides amazingly smooth performance with its Qualcomm Snapdragon 8 Gen 2 processor, and with moderate use, you’ll squeeze two full days out of its 5,000 mAh battery. OnePlus and Hasselblad worked together on the OnePlus 11 ’s camera software to make the most out of the 50MP main camera, 48MP wide-angle camera, and 32MP Portrait Tele camera. The smartphone runs on OxygenOS 13 , and the OnePlus 11 is the first model to fall under the brand’s commitment of four years of major Android OS updates and five years of security updates.
Our OnePlus 11 versus OnePlus 10T comparison tags the OnePlus 11 as the runaway winner, for reasons such as the more premium materials, the upgraded processor, and the improved cameras. The OnePlus 10T was a disappointment, but the OnePlus 11 is a return to form for one of the most beloved brands in the smartphone industry.
Editors' Recommendations Best iPad Black Friday deals: iPad Mini, iPad Air, iPad Pro, and more Oura Black Friday deal knocks $100 off the smart ring Google Pixel Black Friday deals: Pixel 8, Pixel Watch, Pixel Buds and more The best Samsung tablet Black Friday deals — from only $100 Best refurbished Apple Black Friday deals on AirPods, iPads, iPhones, and more Deals Cheapest Prices OnePlus Mobile Black Friday deals mean plenty of chances to save big on new gadgets you might want such as a new Fitbit. Fitbits are one of the best ways to track all your steps, calories burned, and all kinds of other things so you can work towards becoming the best you that you can be. Throughout the year, there are plenty of Fitbit deals around but things get extra special during the holidays season. We've picked out some of the best Fitbit Black Friday deals around below, some that rival the best Black Friday Apple Watch deals and Garmin Watch Black Friday deals. Further down, we've also looked at what you need to know about them so you choose the right one for you this Black Friday.
Best Fitbit Black Friday deals Fitbit Ace 3 -- Mobile For active tech fans, a Garmin Watch is near essential. The best Garmin Watches are generally more robust than the average smartwatch and they're designed with an active lifestyle in mind. That means better navigation features, better tracking of whatever it is you're doing, and even training plans to help you perfect that marathon you're aiming towards. Some of the best smartwatches around for avid runners, swimmers, or hikers, it's great to see some awesome Black Friday deals pop up for those seeking Garmin watches. We've picked out the very best Black Friday smartwatch deals around and listed them below.
Best Garmin Watch Black Friday deal Garmin Forerunner 255 GPS Smartwatch -- $250, was $350 The Garmin Forerunner 255 GPS Smartwatch is primarily a running watch and perfect for helping you train for your next big race. Not only does it tell you how far and how hard to run but its training plans also encourage you to rest, planning out periods of time for recovery. An impressive 14 days of battery life in smartwatch mode or up to 30 hours in GPS mode mean no need to charge so often compared to regular smartwatches.
Mobile If you already own the new Apple iPhone 15 or any of its variants but you're still stuck with a basic case, it's highly recommended that you take advantage of this year's Black Friday deals to enjoy some savings on a much-needed upgrade. Not only should you be providing the necessary protection for your iPhone 15 to keep it unscathed, but it would be a huge bonus to place it in a case that looks stylish and matches your personality. However, there's a problem -- there are thousands of iPhone 15 case deals that are available for Black Friday, so it's going to be very hard to narrow down your choices. That won't stop us from trying though, so you should read on.
Best iPhone 15 case Black Friday deal For serious protection without making your iPhone 15 too heavy, you should go for the OtterBox Commuter Series, which is on sale in Amazon's early Black Friday deals for $35 instead of $40. The $5 discount may not look like much, but it's a welcome bonus for what we've tagged as the best rugged case in our roundup of the best iPhone 15 cases. It's capable of withstanding three times the military standards for drop protection with a hybrid dual-layer construction that combines recycled rubber with a rigid outer shell, but it stays slim and lightweight so your iPhone 15 won't feel like a brick in your hands. We're not sure if this lowered price will remain online through to the shopping holiday, so you should think about making the purchase right now.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
