Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Phones Best Tablets Tesla Phone Download Android 14 Best Android Phones Home Mobile Features Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? I adore the OnePlus 11 camera — but not for the reason you think By Jesse Hollington Close There’s little doubt that cameras are among the most important selling points of today’s best phones.
 Apple, Samsung, Google, and others trade on the value of their camera technology — from the hardware lenses and sensors to the computational photography AI features. And almost without fail, they reserve their very best cameras for their premium flagship smartphones.
Many faces of smartphone camera designs Why the OnePlus 11 gets its camera so right It’s somewhat ironic that as important as these cameras are for setting each phone apart, most companies slap them rather unceremoniously onto the back of their devices without much style or panache.
Andrew Martonik/Digital Trends From a design perspective, there’s been a trend toward either minimizing the camera array — as if the designers would love to find a way to pretend it isn’t there — or just slapping on a bulky camera bump that often feels jarringly out of place.
Granted, there’s an argument to be made for minimalism. Samsung’s new Galaxy S23 gives us a taste of that concept with its three protruding lenses that now stand on their own without a camera bump.
However, as with the Galaxy S23 Ultra , they still sit there feeling uninspired. Nothing about these designs suggests that Samsung is proud of its camera system, despite the impressive hardware specs of the cameras themselves.
Apple iPhone 14 Pro Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Apple is a perfect example of going in the other direction. There’s no doubt the camera module on the iPhone 14 Pro makes its presence known in a big way.
Fans of the iPhone have learned to accept the camera bump, but looking at it objectively, it’s hard to see it as anything other than a blemish on what could otherwise be an exquisite look.
Many faces of smartphone camera designs Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Of course, not every company shows this sort of inferiority complex when it comes to its smartphone cameras. Some choose to embrace the camera module as an integral part of the design rather than something bolted on as an afterthought.
For example, Google does this with its modern Pixel phones, which have adopted a camera bar rather than a camera bump. It’s a unique design that sets the Pixel apart from just about any other smartphone on the market. There’s also a practical element to the design: unlike most smartphones, an uncased Pixel 7 Pro won’t rock around awkwardly when you lie it on its back.
Julian Chokkattu/Digital Trends Samsung toyed with a similar concept for the Galaxy S10 lineup in 2019, but the design clearly didn’t stick as it had moved to a more traditional corner bump by the following year.
Julian Chokkattu/Digital Trends We’ve also seen other interesting designs from niche smartphone models, such as Red’s Hydrogen One and the Nokia 9 PureView.
 Sadly, the camera designs were probably the most remarkable thing about those phones.
Huawei Mate 50 Pro Andy Boxall/Digital Trends The recent Huawei Mate 50 also goes with a rounded and centered camera module, and I have to give props to Huawei for trying something different — but elegant it’s not.
From uninspired camera designs to inventive ideas that don’t quite stick, there’s often a lot to be desired from the aesthetics of a smartphone’s rear camera housing. Thankfully, the OnePlus 11 changes that.
Why the OnePlus 11 gets its camera so right OnePlus 11 Andy Boxall/Digital Trends This year, OnePlus got my attention with the OnePlus 11 — and not just because the OnePlus 11 camera gives the iPhone 14 Pro a run for its money.
 The cameras in OnePlus’s flagship models have always piqued my interest, thanks to the company’s collaboration with Hasselblad.
 However, while the OnePlus design has gotten more classy and refined over the past few years, the camera array has retained the cliche squared-off look of most of its competitors.
That’s not to say that the camera bump on the OnePlus 10 Pro didn’t make a statement. It was as big and bold as Apple’s iPhone 14 Pro bump, yet more attractive and flowing seamlessly into the OnePlus design. However, the statement it made still wasn’t that different from most of its rivals.
OnePlus 10 Pro (left) and OnePlus 11 (right) Andy Boxall/Digital Trends This year, OnePlus has decided to get more creative with the look of the OnePlus 11, moving to a rounded camera module that feels like it finally deserves to have the name Hasselblad stamped onto it.
It’s an opinionated design, to be sure, but as someone who cut his photographic teeth many years ago on a Hasselblad 500C/M , I quite like it. There’s a certain nostalgia to it that feels more “right” to me than OnePlus’ earlier attempts at this collaborative branding.
Most importantly, it changes things up and clearly sets the OnePlus 11 apart. It’s unmistakably something different, and it could easily become the signature look for the company’s flagship phones if OnePlus embraces this as its new normal.
Joe Maring/Digital Trends In the end, that may be the biggest problem with the look of the cameras on modern smartphones. While companies are doing everything they can to set themselves apart in camera performance, few are doing anything to create distinctive and inspired designs — and that’s sad.
Until technology improves significantly, the laws of physics mean there will always be some protruding cameras, but that doesn’t mean designers can’t find a way to make them look both elegant and unique.
Editors' Recommendations OnePlus 12: news, rumored price, release date, and more The worst thing has happened to one of 2023’s best Android phones I tested the Pixel 8 Pro and iPhone 15 Pro. This one has the best camera The OnePlus 12 may fix one of the OnePlus 11’s biggest mistakes OnePlus is about to put the Google Pixel 8 Pro to shame Android Features Google Google Pixel OnePlus Mobile Android 14 is in the final stages of development, and its first stable version is set to release later this month. As a result, Android phone brands are starting to unleash previews of their upcoming software upgrades based on the Android 14 beta, allowing select users to try out forthcoming features before other people. After Samsung opened up One UI 6 beta for a limited number of devices earlier this month, OnePlus is giving us a peek at its upcoming OxygenOS 14 beta based on Android 14.
OnePlus' custom Android skin, OxygenOS, received a major overhaul last year after merging the codebase with the ColorOS interface offered by its parent company, Oppo. Our worst fears came true when OxygenOS 13, based on Android 13, was released last year. It received a radical design overhaul that most OnePlus purists deemed a downgrade that made it nearly indistinguishable from Oppo's ColorOS.
Mobile OnePlus Pad Go OnePlus OnePlus started its journey making fast phones that didn't cost an outrageous amount of money — a strategy that soon trickled down to earbuds and subsequently made its way to the tablet segment. The OnePlus Pad arrived in April, serving a sleek slate with a high-resolution 144Hz screen and a top-tier chip for a price lower than Apple’s entry-level iPad.
Mobile OnePlus is preparing to launch its next flagship phone in the coming months, but a fresh leak predicts an unpleasant surprise. A few weeks ago, purported renders of the OnePlus 12 depicted a phone that borrows heavily from the OnePlus 11 but adds a rectangular lens element at the back to fit a periscope-style telephoto camera.
Now, leaker OnLeaks (via MySmartPrice) has shared updated renders "based on pre-production unit pictures" that don't show any telephoto lens upgrade. Instead, we have three camera lenses with distinct circular lens inlets and a fourth cutout of the same size without any visible lens element on the camera island.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
