Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Phones Best Tablets Tesla Phone Download Android 14 Best Android Phones Home Mobile Reviews OnePlus 9 Pro review: The most dependable smartphone you can buy By Andy Boxall Close $969.00 All the power you could want A stunning screen Very fast wired and wireless charging Reliable, smooth, and quick software Hasselblad involvement isn't that noticeable At $969, it faces serious flagship competition The OnePlus 8 Pro launched in April 2020, and is only now being replaced by the OnePlus 9 Pro. A year in OnePlus world is an absolute age, as the company has usually released a refreshed “T” model six months into a model’s life span. But that’s not the case with the 8 Pro. All this extra time should mean that the OnePlus 9 Pro is something really special, right? Design Screen Camera Software and performance Battery and charging Price and availability Our take It’s the first OnePlus phone released in partnership with super-expensive camera brand Hasselblad, which has lent its expertise to the OnePlus 9 Pro’s camera, and that certainly sounds special. But otherwise, the OnePlus 9 Pro looks to be as dependable as we expect from OnePlus, which isn’t necessarily a bad thing, but can being dependable also be exciting? Let’s get into more detail.
One of my favorite Samsung features is coming to OnePlus phones The best Android tablets in 2023: the 10 best ones you can buy The best folding phones in 2023: the 6 best you can buy If you’re interested in the OnePlus 9, which is cheaper but not as technically capable as the 9 Pro, read our in-depth review.
Design Less sharp-edged, considerably shinier, and more than a little weightier, the OnePlus 9 Pro has a very different look and feel from the OnePlus 8 Pro. The lovely matte finish from the 8 Pro has been replaced by a high-gloss mirror finish, seen below in Morning Mist color, which is silver to you and me. It’s more comfortable to grip due to thicker, less tapered 8.7mm sides, but it feels much more substantial in the hand. It weighs 197 grams, with a slight bias toward the camera module, making it feel slightly top-heavy.
Andy Boxall/Digital Trends The in-display fingerprint sensor is set really low down on the screen compared to most other smartphones. It’s in the same position as the one on the Oppo Find X3 Pro , a comparison we’ll come back to when we talk about the screen later in this review. On the side is OnePlus’s signature, and always welcome, alert slider to silence notifications.
The camera module is in the top-left on the rear panel. It’s resplendent with Hasselblad’s branding and contains four cameras, a sensor, a flash, and a microphone. It’s not as individual-looking as the OnePlus 8 Pro, or the Samsung Galaxy S21+, but it is fairly flush against the body. It’s all neat and undeniably functional, but there’s not much character. This is a problem with the OnePlus 9 Pro’s look generally — it’s not unattractive, but it doesn’t have much identity either.
Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Perhaps this doesn’t matter to you, and build quality is more important. You’ve got no concerns here, as the aluminum chassis is sandwiched between two panels of Gorilla Glass, and it’s all very nicely made. There’s just about enough grip from the glass body, but it will slip around on some surfaces.
I have nothing against the OnePlus 9 Pro’s style and design, but it is a little generic. When the only aspect that really tells me it’s a OnePlus phone is the alert slider, you know the rest is too forgettable.
Screen OnePlus has never really nailed its designs, but it has rarely made a misstep when it comes to the screen. The 6.7-inch AMOLED screen has a 3,216 x 1,220-pixel resolution for a 525 pixel-per-inch density, and a variable refresh rate from between 1Hz and 120Hz. The sides have a less pronounced curve and more noticeable bezels (but only just) compared to the OnePlus 8 Pro, to help avoid unwanted screen activations. I’ve still found the screen to be highly reactive to side touches, and I often accidentally open the camera app or attempt to change the wallpaper just by holding the phone in my hand.
Previous Next 1 2 OnePlus 9 Pro Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Andy Boxall/Digital Trends It’s a beautiful screen, with rich colors and a natural tone that edges toward warm rather than cool, as well as spot-on contrast. By default, it’s set at an FHD+ resolution, but it’s worth taking the battery hit and having it at QHD+ when watching compatible videos. It’s just glorious. This K Choreo version of Iz*One’s Fiesta is packed with color and detail on the OnePlus 9 Pro’s screen.
How does it compare to the 8 Pro, which is itself no slouch in the visual department? It’s not better or worse, but it is different. The 8 Pro’s screen is a little more vibrant, while the 9 Pro’s is a tiny bit more natural, which does introduce some softness, resulting in the 8 Pro sometimes looking more detailed due to sharper and more defined edges. The 9 Pro’s screen is by no means a step forward over the 8 Pro. When you place it alongside the Oppo Find X3 Pro, it looks identical. The positioning of the in-display fingerprint sensor and hole-punch camera, as well as specs like 10-bit color depth and HDR10+, suggest it’s probably the same panel anyway.
Camera In our year of waiting for the OnePlus 9 Pro, the company has been working on the camera, which although good in the past, has not managed to surpass or sometimes even equal those of the competition. To change this, OnePlus is working with Hasselblad, a Scandinavian purveyor of mega-expensive cameras, and a company with a very rich photographic history.
 It’s a three-year partnership that begins with assistance on the software and will move to the pair collaborating on hardware in the future.
Andy Boxall/Digital Trends What does it mean for the OnePlus 9 Pro? The camera has a software-based feature called Natural Color Calibration with Hasselblad on board, which promises to make colors more “perceptually accurate,” according to the press blurb. Hasselblad has also worked on the Pro mode, so you get an orange shutter button, just like on a Hasselblad camera, and a specially recorded Hasselblad-style shutter button sound.
The biggest issue for me is understanding what Hasselblad has done in the camera.
Underwhelmed? I don’t blame you, but this is just the beginning of the partnership, and it will take time for a significant alteration to the OnePlus camera to happen, so we should keep expectations in check. That said, Hasselblad branding is slapped across the camera module, and plenty of noise has been made about the link-up already, so it better do something.
 Prior to release, OnePlus issued a series of software updates that consistently improved the camera ability, so while I was lukewarm about its performance in my initial review, it has gotten steadily better.
Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Before talking about the performance, here are the camera specs. The main camera uses a 48-megapixel custom Sony IMX789 sensor with an f/1.8 aperture and optical and electronic image stabilization. It’s joined by a 50MP f/2.2 aperture wide-angle camera and an 8MP f/2.4 telephoto camera with a 3.3x optical zoom. There’s also a 2MP monochrome camera, which can be used on its own, along with a dual-LED flash and a 16MP selfie camera.
The OnePlus 9 Pro’s camera does take better photos than the OnePlus 8 Pro, and after the updates, it’s much more consistent too, with better balance, more color pop, and a lovely natural tone. I’ve grown to like the photos taken by the OnePlus 9 Pro, but the problem with understanding what Hasselblad has done in the camera remains. The Natural Color Calibration is on all the time, so any inherent “Hasselbladness” in the photos is entirely lost on me, as someone without experience of a Hasselblad camera.
Previous Next 1 10 Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Andy Boxall/Digital Trends OnePlus 9 Pro 3x Zoom Andy Boxall/Digital Trends OnePlus 9 Pro Portrait Mode Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Andy Boxall/Digital Trends To really try and see what the OnePlus 9 Pro’s camera is like, I’ve spent more time than usual comparing its photos to those taken by other cameras. This highlights how difficult it is to spot something that may make the OnePlus 9 Pro’s photos special. The above gallery shows photos before the software update, while the gallery below shows some examples taken after the main software update, which arrived just before the phone’s launch.
Previous Next 1 6 Image used with permission by copyright holder Image used with permission by copyright holder Image used with permission by copyright holder Image used with permission by copyright holder Image used with permission by copyright holder Image used with permission by copyright holder I do like the photos taken with the OnePlus 9 Pro, but if I didn’t know Hasselblad worked on the phone with OnePlus, I wouldn’t be looking any deeper at all, simply because it’s a good camera and nothing more. It’s better than previous OnePlus cameras, certainly, and the team is clearly working to improve it all the time, but the efforts of the two teams working together have yet to be fully realized.
Software and performance OxygenOS version 11 with Android 11 is installed, and it’s superb. It’s essentially the same software seen on the OnePlus 8T , so don’t expect new features to go along with the new phone. Not that this matters, as OxygenOS is always a joy. Whether it’s the new always-on screen, the effective dark mode, the smooth menus, the beautiful fonts and overall design, the clear notifications, or deeper memory and power management tools, the software is among the very best you can use on an Android smartphone.
Previous Next 1 6 Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Andy Boxall/Digital Trends OnePlus 9 Pro with Always On display feature Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Andy Boxall/Digital Trends The Qualcomm Snapdragon 888 processor provides all the power you could want — there were absolutely no performance issues for me — and there is a choice of either 8GB or 12GB of RAM, with 128GB or 256GB of storage space. It’s excellent for gaming.
Genshin Impact plays very well, with only a slight frame rate drop during busy battle scenes, although the phone does get warm to the touch when playing for long periods. I’ve been using the 12GB/256GB model, but can’t imagine I’d notice any difference in speed if I used the 8GB model. However, there’s no expandable storage space, so you must consider if you’ll need the extra built-in storage in the future before buying this phone.
Early problems with Wi-Fi range, and WhatsApp video call performance, have also been cured through software updates just before launch, and call quality has been uniformly very good. And although the in-display fingerprint sensor is set quite low down on the screen, it’s lightning-fast. Special mention should go to the haptics as well, which are even more subtle and tactile than on the OnePlus 8 Pro.
Battery and charging It’s a 4,500mAh cell taking care of all the visuals, gaming, and camera use on the OnePlus 9T. I’ve found it’s good for a day’s worth of use, but not much longer, with a charge needed each night almost regardless of the day’s activities. Ninety minutes of Genshin Impact consumed 25% of the battery, so hardcore gamers will need to charge even more often.
Andy Boxall/Digital Trends The OnePlus 9 Pro uses the proprietary Warp Charge 65T fast charge system, so you get a charger and a USB Type-C cable in the box, which must be used to get the fastest speeds. OnePlus says it’ll go from zero to 100% in 28 minutes, so can it? Almost, yes. In my tests, it took 31 minutes. I’m not going to quibble over three minutes. It’s still faster than most of the competition. Helpfully, like Warp Charge 65, the Warp Charge 65T block pumps 45 watts into other gadgets that can take this amount of charging power.
OnePlus’ Warp Charge 50 wireless charging system has been given a speed boost, but you need to buy OnePlus’ own $70/70 British pounds wireless charging dock to take advantage of it. It promises to deliver a full charge in just 43 minutes, and in my tests, it easily manages this. Unlike the previous version, the USB Type-C cable is not built into the charger, but you do need to use OnePlus’s own charging block and cable to get full speed. The cable, not the block, is included in the box, but at about a meter long, any versatility gain by not fixing it to the charger ends up being lost.
Price and availability The OnePlus 9 Pro costs $969 for the 8GB/128GB model, or $1,069 for the 12GB/256GB model. It’s available to pre-order on March 26 and set for release on April 2. In the U.K. the OnePlus 9 Pro costs 829 British pounds for the 8GB/128GB model, and 929 pounds for the 12GB/256GB version. The phone will be available to pre-order in the U.K. on March 23.
Our take There’s both everything I want and also everything I unfortunately have come to expect from a OnePlus phone in the OnePlus 9 Pro. There’s the top mobile processor at the moment, along with an excellent screen, super-smooth and reliable software, and fast battery charging, which are all the things I want and the stuff OnePlus can do in its sleep. A camera that almost, but not quite, lives up to expectations, an acceptable but not inspiring design, and a price that’s slightly higher than I really want it to be are aspects I’ve come to expect from OnePlus over the past year or so. It’s business as usual.
If you buy one, you’ll be very satisfied, but you may feel it’s missing something truly special.
I love the reliability of OnePlus phones. Using one on a daily basis is entirely hassle-free, and the combination of OxygenOS and masses of power means you’ll struggle to find a better overall smartphone user experience today. However, the extent of Hasselblad’s involvement in the camera is too hard to pinpoint right now, so it doesn’t quite have that special extra that makes me tingle with excitement when I take photos, but there’s potential for the future.
OnePlus fans will be happy with the OnePlus 9 Pro, and while the camera is definitely an improvement over the OnePlus 8 Pro’s, everything else is only a small generational step up, so upgrading from the 8 Pro isn’t really worth it unless you’re really disappointed by its camera. For those who aren’t a committed OnePlus fan, it’s a harder sell, as some aggressive pricing from Apple and Samsung this year means better smartphones can be had for less money. If you buy one, you’ll be very satisfied, as it follows OnePlus’s tried-and-tested, dependable phone formula, but you may feel it’s missing something truly special.
Is there a better alternative? The OnePlus 9 Pro faces serious competition in the U.S.. At the time of writing, the Samsung Galaxy S21 Ultra costs $1,000 from Amazon, and it’s the better purchase due to its superb camera, beautiful screen, and overall performance. The Apple iPhone 12 Pro remains a fantastic purchase if you’re not set on an Android device, and at $1,000, it’s equally as competitively priced as the Galaxy S21 Ultra.
In the U.K. the phone is a better value, as it’s cheaper than both of the above devices, and cheaper even than the 950 British pound Galaxy S21+ 5G.
 It’s significantly cheaper than the 1,100 pound Oppo Find X3 Pro , but even the 8GB/128GB version can’t match the Xiaomi Mi 11 5G’s value at 750 pounds.
How long will it last? The OnePlus 9 Pro’s powerful processor, excellent screen, 5G connectivity, and fast charging means it will give you at least two years of use before you’d even consider upgrading. Three years is entirely feasible if you’re not a hardcore gamer. The phone has an IP68 water-resistance rating, but it is made from glass so you may want to put it in a case.
OnePlus says the OnePlus 9 will receive two years of new Android updates, plus an additional one year of security updates, making it one of the better companies in terms of dealing with crucial software updates.
Should you buy it? Yes, it’s an excellent smartphone, but for all the promise of the Hasselblad partnership, it still lacks that something special, especially since the price is higher than that of some of the best smartphones you can buy today.
Editors' Recommendations OnePlus 12: news, rumored price, release date, and more Here’s our first look at OnePlus’ next Apple Watch killer The best Android phones in 2023: the 16 best ones you can buy The OnePlus 12 may fix one of the OnePlus 11’s biggest mistakes OnePlus is about to put the Google Pixel 8 Pro to shame Android OnePlus Phone Reviews Product Reviews Mobile Apple's iPad is undoubtedly one of the most popular tablets on the market right now. There are several different models to choose from, but no matter which one you go with, you'll be getting one of the best tablets out there. Still, Apple provides an abundance of choice here, and with so many different versions — and nearly annual updates — it can be tricky to know which one is the best to get.
All of Apple's iPads are pretty great, and they're each designed with a slightly different audience in mind, so it's hard to pick a single one as "the best." That's why we've broken the list down by categories; after all, there's an ideal iPad for nearly every situation. Whether you're looking for the best overall iPad, the best iPad on a budget, something in the middle of the pack, or even the best small iPad, we've got you covered.
Mobile The Google Pixel 8 has finally arrived, and if you are one of the many who have bought it, it’s high time to invest in a quality phone case to safeguard your device. A brand new phone is delicate and highly prone to damage, which can lead to a significant replacement cost. Purchasing a phone case is a wise decision to ensure the safety of your phone right from day one.
There are a variety of cases available on the market from some of the biggest brands that offer great protective features. Here, we have compiled a list of 15 of the best Google Pixel 8 cases that are currently available.
Mobile Google’s Made by Google event has come and gone, giving us a new lineup of Pixel devices — including the Google Pixel 8, Google Pixel 8 Pro, and Google Pixel Watch 2.
There’s a lot to love about the Google Pixel 8 Pro, especially. It features a new Super Actua display with up to 2,400 nits peak brightness, making it one of the brightest displays on a smartphone yet. You also get the new Tensor G3 chip, a 50MP main camera with 48MP ultrawide and 48MP telephoto cameras, and pro controls for the camera app.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
