Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Phones Best Tablets Tesla Phone Download Android 14 Best Android Phones Home Mobile News ColorOS 13 is coming in August — and it’s better than expected By Andy Boxall Close Android 13 is coming to Oppo phones in the guise of ColorOS 13, the company’s custom version of Google’s latest mobile operating system. The headline change is a new design style that’s called “Aquamorphic” due to the team taking inspiration for its look from water. It can be seen throughout with new themes, color palettes, and icon shapes.
New design and features Trying ColorOS 13 Phones and schedule New design and features ColorOS 13 adds a new, larger app folder option so you can view and activate apps directly without having to open the folder first. Activating the expanded mode is simple and takes just a long press on the smaller, standard folder. The Quick Settings view has been updated to work in landscape, where it shows the usual options on the left of the screen and media controls on the right. If you own an Oppo Pad Air tablet, ColorOS 13 introduces a copy and paste feature to exchange basic information between it and your ColorOS 13 phone, but it doesn’t support file transfers.
Andy Boxall/Digital Trends There are a few new Always-on screen options, with the Insight screen from OnePlus’ OxygenOS making an appearance, along with a Bitmoji screen and one with Spotify integration too. This has made its way across to OxygenOS already.
 You can also expect a new wallpaper called Blossom, which provides information on how much screen time you’ve logged, and a timer to help keep track of it. Oppo has also worked on making the transitions look more natural, and to make the overall design more accessible and inclusive.
This applies to features like the one-handed mode and the split-screen multitasking mode, both of which are easy to activate and work really well. Less helpful is the Smart Sidebar, where a small window containing various apps can be swiped in from the edge of the screen. It’s handy when you want to use an app as a floating window, but it’s pointless otherwise. The same goes for Shelf, a feature also seen in OxygenOS. It’s a slide-down section like the Notification Shade and is nothing more than an annoyance. If you’re right-handed, it’s too easily activated instead of the notification panel. Thankfully, it can be turned off.
Android does this one thing so much better than iOS, and it drives me crazy Wear OS 3 is finally coming to these older smartwatches this month The best thing about Android 13 isn’t a new feature or setting — it’s something else Trying ColorOS 13 We’ve spent some time with a beta of ColorOS 13 installed on a Find X5 Pro , and the good news is it’s an improvement over ColorOS 12. The Aquamorphic style gives the design a more cohesive look and flow, plus it uses Android’s Material You color picker to match the system colors to your wallpaper.
Previous Next 1 4 Split-screen multitasking Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Floating window over multitasking Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Floating window Andy Boxall/Digital Trends One-handed mode Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Transitions are smooth, and for the most part, there are fewer interruptions too. Before now, it was always a fraught first few days with ColorOS as it constantly bothered you with system notifications, but this has been minimized with ColorOS 13. Oppo still preinstalls many apps, though, including various games, a livestreaming app, LinkedIn, Amazon, and a wealth of its own apps.
Several features have not been enabled in the beta yet, including the Blossom wallpaper and landscape orientation Control Center, so we haven’t been able to test them out. Despite being a beta, the software has been reliable, but notifications haven’t always synced with the always-on screen, although this is an issue carried over (and obviously not fixed) from ColorOS 12.
Previous Next 1 4 Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Smart sidebar Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Special feature modes Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Oppo’s ColorOS 13 does appear to be a far better-designed, more user-friendly piece of software than ColorOS 12. However, not everyone will be a fan of Oppo’s approach to its mobile operating system, as we found out trying OxygenOS 13 , which is almost identical to it.
Phones and schedule The Oppo Find X5 and Find X5 Pro are first on the list to get the update, and it’s penciled in for an August arrival The Oppo Find N folding smartphone should also receive the update this month too. In September, the Find X3 Pro and Reno8 Pro are on the list, followed by a range of Oppo phones, including the Reno8, Reno7 Pro, Reno7, and the A77, A76, and F21 Pro.
Before the end of 2022, Oppo intends to send the update to other Find X5, Find X3, Reno8, Reno6, and Reno5 phones. Then in 2023, the Oppo Pad Air tablet will lead the way for other A and F series phones. Oppo says ColorOS 13 will represent its largest-ever software update rollout.
Editors' Recommendations Wear OS 4 is coming to your smartwatch this year — here’s what’s new My iPhone 14 Pro camera is ruined, and it’s all Apple’s fault 7 ColorOS 13 features that make me want to use Oppo phones again Android 13: Everything we know about Google’s big OS update I tried OxygenOS 13, and it’s everything I feared it would be Android Google Tech News Mobile Earlier this month, OnePlus revealed the latest iteration of its custom user interface -- OxygenOS 13 -- along with the launch of the OnePlus 10T. The company announced that an open beta of the OS would soon be available for the OnePlus 10 Pro, followed by the 10T sometime later.
Now, as per a OnePlus Community post, the first Open Beta of the OxygenOS 13 is out for the OnePlus 10 Pro smartphone. Here are some interesting new changes you'd see in the new OS.
New design language Mobile The open beta version of OnePlus’s next operating system, OxygenOS 13, will be available this month. What makes it exciting is it’s built on Google’s Android 13, and will be one of the first opportunities to try out the next major overhaul of the mobile operating system. However, while we know OxygenOS 13 is coming very soon and the devices getting it, we don’t know much about it or its look yet.
Gary Chen, Head of OS Product at OnePlus, had this to say: Mobile If you own an Android phone, you may have noticed that the iPhone gets new features from your favorite apps before Android devices do -- or, in some cases, not at all. Discord is changing that by switching to React Native for its Android app.
According to a blog post written by Discord's product team, React Native is an open-source UI software framework that will allow the company to release new features across all platforms simultaneously. In other words, Discord users who have Android will receive all the new features the company introduces at the same the iOS app does instead of waiting for them to come weeks or months after iOS.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
