Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Phones Best Tablets Tesla Phone Download Android 14 Best Android Phones Home Mobile Features I tried OxygenOS 13, and it’s everything I feared it would be By Joe Maring Close OxygenOS 13 is here. Well, sort of.
OnePlus released the OxygenOS 13 open beta for the OnePlus 10 Pro on August 9, giving users a chance to get an early glimpse at what the future of OnePlus software looks like.
A slow, heavy, and clunky interface Feature overload at its finest Not addressing any of OxygenOS 12’s problems A quick word on Omoji OxygenOS, as you knew it, is no more Android betas are always an exciting thing, but there’s an especially high amount of anxiety surrounding OnePlus’s take on Android 13.
 Ever since OnePlus’s deeper integration with Oppo, the software on OnePlus phones has found itself in a concerning place. For years, OxygenOS was hailed for being fast, smooth, and free of unwanted clutter. But when the OnePlus 10 Pro shipped with OxygenOS 12, it was clear that OnePlus was ready to take a different approach.
Joe Maring/Digital Trends In February 2022, OnePlus promised that OxygenOS 13 would “retain its unique visual design” and shift back to a stock UI. And during its OnePlus 10T launch event earlier this month, OnePlus spent ample time assuring fans it was listening to feedback, taking notes, and was ready to make things right.
Now that I’ve had a chance to use OxygenOS 13 for myself, it’s obvious none of that was true.
OnePlus has big news for September 25 — but it’s not a folding phone iOS 17 could be a surprisingly big update — here’s what it may change How I learned to love the OnePlus 11’s controversial software A slow, heavy, and clunky interface With OxygenOS 11 and earlier versions, OnePlus’s software looked and felt like a tweaked version of stock Android.
OxygenOS 12 shifted away from the minimalistic approach , instead favoring heavier and clunkier design elements. Unfortunately, OxygenOS 13 only moves further in that direction.
OnePlus says it upgraded OxygenOS 13 with its “Quantum Animation Engine 4.0” and that much of the UI was inspired by water/nature. More accurately, OxygenOS 13 is — for all intents and purposes — the ColorOS software used on Oppo phones.
 This is seen with the redesigned Quick Settings panel, the app drawer, the Clock and Calculator apps, etc. Everywhere you look, OxygenOS 13 is a shell of its former self.
But it’s not just a matter of aesthetic preferences. While I personally prefer the simple design of OxygenOS 11 and older versions, OxygenOS 13 also feels worse. More specifically, it feels horribly sluggish.
When you go home after using an app, an animation shows the app floating back to your home screen — something every Android phone does. But the animation on OxygenOS 13 is stretched out to be noticeably longer than it is on OxygenOS 12 and 11. It doesn’t sound like a big deal, but it adds an extra beat of waiting for no apparent reason. The on-screen fingerprint sensor animation also takes longer to load, and when you do unlock the phone, a slower animation plays to take you to your home screen. It’s a lot of little things that give OxygenOS 13 a sense of heaviness. This was already a problem in OxygenOS 12, and OxygenOS 13 only makes it worse.
Previous Next 1 2 Quick Settings in OxygenOS 13 Joe Maring/Digital Trends Quick Settings in OxygenOS 12 Joe Maring/Digital Trends And, of course, there are the more glaring UI changes. The notification shade/Quick Settings now take up the entire screen when opened. Further, the layout of the Quick Settings has gotten a significant overhaul. I like the rotating sun that moves when you adjust the brightness, and being able to customize the two large/rectangle toggles is a nice touch. But once again, OnePlus is clearly favoring maximalism over minimalism. There’s now a media player widget to show whatever audio is currently playing on your phone. It’s handy when you’re listening to something, but even when you’re not, it’s still there — just taking up precious space for no good reason.
OxygenOS 13 also introduces new interfaces for the Clock, Files, Calculator, and Notes apps. They aren’t totally overhauled from their OxygenOS 12 versions, but they all look a bit chunkier.
But, most important of all, OxygenOS 13 removes the famous “1+” Easter egg from the Calculator app. If you want a simple way to summarize the direction OnePlus is heading with OxygenOS 13, there you go.
Feature overload at its finest And that’s just how OxygenOS 13 looks. The update also adds a suite of new features to OnePlus phones. Some people may find them useful, but in my limited testing, I’m struggling to get anything out of them.
Joe Maring/Digital Trends One such feature is Smart Sidebar. Similar to what’s available on Samsung and Motorola phones, Smart Sidebar allows you to swipe in from the edge of your screen to access customizable tools and app shortcuts. You can add a screenshot tool, screen recorder button, screen translate, and any app you’d like. There’s also seemingly no limit to how many you can add to the Smart Sidebar. Seems fine, right? Unfortunately, there’s a weird quirk to Smart Sidebar. If you open an app from it, the application always opens as a “flexible window” — another new feature in OxygenOS 13. Flexible windows allow you to open apps in a small window over whatever else you’re doing on your phone.
You can browse Reddit with a small Twitter window over it, watch a full-screen YouTube video with an Instagram window on top, etc.
Previous Next 1 2 Smart Sidebar in OxygenOS 13 Joe Maring/Digital Trends An app running as a flexible window in OxygenOS 13 Joe Maring/Digital Trends It’s fine, but I haven’t found the flexible windows to be any more useful than Android ’s standard split screen feature. Furthermore, being forced to open apps as a flexible window from the Smart Sidebar is a bewildering choice. You can turn a flexible window into a full-screen app, but only after tapping another button — taking away the convenience Smart Sidebar would have otherwise had.
Also new is something called Quick Return. In OxygenOS 13, OnePlus describes Quick Return as a feature that lets you “tap a tile to go back to the app in full screen or in a floating window.” The software gives a couple of examples, such as leaving a ride-hailing app after calling a car or when you die in a multiplayer game and are waiting for a respawn. In these scenarios, Quick Return lets you do other activities with your phone, keep an eye on what’s happening, and jump back to that app when you need to. The problem? My OnePlus 10 Pro shows that zero of my apps are compatible with Quick Return.
1.
Kid Space in OxygenOS 13 2.
Work Life Balance feature in OxygenOS 13 3.
Simple mode in OxygenOS 13 As you keep digging through OxygenOS 13, you’ll also find a new Kid Space, Simple mode, and a revamped Work Life Balance system. On the one hand, adding new functionality to your device is great. But so many of these features are things I’d likely completely ignore in daily use. They aren’t bad or damning to have around, but it also feels like OnePlus is loading OxygenOS 13 with features just for the sake of it.
Not addressing any of OxygenOS 12’s problems More so than anything else, what annoys me the most about OxygenOS 13 is its failure to address the complaints people raised with OxygenOS 12 — which there were plenty of! You still can’t edit individual app icons with the default launcher, touch responsiveness with the app drawer and lock screen notifications remain inconsistent, and you’re still constantly bombarded with prompts to agree to terms of use with virtually every feature/setting you open for the first time. If there’s something about OxygenOS 12 that annoys you, chances are it’s still here in OxygenOS 13.
A quick word on Omoji Lastly, I need to say something about Omoji. And, yes, it’s exactly what it sounds like. Omoji are cartoonish characters you can create in OxygenOS 13 that are animated using facial tracking from the front camera. You can change your Omoji’s skin, head, hair, eyes, nose, headwear, glasses, etc.
Joe Maring/Digital Trends Not only is the concept of Omoji just like Memoji on iOS , but the interface for creating one looks identical to Apple’s implementation. Seriously. Side by side, it’s nigh impossible to tell the two apart.
I&#39;ve gotta give OnePlus/Oppo credit where credit is due — this is the most blatant Memoji rip off I&#39;ve ever seen pic.twitter.com/E4YQjRSsd1 &mdash; Joe Maring (@JoeMaring1) August 10, 2022 Making things more comical is the implementation of Omoji. Facial tracking with the 10 Pro’s front camera is laughably bad, you can only use Omoji for your always-on display, and the option in the Settings app to edit your Omoji randomly appears and disappears with no rhyme or reason. It’s all pretty incredible.
OxygenOS, as you knew it, is no more To be fair to OnePlus, these are all impressions after a couple of days with the OxygenOS 13 beta.
OnePlus has outlined a list of known bugs on its community forum, and more will likely be discovered — and patched — in the coming weeks.
OxygenOS 12 (right) and ColorOS 12 (left) Andy Boxall/Digital Trends But my biggest problems with OxygenOS 13 have nothing to do with the bugs. My issues lie with the core idea of OxygenOS 13. From the various UI changes, slow animations, and the pile of questionable features, there’s nothing here to capture what made me fall in love with OxygenOS in the first place.
It’s not fun to write 1400 (mostly negative) words about OnePlus’s big software update of the year being such a huge disappointment. But, unfortunately, that’s where we’re at. We should have seen this coming ever since OnePlus and Oppo announced their merger. I’m not surprised about what OxygenOS 13 has come to, but as a die-hard OnePlus fan since the days of the OnePlus One , it also feels like losing an old friend. And I hate it.
Editors' Recommendations I tried Android 14 on my OnePlus 11 — and I’m not impressed I thought I would hate Apple’s VR headset, but I was wrong Android does this one thing so much better than iOS, and it drives me crazy Ranking all 16 iOS versions, from worst to best iOS 16 has ruined the best thing about my iPhone, and I hate it Features OnePlus Mobile It's hard to believe, but we're quickly inching toward the OnePlus 11. The phone is already available if you live in China, but for the rest of the world, we only have to wait until February 7 for OnePlus to host its big 'Cloud 11' launch event in India.
In anticipation of the OnePlus 11, I decided to bust out my OnePlus 10 Pro and see how it's holding up in early 2023. In short, there are a lot of things I still love about the phone, and it's admirable how great it feels a year later. But even more than that, using the OnePlus 10 Pro in 2023 reminded me of how some key things have changed. As a result, I'm more nervous than excited about what we'll get with the OnePlus 11. Let me explain.
Taking a step back with the design Mobile When Apple announced the iPhone 14 and iPhone 14 Pro devices, one of the big differences that set them apart was the display. The standard iPhone 14 wasn’t much different from the iPhone 13 before it, but the iPhone 14 Pro has the new Dynamic Island and an always-on display (AOD) feature.
For some of us, myself included, the AOD was a huge deal because Android phones have been doing it for a while now — Apple just finally joined the party.
Mobile For over a decade, Apple’s iPhone has largely remained the same in terms of interface and lack of customization. Though jailbreaking was a thing in the early days, the average person wouldn’t know how to do that, or even want to risk their device. If you were wanting customization on your smartphone, people would simply tell you to go to Android.
Apple surprised everyone when it launched iOS 14, which was the first version of iOS that allowed for some customization on the Home screen. With iOS 14, Apple let users add widgets to the Home screen, and it allowed custom app icons through the use of the Siri Shortcuts app. There were new customization features in iOS 15, but iOS 16 gave us the next step, which is Lock Screen personalization with new typefaces and text colors, as well as widgets.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
