Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Share Wi-Fi Password on iPhone How to Restart iPhone Screen Record on iPhone Back Up an iPhone Clear Cache on iPhone Share Location on iPhone Home Mobile Features Photographic Styles is the most underrated iPhone 14 camera feature you’re not using By Christine Romero-Chan Close For a lot of us, Apple’s iPhone is one of the best digital cameras that we own. Each year, Apple always improves the camera capabilities of the iPhone through both hardware and software. Even though this year we got the iPhone 14 Pro with a 48MP main camera, I want to put the spotlight on one of the more underrated software features that you may not be aware of.
What are Photographic Styles? Why Photographic Styles are so good How to set up Photographic Styles A subtle way to improve your photos without much work Photographic Styles was a feature that was introduced with the iPhone 13 lineup, and it’s a great addition to an iPhone photographer’s arsenal of tools. It’s probably one of the more underrated camera features, and there’s plenty of reason to use it.
What are Photographic Styles? Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Photographic Styles are not filters — they are basically preset levels for Tone and Warmth in the camera app that let you personalize what your iPhone camera captures in real time. The default Photographic Style is always set to Standard, which is an overall balanced look. But there are four others that you can choose from: Rich Contrast, Vibrant, Warm, and Cool.
It’s finally happening — your iPhone is getting RCS in 2024 The iPhone is getting out of control I love Apple, but it’s totally wrong about iMessage and RCS You can change the default to a different preset in the Settings app so that it always starts out on that option, or you can switch between them all while shooting in the Camera app. On top of that, while each preset has its own default levels for Tone and Warmth, you can further customize them to your own liking if you prefer. Doing so lets you create your own “style” every time you take photos.
However, it’s important to note that Photographic Styles cannot be applied post-capture, so they’re not filters. They’re also considered destructive because you cannot change the Photographic Style of an image once it’s captured; if you want to change to a different style, you’ll have to take the photo again with that style applied in real time.
Why Photographic Styles are so good Christine Romero-Chan / Digital Trends Though the Standard setting is usually fine for everyday photos, I notice that sometimes I’m not particularly happy with how iOS handles the color processing after capture. Because the Standard option is a “balanced” look, I feel some elements of a picture appear more washed out than I’d like. Photographic Styles helps alleviate that issue.
Out of the available presets, I think my favorite is Rich Contrast, offering darker shadows and richer colors for strong contrast in a photo. But Vibrant is also good if you want to get brighter and more vivid colors but still have a balanced look. Warm adds more golden undertones, while Cool adds blue undertones. I stuck with the default settings for each one, but again, you can personalize each preset to make the style stronger or more subtle.
If you are worried that the effects will be too much, fret not! I tested Photographic Styles out on my iPhone 14 Pro at Disneyland over the weekend, and honestly, the default settings are quite subtle. You’ll only really notice the differences if you do a comparison of all five presets, and again, you can always switch between the different Photographic Styles while in the Camera app.
Previous Next 1 5 Standard Photographic Style Christine Romero-Chan / Digital Trends Rich Contrast Photographic Style Christine Romero-Chan / Digital Trends Vibrant Photographic Style Christine Romero-Chan / Digital Trends Warm Photographic Style Christine Romero-Chan / Digital Trends Cool Photographic Style Christine Romero-Chan / Digital Trends The above shot was taken when I was waiting in the standby queue for “it’s a small world holiday.” It’s easier to see the differences between the different Photographic Styles during the day, and in the example above, the Standard and Vibrant ones are very similar, with Vibrant being a tad brighter and more vivid. Because of that, you can see a bit more of the finer details, like the texture on the wall. Rich Contrast adds more shadows and darker colors, giving everything a bit more depth and realism. The Warm and Cool styles add their respective undertones to make the image lean more toward one end of the spectrum, with each one evoking different feelings. I personally prefer warmer photos over cooler ones.
Previous Next 1 5 Standard Photographic Style Christine Romero-Chan / Digital Trends Rich Contrast Photographic Style Christine Romero-Chan / Digital Trends Vibrant Photographic Style Christine Romero-Chan / Digital Trends Warm Photographic Style Christine Romero-Chan / Digital Trends Cool Photographic Style Christine Romero-Chan / Digital Trends It can be harder to see the differences between the Photographic Styles at night, depending on the lighting situation you’re in. These shots were taken after it was dark in Cars Land at Disney California Adventure, which is known for its bright neon lights. There is not much of a difference between Standard and Rich Contrast, but the Rich Contrast slightly edges out Standard by having the rock appear a deeper, richer color, and the neon lights don’t appear as blown out. Vibrant looks a bit too artificial and washed out (in the lights) for my liking in this scenario, and both Warm and Cool are similar to Vibrant in this case, aside from the undertones.
At first, I was skeptical of using Photographic Styles because I didn’t like the destructive part of it — the fact that you can’t remove or change a style if you change your mind. But after giving it another chance, I think Photographic Styles is a great way to add a bit more pizazz to your photos without being too drastic (unless you want to). And though it’s a bit hidden away, it’s easy enough to switch between styles on the fly in the Camera app, so I recommend giving it a try if you haven’t used Photographic Styles already.
How to set up Photographic Styles If you’re intrigued by Photographic Styles and want to try it out yourself, there are two ways to do so.
Set up a default Photographic Style By default, the Standard style is on for everyone. But you can change that to one of the other presets so that it’s always ready to go whenever you launch the Camera app.
Open the Settings app on your iPhone (must be an iPhone 13 or later).
Scroll down and select Camera.
Select Photographic Styles.
Swipe between the different styles available: Standard (default) , Rich Contrast , Vibrant , Warm , and Cool.
Select Use “Style” on the one you want.
Now, each time you launch the Camera app, it will start on the one you have selected. However, if you change the style in the next step, then it will override your selection.
Set up a Photographic Style from the Camera app You can also switch between all of the preset styles directly in the Camera app. Here’s how: Open the Camera app on your iPhone (must be an iPhone 13 or later).
Swipe up from the bottom of the viewfinder (the space above the shutter button). Optionally, tap the arrow at the top of the screen to reveal the additional controls.
Select the Photographic Styles button. It looks like three overlapping squares.
Swipe between the different styles: Standard , Rich Contrast , Vibrant , Warm , and Cool.
If you want to adjust the Tone or Warmth of each style, you can do so with the sliders Again, keep in mind that though you can switch between them from the Camera app, whichever style you leave it on becomes the default, even overriding what you originally chose from the Settings app.
A subtle way to improve your photos without much work Joe Maring / Digital Trends Photographic Styles is not a new feature from this year — it launched with the iPhone 13 series and iOS 15. However, it’s not really talked about, and the feature itself is tucked away and hidden in both the Settings app and the Camera. But it can subtly improve the overall color and aesthetic of your photos, and without having to do a lot of post-editing (but you can continue to do that too!) Yes, it’s a little annoying that Photographic Styles is destructive in that you can’t change it after the fact, but it’s easy enough to switch between them that you can use multiple styles on a single scene. And with the ability to adjust the tone and warmth of each setting, it can really make your photos your own.
Editors' Recommendations It looks like the iPhone 16 will get a big design upgrade How I use my Apple Watch and iPhone to manage my diabetes This iPhone 15 and iPhone 14 camera test is closer than I expected 4 AI features I want in my next iPhone I figured out how to protect my iPhone without an ugly case Apple Apple iPhone Features Mobile It could take a while before Android phones allow satellite connectivity to assist users in emergency scenarios, thanks in no part to Qualcomm canceling its ambitious Snapdragon Satellite plans. Apple introduced satellite SOS support last year with the iPhone 14 series, with the intention of helping people when they are out of cellular or broadband coverage range.
The feature allows you to text emergency responders, share locations, and request roadside assistance. But not long after, hope emerged for Android phones. Earlier this year, Qualcomm announced Snapdragon Satellite, with the goal of aping Apple’s initiative for Android phones.
Mobile iPhone 14 Plus (left) and iPhone 15 Plus Andy Boxall / Digital Trends If you’re reading this article, chances are high that you keep pretty up-to-date with modern technology, including smartphones like Apple’s iPhone. You may upgrade your phone every few years, or — if you’re like me — you might even upgrade every year.
Mobile The iPhone 15 Pro and iPhone 15 Pro Max have an all-new titanium body, which is the standout feature from a design perspective. However, another hardware-related feature that's even more noteworthy for these models — and future iPhones over time — is the new Action button.
The Action button replaces the ring/silent switch on the left side of the iPhone 15 Pro and iPhone 15 Pro Max. You can assign one shortcut to the button through the Settings app, such as activating and using the Camera app or turning on the phone's flashlight. To assign the button, go into the Settings app on your supported iPhone. From there, choose the Action Button, then toggle to your selection. It's that simple.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
