Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Phones Best Tablets Tesla Phone Download Android 14 Best Android Phones Home Mobile Reviews Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Samsung Galaxy S23 review: the Android phone for everyone By Christine Romero-Chan Close $799.00 Sleek and compact design Comfortable for one-handed use Very fast performance Reliable cameras take great photos Long-lasting battery life Five years of guaranteed updates Base storage is still 128GB Fast charging up to only 25W Limited zoom quality past 10x Since 2010, there has been a Samsung Galaxy S phone. It has become one of Samsung’s most popular products, and one of the most prolific Android phones on the market. This year, we have the Galaxy S23 series, and the regular Galaxy S23 exists as the smallest and cheapest of the trio.
About our Samsung Galaxy S23 review Samsung Galaxy S23: design Samsung Galaxy S23: colors Samsung Galaxy S23: screen Samsung Galaxy S23: performance and software Samsung Galaxy S23: cameras Samsung Galaxy S23: battery and charging Samsung Galaxy S23: price and availability Samsung Galaxy S23: verdict I’ve been a lifelong iPhone user, but the Galaxy S23 is becoming one of my favorite alternatives since I’ve joined Digital Trends. It may be the smallest and cheapest of the S23 family, but honestly, there’s a lot to love here.
When is my phone getting Android 14? Here’s everything we know Samsung just killed one of its most important Android phones The best Android phones in 2023: the 16 best ones you can buy About our Samsung Galaxy S23 review This review was written by Christine Romero-Chan after over two weeks of use in the U.S. Samsung provided a T-Mobile SIM card to use with the Galaxy S23. We’ll continue to regularly use the Galaxy S23 in the coming weeks and months and will update this review when necessary.
Samsung Galaxy S23: design Christine Romero-Chan / Digital Trends Unlike the Galaxy S21 and Galaxy S22 before it, the Galaxy S23 has a refreshed design that is more akin to other modern smartphones, like the iPhone 14 Pro.
 It no longer has the camera island housing; instead, the cameras are now freely floating on the back. The bumps aren’t quite as big as seen on an iPhone, but it’s not completely flush. Still, it’s a sleek, clean design that should appeal to minimalists. It’s also the same design you’ll find on the Galaxy S23 Plus and Galaxy S23 Ultra.
Samsung uses Gorilla Glass Victus 2 on both the front and the back glass, and the glossy metal frame features Samsung’s Armor Aluminum. The S23 also has an IP68 rating, which means it’s fairly dust and water-resistant. If you tend not to use a case or screen protector on your phones, the S23 should be pretty durable. But if you don’t want to leave anything to chance, looking at a Galaxy S23 case or Galaxy S23 screen protector certainly won’t hurt.
The Galaxy S23 has a simple design with rounded corners and slightly curved edges, which reminds me of the old iPhone 11 design. However, the front display is flat with the frame, and the bezels are relatively thin compared to what I’m used to.
Christine Romero-Chan / Digital Trends The buttons feel good, with a tactile click, and as part of Samsung’s efforts toward sustainability, are even made from recycled materials. Even the speaker grille is made with sustainable materials, and some recycled glass can be found in the Gorilla Glass Victus 2. The packaging and plastic screen cover are also eco-friendly.
My favorite part about the S23’s design is just how comfortable the size is and how lightweight it is. At just 5.93 ounces, it’s much lighter and easier to use than my iPhone 14 Pro that clocks in at 7.27 ounces (without my case and MagSafe PopSocket). That’s even more the case when compared to the S23 Ultra at 8.25 ounces. Thanks to the lightweight feel of the Galaxy S23, I found it comfortable to hold for long periods of time and even use comfortably with one hand — though this may be in part because of a case. Without a case, I found the matte glass on the back of the S23 to be a little slippery.
Samsung Galaxy S23: colors Christine Romero-Chan / Digital Trends The review unit I received is the Cream color, which is a creamy, off-white color. If you had the Phantom White S22, you’ll notice that the Cream definitely has a tad of beige to it, especially if you view them side by side together. I personally like the Cream color, as it’s a light neutral tone that will go with anything and makes some case designs pop more. For example, the Cream color really helps make the lavender flowers on my Coach case pop, as seen in the photo above.
If you don’t like white shades, the other Galaxy S23 colors include Phantom Black, Lavender, and Green. If you buy an S23 directly from Samsung’s website, you can also choose from the exclusive Lime and Graphite options.
Joe Maring/Digital Trends The Phantom Black is a good option if you want a dark neutral color that matches everything, and it’s definitely a pure black shade, versus Graphite, which is more of a dark gray, gunmetal-like hue. I honestly don’t really understand why Samsung made one of the exclusive colors so similar to one of the regular colors, and also in one of the more safe hues.
Samsung At least the Lime color is a bright and refreshing yellow-green, like a freshly cut slice of a juicy lime. The regular Green color is more of a military, olive-like green shade that may not appeal to everyone. It reminds me a bit of the Midnight Green iPhone 11 Pro back in the day. However, depending on the lighting, the Green can shift and look more appealing at certain angles and lighting. Regardless, neither Lime nor Green are totally neutral colors, so they might be harder to match with a good case or even an outfit.
Lavender is like if Cream had a hint of pink (technically purple) to it. It’s very subtle, and it actually looks more like a pale pink than lavender. If you prefer something that has just a dash of color and a bit of femininity to it, then Lavender is the way to go.
Samsung Galaxy S23: screen Christine Romero-Chan / Digital Trends The Galaxy S23 has a 6.1-inch Dynamic AMOLED 2X display that features a Full HD+ resolution and a 120Hz adaptive refresh rate. The resolution sits at 2340 x 1080 pixels, which means 425 pixels per inch (ppi). It should also be noted that the display on the S23 and the S23 Plus are both completely flat, unlike the S23 Ultra, which is curved near the edges. To me, the flat design is sleeker and more practical.
From the moment I turned the Galaxy S23 on, I was thoroughly impressed by the screen.
When you go outside in bright sunlight, the peak brightness is capped at 1,750 nits, which is the same as the S23 Plus and the S23 Ultra. It may not be as bright as Apple’s iPhone 14 Pro series (2,000 nits outdoors), but it’s still very usable on Southern California’s bright and sunny days. Though it’s been a bit gloomier lately than I’d like, I have no problem using the S23 outside in direct sunlight when Mother Nature allows it.
Christine Romero-Chan / Digital Trends From the moment I turned the Galaxy S23 on, I was thoroughly impressed by the screen. It’s incredibly vibrant in its colors — the blacks are rich and deep, and text is sharp and crisp — just as you’d expect from a flagship phone. The 120Hz adaptive refresh rate also makes scrolling very smooth, though Android’s lack of elasticity compared to iOS will always be a bit jarring to me.
I do have to admit that because Samsung’s displays tend to be much more vibrant than other devices, it may make photos taken with the device appear overly saturated. However, when I view the photos I take with the S23 on a different device, like my iPhone 14 Pro or Pixel 7 , they look a little toned down. This is a clear demonstration of how Samsung’s displays really make things “pop” on the screen (even a little too much sometimes).
Samsung Galaxy S23: performance and software Christine Romero-Chan / Digital Trends Samsung’s Galaxy S23 is powered by the latest and greatest chip from Qualcomm: the Snapdragon 8 Gen 2.
 But this is not quite the same chip that you can find in other premium Android phones this year, like the OnePlus 11.
No — Samsung wants you to know that this is the Snapdragon 8 Gen 2 for Galaxy , which is a special version of the processor that is specifically optimized for Galaxy devices. What makes this one different? Samsung and Qualcomm worked together to make this particular version of Snapdragon 8 Gen 2 have a faster CPU clock speed and more software efficiency for image processing. Enough of the mumbo jumbo — basically, Snapdragon 8 Gen 2 for Galaxy makes the S23 superfast.
If you’re the kind of person who upgrades every few years, the S23 will last for a while.
The Galaxy S23 comes in either 128GB or 256GB storage options, and both feature 8GB RAM. It’s unfortunate that the S23 still starts out with only 128GB, while the S23 Plus and S23 Ultra start with 256GB , with the Ultra even going with 12GB RAM in the 512GB and 1TB options. Still, for most people, 128GB is decent, and 256GB should be plenty.
Christine Romero-Chan / Digital Trends Samsung has shipped the Galaxy S23 with Android 13 and its own custom One UI 5.1 layered over it. With the Galaxy S23 series, Samsung is promising four major Android version upgrades, as well as five years of regular security updates. That means that the S23 will last through Android 17, which is pretty impressive in itself, and it will get security patches for any vulnerabilities through 2028. If you’re the kind of person to upgrade every few years, the S23 will last for a while.
I’ve been using the phone for a few weeks now, and I have yet to encounter any frame rate lag or choppiness in my typical daily use. All the apps I need load up instantly once I open them, switching between apps is simultaneous, and capturing photos and videos is quick. Because of this, it is hard not to take a good picture with the Galaxy S23. And when viewing and editing those photos, rendering edits is just as fast as it is on my iPhone 14 Pro, without being overprocessed like with iOS.
Gaming performance is decent — if you are considering the base model S23, then you may only be playing quick games every now and then. In my testing of the device, I did play a bit of Diablo Immortal.
 My experience was mostly smooth, though I did notice a tiny bit of stutter and frame rate drops when there was a lot of action going on. And since this is just the regular Galaxy S23, I was unable to max out the graphical settings. But if you’re just looking to play some casual Match 3 games or the like, then the S23 should handle it without breaking a sweat.
Christine Romero-Chan / Digital Trends / Digital Trends I must admit that while I prefer the stock Android experience that you get with Google Pixel phones, Samsung’s One UI is growing on me. It’s a little overwhelming at first, and there are some things that you should look into setting up before really diving into the phone.
 But once you get those things set up and familiarize yourself with them, then it really just becomes second nature.
One of the new features in One UI that I absolutely love is the fact that you can change the two lock screen shortcuts to anything you want. The interface for customizing the lock screen is similar, but much better than it is on iOS 16 — Apple needs to take a page from Samsung’s book here.
Samsung Galaxy S23: cameras Christine Romero-Chan / Digital Trends Despite being the base model of the lineup, the Galaxy S23 comes equipped with a triple-lens camera system. You get a 50MP main camera with optical image stabilization (OIS) and f/1.8 aperture, a 12MP ultrawide camera with f/2.2 aperture, and a 10MP telephoto camera with OIS and f/2.4 aperture lenses. The selfie camera is a decent 12MP sensor with dual-pixel autofocus and f/2.2 aperture.
Of course, the main spotlight this year went to the S23 Ultra with its 200MP main camera sensor. Though Samsung should have put the old 108MP camera from the S22 Ultra into the S23 and S23 Plus, the S23 still takes some pretty great photos, all things considered.
Previous Next 1 7 Disneyland's Sleeping Beauty Castle decorated for Disney 100 celebration Christine Romero-Chan / Digital Trends Mickey Mouse Disney 100 statue on Disneyland's Main Street Christine Romero-Chan / Digital Trends Carthay Circle restaurant at Disney California Adventure Christine Romero-Chan / Digital Trends Toddler holds a pinecone Christine Romero-Chan / Digital Trends Toddler holds a leaf on a playground Christine Romero-Chan / Digital Trends Oswald the Lucky Rabbit at Disney California Adventure Park Christine Romero-Chan / Digital Trends Finding Nemo submarine ride at Disneyland Christine Romero-Chan / Digital Trends I put the camera to the test a few times by trying to capture my 15-month-old toddler’s antics at the park in front of my house. Thanks to the Snapdragon 8 Gen 2 chip, an image is captured fairly quickly once you press the shutter button, and the result is detailed images that are vibrant and punchy in color. I also took the S23 with me to Disneyland, which resulted in sharp, crisp images that are bright and pleasing to look at.
I did feel that sometimes the colors don’t seem 100% accurate to what you see in real life, but that is also due to Samsung’s display, which tends to lean on the brighter, more saturated side. Some photos I took with both my iPhone 14 Pro and the S23, and the iPhone’s images were more realistic and true to life in terms of color. But after taking a look at the S23 pictures on a different display, like the iPhone 14 Pro through Google Photos, the vibrancy and brightness is toned down a tiny bit, making it closer to what you see in reality.
Previous Next 1 5 Portrait mode photo of dad and daughter Christine Romero-Chan / Digital Trends Portrait mode photo of Dumbo statue at Disneyland Christine Romero-Chan / Digital Trends Portrait mode photo of Minnie Mouse statue at Disneyland Christine Romero-Chan / Digital Trends Portrait of Oswald and Minnie plush dolls Christine Romero-Chan / Digital Trends Portrait mode of Oswald at Disney California Adventure Christine Romero-Chan / Digital Trends I love to take portrait mode photos whenever I can, and I feel that the Galaxy S23 handles edge detection with portraits better than my iPhone 14 Pro. The Portrait mode images I snapped with the S23 all look great, including selfies, and I slightly prefer the bokeh effect that the Galaxy S23 produces — even on regular photos with the main camera. Night mode photos are also pretty good, as the S23 does a great job of brightening things up when you need it to (though some of the finer details are lost in the noise once you zoom in).
Previous Next 1 11 Disney 100 Years of Wonder sign above Disney California Adventure Park at 1X Christine Romero-Chan / Digital Trends Disney 100 Years of Wonder sign above Disney California Adventure Park at 3X Christine Romero-Chan / Digital Trends Disney 100 Years of Wonder sign above Disney California Adventure Park at 10X Christine Romero-Chan / Digital Trends Disney 100 Years of Wonder sign above Disney California Adventure Park at 20X Christine Romero-Chan / Digital Trends Disney 100 Years of Wonder sign above Disney California Adventure Park at 30X Christine Romero-Chan / Digital Trends Pixar Pal-A-Round and Paradise Pier at Disney California Adventure Park at 1X Christine Romero-Chan / Digital Trends Pixar Pal-A-Round at Disney California Adventure Park at 3X Christine Romero-Chan / Digital Trends Pixar Pal-A-Round at Disney California Adventure Park at 10X Christine Romero-Chan / Digital Trends Pixar Pal-A-Round at Disney California Adventure Park at 20X Christine Romero-Chan / Digital Trends Pixar Pal-A-Round at Disney California Adventure Park at 30X Christine Romero-Chan / Digital Trends Duck at Disneyland taken with 30X Space Zoom on Samsung Galaxy S23 Christine Romero-Chan / Digital Trends The telephoto lens on the Galaxy S23 can do 3x optical zoom and up to 30x digital zoom. I was excited to try out the 30x zoom feature, but 10x is essentially the limit for getting decent photos. The 20x and 30x photos I took looked like really bad watercolor paintings, for the most part. Some images, like the Disney 100 Years of Wonder sign above Disney California Adventure and a passenger cabin on the Pixar Pal-A-Round, appear passable. But zooming in on a Disney duck at 30x? Yeah, it doesn’t look good. If you want good-looking zoom images (at least up to 30X), then without a doubt, the Galaxy S23 Ultra is the better option.
Previous Next 1 4 Christine Romero-Chan / Digital Trends Christine Romero-Chan / Digital Trends Christine Romero-Chan / Digital Trends How can I stay mad at her though? Christine Romero-Chan / Digital Trends The selfie camera is also quite good in decent lighting. Selfies I captured appeared mostly true to life, and skin tones don’t appear washed-out. I did notice that sometimes the selfie camera made my lips appear bright and unnaturally orange, but that may have something to do with the lighting, as it doesn’t happen all the time. By default, there is some skin smoothing going on, and you can choose whether skin tone appears natural or warmer, but these can be adjusted to your liking.
It’s hard to capture a bad photo with the Galaxy S23.
In my initial testing phase, I did not take any ultrawide photos — I typically don’t find myself in situations where the ultrawide camera would yield the kind of results I want. However, this may change in the coming weeks as I use the phone more for camera comparisons.
Overall, the Galaxy S23 cameras take great photos for the average person. They’re detailed, vibrant, and punchy, which is definitely appealing. Just keep in mind that the colors may be a little over the top because of the display, but shouldn’t be so outlandish when viewed on other devices. The zoom capabilities are decent up to 10X, but using anything higher than that will depend on what you’re trying to capture. But with the main and selfie cameras, it’s hard to capture a bad photo.
Samsung Galaxy S23: battery and charging Christine Romero-Chan / Digital Trends The Samsung Galaxy S23 has a 3,900mAh battery, which is slightly bigger than the 3,700mAh that came in its predecessor. You’ll find a USB-C to USB-C charging cable in the box, but Samsung has opted not to provide a charging adapter, so you’ll need to use one you already have or buy a new one. While the S23 Plus and S23 Ultra support up to 45-watt fast charging, the base S23 only has up to 25W fast-charging speeds, so you’ll get 50% charge in 30 minutes.
In my week with the Galaxy S23, I’m getting around two full days of use from a single charge. Keep in mind that the S23 is not my primary device (that’s my iPhone 14 Pro), so I am not constantly sending SMS messages and making phone calls with the S23. However, I have been using it constantly for checking social media, including Mastodon, Instagram, and Facebook. I use it for my personal Gmail and work email (Outlook), as well as Microsoft Teams, and I’m making the most out of the camera whenever I can. I occasionally play some games with it and watch videos as well.
Christine Romero-Chan / Digital Trends Samsung has the Galaxy S23 listed to last around 22 hours with normal use, which seems about right. If you only have one phone and use the S23 for all of your messages, calls, and everything else, then it should last most of the day before you need to get it on the charger. But if you’re always carrying a portable battery pack or charger anyway, then these numbers don’t really matter.
Wireless charging is capped out at 15W speeds, and you get 4.5W reverse wireless charging. I haven’t used the reverse wireless charging yet myself, but it’s good to have the option in a pinch.
Samsung Galaxy S23: price and availability Christine Romero-Chan / Digital Trends The Samsung Galaxy S23 is available now.
 The 128GB base model costs $800, and if you need more space, the 256GB version is just $60 more. The S23 comes in four colors: Phantom Black, Cream, Lavender, and Green. If you purchase direct from Samsung, you can also pick from the exclusive Graphite or Lime colors.
Aside from Samsung directly, you can find the S23 pretty much anywhere. You should find one available at your carrier store, Amazon, Best Buy, and other big-name retailers. Just keep in mind that if you want the Graphite or Lime color options, you can only get those by purchasing from Samsung’s website.
Samsung Galaxy S23: verdict Christine Romero-Chan / Digital Trends I personally have been enjoying the Samsung Galaxy S23 quite a lot. For $800, you get a phone that has a sleek and compact design that feels excellent to hold and use one-handed. The display is sharp and beautiful, with vibrant colors and rich blacks. Performance is fast and the cameras are reliable.
Plus, the S23 will get major software upgrades for the next four years, and with five years of regular security updates, this phone has longevity. And even though it’s the smallest battery of the S23 lineup, I still found it to be pretty long-lasting, though I wish the charging speed could be faster like its siblings.
Andy Boxall / Digital Trends Those who like smaller, compact phones will like the S23. But if you need a larger screen, there’s the Galaxy S23 Plus with a 6.6-inch screen for $200 more. It has pretty much the same specs as the regular S23 but with faster charging. But is that worth the $999 price tag? For a lot of people, probably not. At that point, for $1.200, you could get the Galaxy S23 Ultra , which has the superior 200MP main camera, the largest display, most RAM and storage, and S Pen integration.
Another good flagship option to consider is the OnePlus 11 , which is equipped with the Snapdragon 8 Gen 2, a 50MP main camera, and a 6.7-inch AMOLED display, and has long-lasting battery life and even faster charging speeds of up to 80W — all for just $700. However, as stated in our review, it lacks wireless charging capabilities, and the portrait mode camera is a little disappointing. Plus, accessories like cases and screen protectors are hard to come by! There is also the Google Pixel 7 , which is normally just $599, so you could save a little bit of money. It comes equipped with a 6.3-inch OLED display, 8GB RAM with either 128GB or 256GB storage, and a 50MP main camera. However, it lacks a telephoto camera, though you can find that on the Pixel 7 Pro , starting at $899.
Those who are in the market for a new Android phone , but don’t need something as advanced as the Galaxy S23 Ultra, should really consider picking up the regular S23. I feel like it’s a perfect size, and it’s fast and snappy. I’m not sure if it’s worth getting if you still have an S22, though, as the upgrades are pretty iterative and minor. But for everyone else? It’s a fantastic buy.
Editors' Recommendations The best Samsung Galaxy S23 Plus cases: 21 you can’t ignore Samsung Galaxy S24: news, rumored price, release date, and more Samsung just did something strange to its newest Android phone The best folding phones in 2023: the 6 best you can buy Fixing your broken Samsung phone is about to get easier Android Google Phone Reviews Product Reviews Samsung Mobile Just months after releasing the Galaxy Z Fold 5 and Galaxy Z Flip 5, Samsung has introduced another new phone and two tablets. The latest additions to the FE family are the Samsung Galaxy S23 FE, Galaxy Tab S9 FE, and the Galaxy Tab S9 FE Plus.
The FE series is designed to offer an affordable entry point to the Samsung Galaxy universe while still providing many of the same features found in more expensive models. In announcing the new products, TM Roh, president and head of Mobile Experience Business at Samsung Electronics, said: “Our new FE devices are packed with crowd-pleasing premium capabilities that, on their own or as part of a connected ecosystem, let Galaxy users maximize their creativity and productivity.” Samsung Galaxy S23 FE Mobile Topping our list of the best folding phones, you can't go wrong with the Samsung Galaxy Z Fold 5 if you want a super stylish yet practical phone that stands out from the crowd. However, it's an expensive phone so if you want to see how you can save on your purchase, keep reading. We've got everything you need to know about all the best Samsung Galaxy Z Fold 5 deals going on right now across the internet. Let's get straight to how you could save including discounts, trade-ins, and much more.
Samsung Galaxy Z Fold 5 deals at Samsung Samsung offers a free storage upgrade with select Samsung Galaxy Z Fold 5 devices so you get 512GB of storage instead of 256GB. It's also possible to get up to $1,000 trade-in credit depending on the phone you're trading in.
Mobile Upon launch, the Samsung Galaxy Z Flip 5 soon found itself a firm favorite among the best folding phones thanks to being extremely well-built, offering great performance, and good cameras. However, just because it's a premium phone doesn't mean you should have to settle for paying premium prices. That's why we've picked out all the best Samsung Galaxy Z Flip 5 deals and listed them below. Available across many different retailers and in various forms like through trade-in deals or simply being cheaper than usual, there's something for everyone here.
Samsung Galaxy Z Flip 5 deals at Samsung Go directly to the source by buying the Samsung Galaxy Z Flip 5 from Samsung, and you can get up to $600 instant trade-in credit. It depends on what phone you're trading in but it's useful if you prefer to go direct.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
