Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Phones Best Tablets Tesla Phone Download Android 14 Best Android Phones Home Mobile How bikes and vacuums inspired the tech that makes Samsung’s folding phones tough By Andy Boxall Close “When we first said we should fold our phones, everyone laughed. The next time, when we said they should be water resistant, we were told it wasn’t possible,” Byengseok Choi, senior professional in Samsung’s Product Planning Group, said with a laugh.
The plan Resistance is not futile What about adding dust resistance? Armor aluminum Screen toughness and feel Testing the new devices Teamwork, and the future As the Galaxy Z Fold 3 and Galaxy Z Flip 3 have since demonstrated, Choi’s critics were wrong. But getting there wasn’t easy. Digital Trends sat down with Choi, and two other members of the team responsible for toughening up Samsung’s folding smartphones, to find out how they did it.
The team had to develop new materials, new processes, and even new testing equipment to beef up the new folding smartphones. But they also drew some inspiration from very familiar places. This is what it looked like behind the scenes.
2023’s newest folding phone is already putting Samsung to shame Fixing your broken Samsung phone is about to get easier I was totally wrong about 2023’s best folding flip phones The plan “Our job is making the impossible possible, which I believe is what we usually call innovation,” said Choi, who has been involved in the company’s foldable project since 2015, shortly after we started to hear rumors about it.
Image used with permission by copyright holder When Samsung set about developing folding phones, a survey of consumers found, perhaps unsurprisingly, that durability was a top request. Despite the challenge involved and the initial reaction to the project, the team went all-out to make it possible.
“We made a lot of effort to achieve this,” he said. “To be specific, our focus was mainly on the exterior, the display, and adding water resistance. The feature most expected was water resistance, but a foldable has two parts connected by a hinge and wiring. Because of this structure, enabling water resistance is all the more complicated.” Resistance is not futile Waterproofing a phone is easy: Seal it up. Waterproofing a folding phone is not: You need to essentially waterproof two phones, plus the complex tangle of moving parts that connects them. Hee-Cheul Moon, principal engineer at Samsung’s Advanced Mechanical R&D Group, broke the problem into pieces, with different solutions for each.
“There are three major concepts behind making the whole device waterproof,” explains Moon. “We made the display waterproof, the device’s body parts waterproof, and the hinge water resistant, then combined them together using new materials we developed that make the connections and gaps water resistant. It is basically sealing technology, and to achieve this we use different approaches: Taping, bonding, and the accumulation of layers.” Layering was used to waterproof the screen. “Even if there is a small ingress of water, the layers still protect the device,” Moon said, “Think of how the Earth consists of multiple layers — when we have rain, it soaks through the ground, but not all in one go. If you understand this concept, you now have a basic understanding of how the technology works. We surround each layer with bonding materials, so each one is sealed.” Andy Boxall/Digital Trends The second stage was to make the hinge water resistant, which at first sounds even more problematic than sealing the screen.
“It’s actually simpler than you think,” Moon said with a smile. “We ride bicycles in the rain, and they consist of mainly two wheels and a chain, which are all moveable parts. What we used [on the Z Fold 3 and Z Flip 3’s hinge] is a specially developed lubricant that would secure the foldable’s water resistance until the end of its life.” But what about the wiring that connects the two parts together? The lubricant may work on the hinge itself, but behind it, water could easily enter the rest of the device through gaps used for the electrical connections. Samsung first replaced physical wiring with a flexible printed circuit board, and then developed a special bonding material similar to silicone, which seals the gaps between the FPCB and the chassis. The result? The team achieved an IPX8 rating for both folding smartphones, meaning each will withstand about 30 minutes in fresh water at a depth of about five feet.
What about adding dust resistance? “When we first released the Galaxy Fold , we went through a tough time with foreign substances entering it,” Moon recalled, referencing the delays the first device faced in 2019.
 “We started from there, and asked, ‘How do we stop this?’ We settled on sweeper technology.” This breakthrough came from another type of product Samsung makes. “We tried 99 different directions and approaches to achieve our goal, and the hint we got was from the vacuum cleaner. The bristles on the sweeper would protect the hinge gap, and after some tries, it was shown the concept was effective. But the bristles had to be much smaller [than those used on a vacuum cleaner], so we had to develop that technology, new materials, come up with the optimal structure, and make the overall production work, too.” We tried 99 different directions and approaches to achieve our goal, and the hint we got was from the vacuum cleaner.
Despite these advances, the X in the IPX8 rating indicates neither the Z Fold 3 nor Z Flip 3 are dust resistant, unlike phones with an IP68 rating. Why not? “Simply put, as of now, to be realistic, it’s not possible,” Moon said. However, he conceded, “Consumers are right to ask for it, and we are constantly enhancing the sweeper technology to achieve that goal.” Armor aluminum With the insides of the new folding smartphones protected, what about the exterior? Samsung introduced Armor Aluminum on the new Z Fold 3 and Z Flip 3, which is used for the frame and the cover over the hinge. Sung-Ho Cho, principal engineer in Samsung’s Advanced Color, Materials, Design (CMF) Lab, has years of experience working with CMF on Galaxy devices at Samsung. He joined the team in 2006 and subsequently worked on the Galaxy Tab, Galaxy A, Galaxy Note, and now the new folding hardware. Durability and aesthetics, he explains, don’t always go together.
Andy Boxall/Digital Trends “Creating a strong material is the easy part, but the result may not work for all involved, making development a difficult balancing act,” Cho said. “You can make a new material as strong as you want, but there is always a trade-off. Finding the balance between strength and design, from a CMF perspective, is the toughest part. For example, if we want to make the material stronger, we may not get the color we want.” Samsung spent nearly two years developing Armor Aluminum. Cho said the most effective way of assessing toughness between different materials is to hit them together. He showed me a comparison between Armor Aluminum and other metals, always with Armor Aluminum suffering the smaller dent, suggesting Samsung found the balance it was looking for.
Screen toughness and feel The outside of the Z Fold 3 and Z Flip 3 is more durable and the insides won’t be ruined by water, but what about the final aspect, the screen? Cho said the team worked on two primary areas to make the display stronger. The first was experimenting with different panel layers to find the structure that provided the most shock resistance, and the second was the protective film that goes over the top.
“A new material was developed for the film which stretches better so it doesn’t hurt the display, and doesn’t affect the experience when folding and unfolding,” Cho said. “As a result, we have achieved a more than 80% increase in panel durability: It’s more resistant to dents and distortion, more transparent, and attracts fewer fingerprints on the screen.” Ajay Kumar/Digital Trends When you use the Galaxy Z Fold 3 and Z Flip 3, it’s surprising how glasslike the screen protector feels, especially compared to the original Galaxy Fold.
“The film is the same material as the one on our bar-type phones,” Cho revealed, “so it naturally feels the same when you touch it. But we had to enhance the stretching properties so it’s more fit for foldable phones.” Testing the new devices How do you ensure all these wonder materials work in the real world? Samsung couldn’t simply rely on existing tests.
“We had to completely develop new testing equipment and processes,” Moon said. “For a foldable, special equipment is needed to test the overall durability, not just for drops, but also for the folding actions. Just for the new drop tests, we had to develop three different types of machine to run them, and the water-resistance test is also completely different for foldables. Because [folding smartphones are] a new category, we had to develop them all from scratch; all the tests, processes, and equipment.” Teamwork, and the future Samsung leads the way in folding smartphones at the moment, but it wasn’t an easy to take the lead: There were no hard-and-fast rules to follow, very few tried-and-tested methods or processes, and not even always the right material for the job on hand. It’s fascinating to understand a little of what goes into making these cutting-edge devices possible and better than the ones that came before.
“What we are most proud of is three parts of our production had to work together to make all this possible,” said Moon. “First you start with an idea, second you need to combine them together with the right architecture and design, and third you need a systematic, structured production facility and processes to enable consistent mass production of the device.” Some may think that this is really only possible due to Samsung’s size and manufacturing power, but while it’s certainly going to play a part, Moon knows there’s something more.
“It’s not something related to size. It’s our team,” he said proudly.
Byengseok Choi echoed this, and added: “We pulled together a fantastic team and actually realized this,” he said about the challenge to produce durable folding smartphones. “Because we got this far, I believe we can be even more innovative in the next versions of our foldable products.” Editors' Recommendations Samsung just killed one of its most important Android phones How a tiny, fun phone changed my mind about foldables These two Android foldables cost less than one Galaxy Z Fold 5 How a few small changes made me love the Samsung Galaxy Z Fold 5 Motorola’s cheap Razr could change folding phones forever Android Android Features Google Samsung Mobile Samsung's fifth generation of foldable phones is already here, bringing structural improvements to the hinge and other parts tucked inside the body. Besides the improved internals, the Samsung Galaxy Z Flip 5 also gets attention from Samsung in the form of its new and significantly larger cover display.
This external display now occupies a large area on the Flip's top face and lets you accomplish significantly more without opening the phone than you could on any of the previous models. Along with improved hardware, the optimized software ensures the new and powerful specs are utilized to their maximum potential.
Mobile IF THE SAMSUNG Z FLIP 5 SURVIVES… I'll Switch.
Samsung’s new Galaxy Z Flip 5 foldable phone has been put through its paces in a particularly brutal durability test.
Mobile Samsung recently released a slate of new products with great new features, including the new Galaxy Z Fold 5, Galaxy Z Flip 5, the Galaxy Tab S9 tablet lineup, and the Galaxy Watch 6 series. While these are the latest and greatest, Samsung has just announced that some new One UI features introduced with these devices are heading to older models through a software update.
The One UI 5.1.1 update will be coming to owners of the Galaxy Z Fold 4 and Galaxy Z Flip 4 devices this month. People who have the Z Fold 3, Z Flip 3, Z Fold 2, Z Flip 2, and original Z Flip will get the update sequentially.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
