Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Phones Best Tablets Tesla Phone Download Android 14 Best Android Phones Home Mobile News Samsung recognized for sustainability with two EPA awards By Andy Zahn Close As increasing the sustainability of our modern lifestyles becomes an ever more significant concern, it’s important that we recognize those who make an effort to reduce the impact of humans on our planet. That’s why it’s great to see that the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) has given Samsung Electronics two awards in recognition of the company’s accomplishments as a sustainability leader and innovator.
Gold Tier Award EPA Sustained Excellence Award A sustainable unboxing experience A tantalizing glimpse of a battery-free future Conclusion Digital Trends / Andy Zahn Gold Tier Award For the eighth year in a row, Samsung won the Gold Tier Award, which is the EPA’s highest award for recycling of e-waste collection. This centers around the fact that Samsung currently collects and recycles roughly 100 million pounds of e-waste every year. Since 2008, it has recycled more than a billion pounds of electronics. This major recycling effort prevents a significant quantity of emissions that would otherwise be produced.
It’s also worth noting that, in addition to reduced emissions, utilizing recycled e-waste moderates the environmental harm that results from extracting raw materials from the natural environment. Furthermore, it keeps electronics out of landfills and slows the expansion of such trash repositories.
Samsung Galaxy Z Fold 5: two things I hate (and two I love) Belkin just made a huge bet on sustainability at CES 2023 Samsung launches eco-friendly phone case line for Earth Day Samsung has adopted the goal of incorporating 500,000 tons of recycled plastics into its products globally by 2030.
EPA Sustained Excellence Award This new EPA award recognizes Samsung’s long record of innovations in increasing the sustainability of its products. An example of such innovation is the recently announced Solar Cell Remote , which is made of 24% recycled plastics, and which doesn’t need any AA batteries and is instead powered by radio frequencies, like those produced by Wi-Fi routers. Samsung says this tech will be incorporated into more of its products, such as TVs and home appliances, going forward, with the goal of eliminating more than 200 million batteries from landfills.
Further accomplishments in sustainability made by Samsung include the reduction of more than 301 million metric tons of Co2 emissions via energy efficiency improvements, and the fact that all of Samsung’s facilities in the U.S. run entirely on renewable electricity.
A sustainable unboxing experience Digital Trends / Andy Zahn Just yesterday, I pulled my new Samsung Galaxy S22 Ultra out of its box, which gave me a timely look at this company’s innovative methods of reducing waste and recycling materials. I was impressed with the paper-based cushioning in the shipping package that protected the phone wrapped within. Not only is this far less environmentally harmful than styrofoam or plastic cushioning, but I also prefer such packaging in the unboxing experience from an aesthetic perspective.
The smaller box containing the S22 Ultra itself is composed of recycled (and recyclable) cardboard, as are the package containing the manual and USB cable and the sleeve holding the USB cable in place. Graphics on the box were printed with soy-based ink. The only plastic I could find on the packaging is the tape holding the box closed. Inside the device itself, a large portion of the materials used are recycled, including plastics sourced from discarded fishing nets.
Digital Trends / Andy Zahn A tantalizing glimpse of a battery-free future It will be particularly interesting to see how far Samsung’s radio frequency power tech will go. Reducing or eliminating the need for batteries in our devices is not only of extreme environmental importance, but would also enable our devices to be lighter, cheaper, longer-lasting, and more convenient. People have dreamed of wireless power since the days of Nikola Tesla, and now we are beginning to see that future gradually materialize.
Conclusion While some new, unrecycled materials do go into the production of these Samsung’s devices, and there are other tricky sustainability challenges to tackle, it is clear that this company has exceeded its competition when it comes to innovative ways to reduce its environmental footprint.
I’m not easy to impress when it comes to claims of sustainability and eco-friendliness, but after looking into Samsung’s accomplishments in this regard, including hands-on experience with their most recent mobile offerings, I can’t help but admire the lengths to which it has gone. Both the EPA’s Gold Tier and the Sustained Excellence Award are fitting recognition of the progress Samsung has made.
Editors' Recommendations Samsung just announced another new phone (and two Android tablets) Your Samsung smartwatch will soon get a lifesaving health feature How the Galaxy Z Flip 4 fixed my unhealthy phone habits Apple to use zero-emission recycled aluminum in iPhone SE Do fast chargers mean phone makers don’t care about environment? Samsung Tech for Change Tech News The Food Fight Mobile A couple of days ahead of its highly anticipated Galaxy Unpacked event, Samsung has revealed that its new high-end Galaxy S phones will for the first time be made from repurposed ocean-bound plastics such as discarded fishing nets.
Responding to growing scrutiny from green activists, as well as a customer base increasingly aware of environmental issues, the Korean tech giant said the move was part of ongoing efforts to “minimize its environmental footprint and help foster more sustainable lifestyles for the Galaxy community.” Mobile The Samsung Galaxy S21 FE journey has been a never-ending saga that could rival a Bollywood potboiler. The phone -- initially slated for launch in August 2021 -- was delayed for so long that some people suggested it was better for Samsung to cancel the phone altogether. However, a string of leaks hinted at the likelihood of the phone launching in the first week of January. Today, we have irrefutable evidence that the Samsung Galaxy S21 FE is, indeed, on its way after someone got their hands on the phone and posted a detailed unboxing video a good two weeks before its supposed launch date.
Folks over at Italian tech blog HDBlog managed to get a hold of what they say is a retail version of the Samsung Galaxy S21 FE and went ahead and unboxed the phone, showing it in all its detail. The video (embedded below) pretty much reveals everything we ever wanted to know about the little brother to the Galaxy S21 series.
News Forget lusting after a Milanese Loop-style strap for your Galaxy Watch 4 or Galaxy Watch 4 Classic. How about one made from apple peel? Even better, how about an apple peel strap made by one of the biggest names in sustainable fashion today? Samsung has announced a limited-edition collection of sustainably produced watch straps for the Galaxy Watch 4 made by fashion designer Sami Miró, founder of Sami Miro Vintage, the fashion brand beloved by celebrities including Selena Gomez, Drake, Gigi and Anwar Hadid, Kylie and Kendall Jenner, and Kim and Kourtney Kardashian.
Sami Miró and the Galaxy Watch 4. .
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
