Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Phones Best Tablets Tesla Phone Download Android 14 Best Android Phones Home Mobile Features This tiny sensor is about to change your phone camera forever By Andy Boxall Close “We believe there’s a real opportunity to develop and use a spectral imager in a smartphone. Despite all the progress which has been made with different cameras and the computing power of a smartphone, none can really identify the true color of a picture.” Have you ever seen this color? Is it a sensor, or a camera? When will it be used in a phone? This is how Spectricity CEO Vincent Mouret described the company’s mission to Digital Trends in a recent interview, as well as the reason why it’s making a miniaturized spectral image sensor that’s ready for use in a smartphone.
 But what exactly is a spectral sensor, and how does it work? It turns out, it can do a whole lot more than just capture pretty colors.
Have you ever seen this color? Spectricity CEO Vincent Mouret (from left) and application engineer Michael Jacobs Spectricity Before we get to all that, let’s talk about what Spectricity’s S1 multispectral image sensor does for cameras. Most phone cameras use three-color RGB (red, green, and blue) sensors, but the Spectricity S1 sensor looks further into the visible light and near-infrared range to reproduce more natural, more consistent colors, along with considerably improved white balance.
Fixing your broken Samsung phone is about to get easier This is what happens when you compare 4 phones in an 800MP camera test I tested the Galaxy S23 Ultra and iPhone 14 Pro cameras. Only one is a winner “A standard camera integrated into a smartphone has an RGB sensor that sees red, green, and blue,” Mouret said. “We add filters to create up to 16 different images with different colors, different wavelengths of light, light coming from different sources, and the reflected light coming from the object of the scene. You can identify many different properties thanks to these different images compared to a standard RGB.” What this means is that no matter the lighting conditions, the images taken by a phone with the S1 sensor will have more consistent colors throughout, as you can see in the example image below. During our conversation, I saw a live demonstration that replicated the color reproduction and consistency seen in the example, but it’s worth noting the sensor was operated by a PC and not a smartphone.
A chart showing how the Spectricity S1 sensor differs from smartphone cameras.
Spectricity “You will see with Xiaomi, Samsung, Apple, and Huawei cameras the colors are very different in different lighting conditions. In the same scene taken with our spectral imager, there’s slight differences, but minor ones. The colors out of images are the colors seen by our naked eyes. You can see all the smartphones produce very different colors.” This color accuracy will also improve the ability of smartphone cameras to better reproduce different skin tones. In another example image, the S1 sensor appeared to show considerable improvements here too.
“You can see the skin tones are totally different depending on the lighting condition,” Mouret pointed out. “The solution is to use a spectral imager to analyze the lighting conditions, to really give the right tone. This is the only way. You can put a lot of AI behind it, but it’s not enough. You need to have some additional hardware.” Unfortunately, Mouret didn’t have a Google Pixel phone on hand to compare the S1 sensor with Google’s Real Tone computational technology , which promises to do something similar, only by using software enhancements.
Is it a sensor, or a camera? Spectricity The benefits of a spectral image sensor like the S1 seem to be clear, and who doesn’t want more effective white balance and natural, consistent colors in their photographs? But the way Mouret described the S1’s ability made it sound more like a camera than a sensor. Which is it? Can it really fit inside a smartphone? If so, what modifications will be needed? Spectricity application engineer Michael Jacobs, who ran the demo I watched, explained what the S1 actually is.
“It’s really a companion sensor, very similar to a depth sensor or a 3D sensor used with an RGB camera,” he confirmed.
However, it does technically take photos, just not ones you’d want to use individually, as Mouret explained: “Our image sensor has a VGA resolution, 800 x 600 pixels. You need to combine this smaller spectral image with an RGB image. The module itself is really very small. It has been designed to be integrated in a smartphone. So it’s 5mm by 5mm by 6mm,” Mouret told me, before saying more about how the sensor is built. “It’s not easy, but it’s nothing very sophisticated, I would say,” he explained, saying the module is built using the same methods as regular CMOS sensors. “In terms of overall cost, the complete module will be the same cost as a high-volume standard camera.” A graphic showing the difference between an RGB sensor and the Spectricity S1 spectral imager.
Spectricity Right now, the sensor will integrate with a standard Image Signal Processor (ISP) used by smartphone processors from Qualcomm and MediaTek, but it will require additional software to operate.
The S1 multispectral image sensor isn’t a one-trick pony, and actually has an intriguing second function, in that it can recognize and analyze skin biomarkers. What this means is it’s able to tell if it’s “seeing” a real person, which could be used for security applications — for example, it knows if someone is wearing a mask to conceal their identity — skin care, and even in health applications when combined with AI and other software. It could also be used to enhance Portrait Mode photos.
When will it be used in a phone? Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Manufacturers have been working to improve color reproduction on phones for a while, going back to the LG G5 in 2016, which used a dedicated color spectrum sensor alongside its laser autofocus sensor to improve color performance. Huawei took a different approach and abandoned an RGB sensor on the P30 Pro in favor of an RYYB sensor, in its effort to better reproduce colors and improve lowlight performance.
Olympus and Imec have also experimented with near-infrared RGB sensors for different applications.
The Spectricity S1 sensor is a world’s first and goes in a different direction agin from these examples. Based on the demo and example images, it’s showing considerable promise — but when should we expect to see it on a phone? “In the beginning, it will be introduced on high-end phones,” Mouret said. “It will be small volume in 2024, a higher volume in 2025, and then starting in 2026, it will be more widespread.” Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Mouret also expects the first examples to come from Chinese smartphone manufacturers, and not from companies like Samsung and Apple. However, Mouret expects this to change in the future, and in the CES 2023 press release for the S1 sensor, he didn’t hold back on his expectations, saying: “We expect the first smartphone models with the S1 to be released in 2024, and we expect all smartphones to include our technology within the coming years.” Yes, all smartphones.
 It’s a big target, but if the performance we saw in the demo is what we will eventually see from a phone camera with the S1 alongside it, few manufacturers will want to be left behind.
Editors' Recommendations How a tiny, fun phone changed my mind about foldables Can a $450 phone beat the Samsung Galaxy S23’s cameras? It’s close You aren’t ready for this Galaxy S23 vs. iPhone 14 Pro camera test Xiaomi’s new phone has a 200MP camera — and its photos are stunning The future of blood oxygen monitoring lies with your phone’s camera Features Mobile Just how much do you need a screen protector on your new iPhone 14? Screen protectors are like cases — we don’t always want to buy and use them but feel we should protect our investment from harm. But with that comes the expense, the awkwardness of fitting the things, and sometimes a change in the feel of the glass under our finger.
The iPhone 14 Pro uses a special type of protective glass Apple calls Ceramic Shield, which it says offers scratch resistance and four times the drop protection versus iPhone models without the special glass. Is there any point in fitting a screen protector to it, and if you don’t, what will your phone look like after a year? That’s what we’ve found out.
What is Ceramic Shield? Ceramic Shield glass was introduced on the iPhone 12 series, was used on the iPhone 13 series, and is fitted to the new iPhone 14 models, too. It doesn’t matter whether you buy a regular iPhone 14, the iPhone 14 Pro, or the iPhone 14 Pro Max — it has Apple’s Ceramic Shield glass on the front. Like the familiar Gorilla Glass fitted on many Android devices, Apple’s Ceramic Shield has also been developed by experts at Corning.
Mobile The OnePlus 10T is the first new phone to come from OnePlus since former co-founder Carl Pei launched his company’s first phone, the Nothing Phone 1. The OnePlus 10T is more expensive than the Nothing Phone 1, yet isn’t as stylish and doesn’t share the same materials, but there are some similarities in the cameras. Putting Pei’s former company’s new phone against his own seemed like an opportunity too good to miss, so which has the better camera? OnePlus 10T and Nothing Phone 1 camera specs The OnePlus 10T has a 50-megapixel Sony IMX766 main camera, with optical image stabilization (OIS), plus an 8MP wide-angle camera and a basic 2MP macro camera. The Nothing Phone 1 also has a 50MP Sony IMX766 main camera with OIS, but it's joined by a 50MP wide-angle camera and entirely foregoes a third camera. On the front of both is a 16MP selfie camera.
What makes this test interesting is seeing the differences not only in the way both companies tune the same main camera, but also in how the different processors assist with image reproduction. The Snapdragon 8+ Gen 1 in the OnePlus 10T is the top chip available from maker Qualcomm, while the Nothing Phone 1 has a mid-range Snapdragon 778G processor.
Mobile Last year in September, Samsung showcased its first 200-megapixel sensor and a fresh report suggests that the company has another one in the works. It is supposed that the S23 Ultra will come equipped with this new sensor. The Korean publication ET News broke out the news stating that the 200-megapixel sensor is in the final stage of development. According to the report, Samsung Electronics mobile division and Samsung Electro-Mechanics are the two divisions behind the making of the sensor. Thirty percent of the camera sensors will be manufactured by the former while the latter will be producing the other seventy percent.
Samsung flagships have been shipping with massive 108-megapixel sensors for a while now. But it's likely not enough as the company plans to incorporate a 200-megapixel camera on its upcoming flagship phone. At the moment there isn’t a lot to talk about this new sensor but we expect Samsung to reveal more details soon.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
