Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Phones Best Tablets Tesla Phone Download Android 14 Best Android Phones Home Mobile Features Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? The future of OnePlus’ messy phone software has me worried By Andy Boxall Close The OnePlus 10 Pro comes with OxygenOS 12 installed over Android 12. That’s the good news. The bad news is its considerable similarity to Oppo’s ColorOS 12 software, and all its inherent issues has caused controversy among the OnePlus faithful. Many are looking forward to OxygenOS 13 as the savior, but OnePlus’ current messaging around it is confused and noncommittal.
What’s the problem with OxygenOS 12? Going back to OxygenOS 11 Don’t dismiss the OnePlus 10 Pro Will OxygenOS 13 save the day? But was OnePlus’s old OxygenOS software really that much better? After all, it’s easy to look back with rose-colored glasses when we’re faced with disappointment. To find out, I put the OnePlus 10 Pro alongside the OnePlus 9 Pro to see if the adoration for past versions of OxygenOS could be chalked up to nostalgia before we get too caught up in our expectations for the future.
What’s the problem with OxygenOS 12? The problem with OxygenOS 12 is that it’s the same as Oppo’s ColorOS 12 , and that makes it not very good. Both suffer from, based on my opinion and personal experience, two primary problems: Poor reliability and a dismal approach to design and user experience. I’ve used OxygenOS (and ColorOS and RealmeUI, which are basically the same) a lot recently, and have encountered the same problems, convincing me these are software issues, rather than “me” issues.
Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Reliability can be woeful. I use WhatsApp and Line to chat with friends, and unlike any other phone software I use, OxygenOS randomly fails to deliver notifications for each. Even if I restart the phone in the morning, it doesn’t always show new messages have arrived, and if they come in during the daytime, there will often be no indication then either. But because it doesn’t happen all the time, and still happens when I tell Android not to restrict background activity, it’s frustratingly unpredictable.
For a $1,700 folding phone, the OnePlus Open has one big flaw OnePlus is about to put the Google Pixel 8 Pro to shame OnePlus has big news for September 25 — but it’s not a folding phone The aggressive power management — OxygenOS and ColorOS constantly badger you about apps draining power — doesn’t help, which then leads me to the other problem with the software: It’s intrusive, messy, and overly complicated. Presumably this is software that has been created by an expert, yet it always feels like a work in progress, ready for you, the owner, to finish off. I don’t want that. I want the expert to make the best, most fluid, and neatest piece of software possible. Not a framework for me to spend an hour or so on a regular basis tweaking to get it in a usable state.
Going back to OxygenOS 11 What’s interesting about going back to OxygenOS 11 on the OnePlus 9 Pro is how much more put-together, usable, and “fast and smooth” it is. From it being set up in a logical fashion immediately, to sliding up the App Drawer and customizing different aspects, the OnePlus 9 Pro is more logical and more pleasurable to use. It’s a difference you notice immediately. Interestingly though, many aspects of the basic design aren’t really much different.
Previous Next 1 4 OxygenOS 11 (left) and OxygenOS 12 Andy Boxall/Digital Trends OxygenOS 11 (left) and OxygenOS 12 (right) Andy Boxall/Digital Trends OxygenOS 11 (left) and OxygenOS 12 (right) Andy Boxall/Digital Trends OxygenOS 11 (left) and OxygenOS 12 (right) Andy Boxall/Digital Trends But the approach to design is very different. A good example of ColorOS/OxygenOS 12’s irritations is found when changing wallpaper. Long-press on the screen to start the process and on OxygenOS 11 you get options for Wallpaper, Widgets, and Home Settings. If you pressed the screen by accident, you tap it again and it disappears. It’s all quick, easy, and intuitive, and the options presented are ones you may use quite often.
In OxygenOS 12, you long-press the screen and get options for Wallpaper, Icons, Layout, and Transitions. What about Widgets? Ah, that’s the unlabeled “+” icon in the top left of the screen. Activated all this by accident? Tapping on the screen doesn’t make it go away. To do that, you have to press the small Done button in the top right of the screen. It’s overly complicated (when did you last need to quickly change the icon shape and home screen transitions?) and not at all user-friendly.
I secretly wanted OxygenOS 11 to be a bit of a disappointment.
This difference really highlights the lack of thought that seems to have gone into making OxygenOS 12/ColorOS 12 usable on a daily basis, and how well-designed Oxygen OS 11 was. All the customization is still there, but it’s not on the surface. That’s fine, because most people either won’t care, or will only need it once.
Don’t dismiss the OnePlus 10 Pro I could go on, and I will. I prefer the bright, colorful, obvious buttons used to reply to messages in the Notification shade in OxygenOS 11 compared to the small, easily missed text used in OxygenOS 12. That’s especially ironic because: Color OS. OxygenOS 11 had a consistent design throughout, but OxygenOS 12 has varying font sizes, both round and square icons, and mismatched button designs that give it a messy, thrown-together aesthetic. The old Photos app is more sensibly laid out than the new Gallery app, and doesn’t use the annoying “random large image” approach that infests the new version. OxygenOS 11 never once show a notification from an Optimizer app, telling me an app is draining the battery, but OxygenOS 12 does it multiple times a day.
Before embarking on the comparison, I secretly wanted OxygenOS 11 to be a bit of a disappointment. I hoped it would not be as good as I remembered it. Sadly, it’s better than I remember, which in turn makes OxygenOS 12 look even worse and means OxygenOS 13 has a lot more work to do to restore faith when it eventually arrives in the future.
Does that mean you should ignore the OnePlus 10 Pro? No, it doesn’t. While the adoption of ColorOS is a misstep on OnePlus’ part, you do get used to OxygenOS 12 and its issues. You’ll also only really be aware of the big differences if you come directly from an OxygenOS 11 device. The OnePlus 10 Pro is a good smartphone , and you won’t be disappointed with it as a whole, but long-term devotees of the brand and its products won’t be pleased with the software.
Will OxygenOS 13 save the day? We’re stuck with OxygenOS 12 for now, then. However, OnePlus is certainly aware that version 12 hasn’t won it many fans, and it has already talked publicly about working on OxygenOS 13. Does that mean it’s coming to save the day, as the company prides itself on listening to its community of fans? OxygenOS 12 (right) and ColorOS 12 (left) Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Unfortunately, OnePlus’ comments on the future of OxygenOS are confusing. In an interview ahead of the OnePlus 10 Pro’s global launch , OnePlus said it was committed to “keeping OxygenOS and ColorOS as two distinctly different software experiences,” but this definitely hasn’t happened with version 12. In a subsequent OnePlus Forum post, the company writes about OxygenOS and ColorOS , saying that “the OS teams are fully integrated into one and ready to collaborate and learn from each other’s experience. Together we will build OS products hand in hand.” That doesn’t imply great change is coming, but in the same post, it then promises, “OxygenOS 13 will not change the core product philosophy that OxygenOS has always adhered to, such as fast and smooth, burden-less experience, ease of use, and reliability.” Elsewhere, OnePlus has said the future of the OS will be “an experience that longtime OnePlus users will be familiar with while ensuring it upholds hallmarks of OxygenOS.” None of these statements match the real-life experience of using the current version of the software, so it’s hard to take them as anything other than marketing talk, and OnePlus toeing the company line. It means the future of OxygenOS is anyone’s guess, and due to OxygenOS 13 being based on Android 13 (which hasn’t been officially announced by Google yet), there are still many months before we find out what the future of the software is.
For now, OxygenOS 12 is what we’ve got and although it’s unlikely anyone will love it, we are going to have to live with it. What’s more, based on the lack of clarity about OxygenOS 13, it’s possibly going to be for the long-term.
Editors' Recommendations The worst thing has happened to one of 2023’s best Android phones The OnePlus 12 may fix one of the OnePlus 11’s biggest mistakes I tried Android 14 on my OnePlus 11 — and I’m not impressed The OnePlus 11 Concept has PC-like liquid cooling, and it looks incredible The OnePlus 11 Concept steals the Nothing Phone’s best trick Features OnePlus Mobile When I picked up the OnePlus 10 Pro, I missed the old OxygenOS immediately. Gone was the fluid and feature-light software that made OnePlus phones such a great experience, replaced by the heavy, slower, and more annoying ColorOS-inspired software few liked as much. I liked it even less on the OnePlus 10T, and I wasn’t the only one.
I really like the OnePlus 11, but I wasn’t expecting to like OxygenOS 13 much. My early impression of ColorOS 13 was good, but I didn’t trust the newly Oppo-ified OnePlus enough to think it would carry over. But after using, and loving, the OnePlus 11 for several weeks, I no longer feel any animosity towards OxygenOS. Have I simply become used to it, or has the software actually got better? What’s the problem with OxygenOS? Mobile Wondering if the OnePlus 11 camera beats the OnePlus 10 Pro camera? Us too! So, over a few days and nights, we put the two against each other to see if the latest OnePlus phone improves over its predecessor.
It’s interesting not only from a basic camera hardware standpoint, but also because we get to see how Hasselblad continues to influence the photos. The two companies have been working together for a while now, and seeing positive changes is really important. Here are the results.
OnePlus 11 vs. OnePlus 10 Pro: camera specs OnePlus 10 Pro (left) and OnePlus 11 Andy Boxall / Digital Trends Mobile The OnePlus Buds Pro 2 Bluetooth earbuds are among a half-dozen gadgets OnePlus launched at its Cloud 11 event. These earbuds intend to elevate your sound experience with a rich and highly customizable audio profile, Google's Fast Pair support, high-fidelity (Hi-Fi) audio through the LDAC and LHDC Bluetooth audio codecs, Dolby Audio, and noise cancellation.
While these features have essentially been carried over -- and slightly improved -- over the first generation of the OnePlus Buds Pro launched last year, the Buds Pro 2 are equipped with spatial audio capabilities that help create a realistic and experiential 3D audio space around you. Along with spatial audio, the earbuds also support head tracking to simulate an ambiance that changes as you move your head around.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
