Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Phones Best Tablets Tesla Phone Download Android 14 Best Android Phones Home Mobile Amazfit GTR 3 Pro hands-on review: Dreamy hardware with early software woes By Andy Boxall Close $230.00 Want a smartwatch that works with either iOS or Android, has a very pretty design, is well-made, and has all the health tech you could want? That’s what the Amazfit GTR 3 Pro aims to offer, and after the success of the Amazfit GTR 2 smartwatch, we’ve got every confidence it can succeed.
Design Software Health tracking Battery Other models Price and availability Our take However, that success hasn’t quite been realized yet. I’ve been wearing the new GTR 3 Pro ahead of release, and there are still some teething problems with the software and the prerelease beta app. For this reason, we won’t be fully reviewing the smartwatch until we can try out the publicly released app, and receive any update coming for the watch itself.
Consider this an in-depth hands-on based on about four days of use across both iOS and Android , with our final score and recommendations coming later. For now, we have entered a preliminary score of 6-out-of-10, but expect this to change after more comprehensive testing.
TicWatch Pro 3 Ultra hands-on review: Amazing battery life Oppo’s Android 12-based ColorOS 12 is coming to the Find X3 Pro in December Samsung Galaxy Z Flip 3 vs. iPhone 12 Pro Max Design The Amazfit GTR 3 Pro is made from aluminum alloy with a 2.5D curved piece of tempered glass over the 1.45-inch screen, attached to a fluoroelastomer strap. It weighs 58 grams with the strap and is about 12mm thick, with a 45mm case diameter. There are two buttons on the side, set at 2 o’clock and 4 o’clock, with the top acting like a crown, so rotating it scrolls through menus. Press the bottom one, and you’re taken to the Workout menu by default, but this can be changed in the app.
Andy Boxall/Digital Trends It’s a very pretty smartwatch. There’s no pretense here. It doesn’t try to look like a chronograph or a diver’s watch, it doesn’t go overboard with unnecessary design flourishes, and it doesn’t needlessly increase the price by using materials like sapphire or titanium in an effort to be “premium.” Instead, you get a subtle, stylish smartwatch that makes no secret of being a smartwatch.
The GTR 3 Pro has has neatly worked itself into my everyday life so far, in terms of style and fit.
The 2.5D glass is smooth to the touch and easy to swipe on, and the rotating crown works well for zipping through the smartwatch’s vertically scrolling menus. The press action feels cheap, though, and it’s a shame the case back is made from plastic. The 22mm strap is attached using quick-release pins, making it slightly quicker to change out for an alternative.
Andy Boxall/Digital Trends I’ve found it comfortable to wear during the day, but have not tried it overnight yet. The strap is fluted underneath to help avoid it getting sweaty, and it has a pleasant diamond-like pattern and plenty of tightly packed holes for precise adjustment. The GTR 3 Pro has neatly worked itself into my everyday life so far, in terms of style and fit.
Software Amazfit has introduced a new version of its Zepp OS software for the GTR 3 Pro, but the software doesn’t appear to be completely ready yet, and that’s why I’ve held off on giving the GTR 3 Pro a full review and final score. I’ve been using the watch ahead of its release with a beta version of the app, and there have been a few problems. For example, notifications would not activate at all when paired with the beta app on iOS 15 , but have been fine on Android.
 A few other odd things need fixing, too. For example, when connected to my Android phone , the watch asks for a passcode when I take it off, despite the fact that I have not actually set one.
Andy Boxall/Digital Trends It’s also quite slow to react, especially when you press the crown, including when trying to wake the screen up when it’s in ambient mode and when trying to select different features from the cards. All of its issues could be cured with a software update, and aren’t unusual when testing a new device ahead of its final release. I’m not going to judge the GTR 3 Pro’s software harshly yet, and will wait to use it with the final, publicly available app before completing this review.
There are still some things worth mentioning, though. The smartwatch has many features switched off by default, presumably in an effort to maximize battery life (or, depending on how you see it, for Amazfit to meet its own claims of how long the battery will last), and these include vibration alerts, the always-on screen, raise-to-wake, and all the automatic health sensor features. To get the most from the smartwatch, you’ll need all or most of these switched on, and you have to do so manually.
This is frustrating as it involves digging through the settings inside the app. Having everything turned on should be the default as it showcases how the smartwatch actually benefits you, rather than making it a silent partner on your wrist so it has a better chance of reaching bold claims about 12 days of battery use.
Previous Next 1 3 Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Let’s do some positives. It’s attractively designed, the fonts are clear and easy to read, there are tons of watch faces to choose from, and the cards accessed from left to right from the main dial are informative. As just hinted at, notifications are presented as little cards and they look great, but you can’t interact with them outside of deleting them, an action that’s at least then mirrored on your phone. Amazon Alexa is installed for assistant duties when the watch is online. However, at the moment the software’s poor speed and responsiveness blunts it, and it’s something I hope will improve following final software release.
Health tracking Amazfit’s new BioTracker PPG 3.0 sensor is on the back of the GTR 3 Pro, and it provides heart rate monitoring and SP02 blood oxygen levels, informing data for stress monitoring, sleep tracking, and breathing rate. Like previous Amazfit smartwatches, it provides Personal Activity Intelligence (PAI) data for workouts, plus there’s female cycle tracking, 150 workout modes including swimming, auto workout recognition, and a virtual pacer mode for running.
Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Probably the standout new feature is One Tap Measuring. Select this and in 45 seconds the watch will measure heart rate, blood oxygen, stress, and breath rate all in one go. The data is presented at a glance immediately after the test has run, but unfortunately, it’s not available again if you leave the screen or the watch goes to sleep, forcing you to either do another test or go to the individual apps in the main menu. It seems like a wasted opportunity not to make this a dedicated card somewhere.
Previous Next 1 5 Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Andy Boxall/Digital Trends After tracking a workout, another issue with the software was revealed, as the smartwatch refused to sync the data to the app. It obstinately tells you the record hasn’t been synced, but provides no advice to change this. I did find the workout display clear and easy to read while on the move, but the software’s slowness did mean I thought I’d started to track my walk, only to find out halfway through that it hadn’t actually recognized the input.
Battery I’ve used the Amazfit GTR 3 Pro for about four days and synced it with both an iPhone 13 Pro and a Nokia G50.
 Without the automatic health-tracking features active, but with the always-on screen and notifications activated, the battery has so far reached 60%. This suggests it will fall short of the 12 days of “normal” use estimate provided by Amazfit, but slightly exceed the six days of “heavy” use the company indicates is possible.
Other models The GTR 3 Pro is the top model in Amazfit’s new range, and it’s joined by two others, the GTR 3 and GTS 3. The GTR 3 is another round smartwatch, but with a 1.39-inch screen and a battery that’s claimed to last about 10 days with heavy use. The GTS 3 is a square smartwatch has a 1.75-inch screen, a very slim 8.9mm case, and a battery that’s expected to last for about six days of heavy use.
Price and availability The Amazfit GTR 3 Pro costs $230, while the GTR 3 and GTS 3 cost $180. The smartwatch will be available in the U.S., U.K, and parts of Europe through Amazfit’s own online store , and through Amazon.
Our take This is a review on progress, so at this point, we can’t make a recommendation of whether you should buy the Amazfit GTR 3 Pro or not. The software and app are the problems at the moment, but the issues I’ve discovered so far could all realistically be solved with an update. Remember, I am using the smartwatch ahead of release, and with beta software.
The positive news is the hardware is very good. I really like the design and the low weight, which makes it wearable each day and with almost any outfit, too. The screen is really bright and very detailed, making menus and workout information easy to read whatever the conditions, and I love the way the always-on watch faces blend into the inky blackness of the display.
Remember, I am using the smartwatch ahead of release, and with beta software.
I was a fan of the Amazfit GTR 2 and the even cheaper GTR 2e , and am hopeful Amazfit updates the software very quickly to unlock the potential of the new GTR 3 Pro. One important thing to note is that the GTR 2e was a great buy, and this experience suggests you could probably get away with eventually buying the cheaper GTR 3 and not the GTR 3 Pro, and likely have almost the same ownership experience.
That’s something to think about once our full review has been completed. For now, take a look at our list of the best smartwatches you can buy if you can’t wait to grab yourself a new model.
Editors' Recommendations Amazfit GTR 4 and GTS 4: everything we know so far DJI Mavic 3 hands-on review: The long-awaited return of the king iPhone 13 Pro Max vs. Samsung Galaxy Z Fold 3 The Poco M3 Pro 5G is the latest low-cost 5G phone to use the MediaTek 700 chip Amazfit GTR 2e, GTS 2e smartwatches strip out some tech to get price to just $140 Wearables Product Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Wearable Reviews Wearables Wearables Mobvoi says its new TicWatch 3 Pro smartwatch its most advanced model yet, and a big part of this bold statement is that it’s the first to be officially announced with the Qualcomm Snapdragon Wear 4100 chipset inside. The hope is the new chip will give watches with Google's Wear OS software a serious boost in performance. Aside from what we’re expecting from the new chip, the TicWatch 3 Pro itself is exciting, as it's thinner, lighter, stronger, and has a higher battery capacity than the previous version.
Mobile The Huawei P30 Pro is a hard act to follow. It had everything we wanted from a phone, from slick design and beautiful colors, to a trendsetting camera and, of course, Google Play installed.
It successor, the Huawei P40 Pro, is now here. Despite trying times for Huawei, the new phone manages to push technical boundaries, particularly with its camera. It also challenges the established method of discovering and downloading the apps we want.
Mobile Oppo makes great hardware, but the company's software often leaves a lot to be desired. I’ve bemoaned it for a while, and I was often glad to swap the SIM out of an Oppo review phone once I was done evaluating it. Oppo has heard this criticism, and it’s changing course. Color OS 7, its latest user interface built on Android 10, looks promising, and the new Reno 3 Pro is the first Oppo phone I’ve used with it on board.
Here’s why it’s a serious improvement over previous Oppo software.
Color OS 7 is much improved At first glance, the differences between Color OS 6 and Color OS 7 are subtle. It’s only when you start using the software that the improvements become obvious. It’s cleaner, more minimalist, and less needlessly colorful. It's more spacious, creating a modern, pleasant interface that works well but has just enough character to look sleek.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
