Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Mobile Fitbit Sense review: One of the best wearable sleep trackers By Patrick Hearn Close $300.00 Affordable Detailed sleep tracking Includes Alexa and Google Assistant integration Great social integration Attractive design Clasp could use improvement On-watch button was unresponsive Some features locked behind a subscription Fitbit is one of the most well-known names in the fitness-tracking business, and for good reason: It combines a brilliant UI and attractive design to appeal to a wide range of people. The Fitbit Sense is no exception. It’s range of features and top-notch sleep tracking make it an easy choice for someone looking for a smart fitness watch at a lower price point than something like a Garmin.
Design Sleep and health tracking Day-to-day performance Social aspects Our take Design Image used with permission by copyright holder The first thing that jumps out about the Fitbit Sense is its design. It has a clean, streamlined build that’s square with rounded edges. It’s not as bulky or gear-like in shape as something like the Garmin Epix , which makes it much more suitable for day-to-day wear, even in more formal environments. Swapping the bands is simple, too.
The back of the Sense is made of metal, which might cause a few problems if you’re allergic. I couldn’t get an answer as to the type of metal, but I did notice a bit of skin irritation after prolonged wear.
One thing to note is that the default band is on the smaller side. If you have larger wrists, you’ll need to trade out the bands for the longer option or it will be too tight (which aside from being uncomfortable can throw off sensor readings.) The latch also annoyed me; it slips through one loop and hooks into a hole on the band, while the excess length slides through a second loop. It wasn’t the easiest to put on or off.
If you have larger wrists, you’ll need to trade out the bands for the longer option or it will be too tight.
While navigating the Fitbit from the watch face is easy, I sometimes found the activation button to be slightly unresponsive, especially when I was sweaty. It also activated by accident on several occasions.
Sleep and health tracking The Fitbit Sense excels at tracking vital information. There are four main areas it focuses on: Minutes in the “zone,” number of steps and floors, miles traveled, and calories burned. It also tracks the amount of time you spend asleep, as well as how much time you spend in each stage of sleep.
Fitbit The standard watch face shows you the date, time, number of steps, your sleep score, and your current heart rate. There are multiple faces to choose from, and Fitbit can sync up with your phone to display your calendar, incoming texts and calls, and more.
The Fitbit Sense excels at tracking vital information.
Within the Fitbit app, you can log fluid and calorie intake, set a goal weight, and more. Fitbit reminds you to get up and move, and tries to get you take at least 250 steps each hour.
The Fitbit Sense also has stress management features. It allows you to log how you’re feeling at a given moment to to track your stress throughout the day. If you subscribe to Fitbit Premium, you will have access to even more features that break down your stress management response.
Fitbit Premium is $10 per month or $80 per year. When you purchase a new device, it comes with a six-month free trial to test it out. The subscription includes content from numerous Fitbit partners, including Popsugar, Aura, and more.
It also provides users with more detailed sleep tools, advanced insights into your health, better stress and mindfulness tools, and additional games and challenges to keep you motivated. Premium subscribers get access to information like their breathing rate, heart rate variability, skin temperature, oxygen saturation, and more.
Day-to-day performance One area where the Fitbit Sense stands out from equivalent Garmin products is in its sleep tracking. While the Garmin struggled to keep up with irregular sleep patterns (especially if I woke up in the middle of the night and go back to sleep), the Fitbit Sense’s automatic detection was much more accurate. It calculates an overall sleep score based on how much I sleep throughout the day. If I only get six hours at night, but take an hour long nap later in the day, it updates the score to reflect that.
With a six-day battery life, I never worried about it running out of charge throughout the day. It only takes a short time to fully charge the Fitbit once it dies.
One of the most useful features is the ability to tap any health metric and get more information on what it means. So many fitness wearables have their own names for each section that it can be hard to keep track, but Fitbit makes it easy to know what you’re looking at.
One of the most useful features is the ability to tap any health metric and get more information on what it means.
For example, “Zone Minutes” is the number of minutes you spent in the Active Zone, or the heart rate range that counts toward exercise. The American Heart Association recommends at least 150 minutes of moderate exercise each week, and the Sense helps you track your progress toward that goal.
If you previously owned a Fitbit, your information is still available. When I activated the Sense and started tracking data, I found information from 2015 and earlier — the last time I wore a Fitbit. Of course, some of the information was lacking (the earlier models didn’t have the same trackers as the ones I wear now).
One final feature to note is that the Fitbit Sense integrates with Alexa and Google Assistant.
 With a tap of a button, I can give voice commands to my smart assistants from my wrist — a far easier alternative than pulling up the respective apps while on the go.
Social aspects The Fitbit app includes a Community tab that lets you find a sort of social network for nearly any type of fitness you can think of. It suggests groups based on your activity within the app; for example, it recommended the Sleep Well and Vegetarian groups for me. The Sleep Well group is full of people posting their previous nights’ sleep scores and comparing progress in achieving a good night’s rest, while the Vegetarian group includes pictures of meals and recipe ideas.
You can link your phone’s Contacts with Fitbit to search for any friends who are on the app. You can also individually add people through email or by their username. Keeping in touch with your friends on the app can help keep you motivated.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Other great motivational and social aspects are the Badges and Trophies. These are awards you get for meeting specific fitness goals. For example, the Sneakers Badge is awarded if you walk 10,000 steps in a day. The Penguin March Badge is earned if you walk 70 miles in a lifetime, and the Lighthouse Badge is earned if you walk up more than 50 flights of stairs in one day.
These can be earned more than once and put on display on your profile.
Trophies are earned by completing challenges against other people. You don’t have to be connected with others to participate; instead, the app compares your progress to everyone else in the challenge. The Daily Showdown Challenge, for example, awards the trophy to whoever walks the most steps in one day in a given time zone.
Our take The Fitbit Sense streamlines vital health tracking into an approachable platform, and its automatic detection makes it perfect for anyone trying to improve their sleep habits. While the interface can seem a little confusing at first, it’s actually easier to navigate that some of the comparable platforms on the market (like Garmin and its two separate apps).
Is there a better alternative? The Fitbit Sense is an appealing choice because it’s so affordable. At just $300, there aren’t a lot of options with the same level of performance. If you want a smartwatch, the Apple Watch Series 7 is $350. The Garmin Lily has a more attractive design that looks the most like an actual watch of any fitness wearable I’ve ever seen, and it’s just $200.
How long will it last? The Fitbit Sense is durable, and the screen hasn’t gotten scratched in the time I’ve used it. I suspect it will last for several years at least of day-to-day use. Fitbit offers a 45-day money-back guarantee for all purchases from its website, and the Sense comes with a one-year limited warranty in case something does happen.
Should you buy it? Yes. At $300, the detailed health and sleep tracking can’t be beat. It’s a far more affordable option than many fitness trackers on the market, and the social community aspect means you’ll have workout partners from around the globe — as well as an attractive watch for daily wear.
Editors' Recommendations The future of Fitbit doesn’t look good Best Fitbit deals: Nearly every fitness tracker model is on sale The best fitness trackers in 2023: 12 best ones you can buy Fitbit is reportedly working on a game-changing wearable for kids The best mental health wearables to help with stress Health & Fitness Smart Home Fitbit Product Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Wearable Reviews Wearables Deals Are you looking for hot Fitbit deals for yourself or maybe as gifts for others? Well, pay attention because Amazon's two-day Prime Early Access Sale is almost over, it's the last day, which means all those amazing Prime Day Fitbit deals will be gone soon. Amazon calls it an "early access" sale because it gives you an extra-early start at shopping for the holidays well before the annual Black Friday extravaganza. Similar to Prime Day deals, we've seen tons of deep discounts on Amazon-owned brand products such as Echo, Ring, and Blink smart home devices, Kindles, Fire TVs, and Eero mesh Wi-Fi devices. Smartwatches and activity trackers are popular holiday gifts, and Amazon is offering some of the best prices of the year on new Fitbits as well as previous models of the popular wrist wearables.
Amazon isn't the only one having all of the fun though. Other retailers have joined in, as is to be expected, like Walmart's October Rollbacks event, which is basically just a Walmart Prime Day sale in disguise. Nevertheless, Amazon has some of the best offers! We've gathered up the best Prime Day Fitbit deals for you below! Today's best Prime Day Fitbit deals Fitbit Charge 5 -- $150, was $180 Mobile Fitbit is back with two new health-focused smartwatches, the Fitbit Versa 4 and the Fitbit Sense 2. Both watches are well-designed tools with health-tracking features, superseding the Fitbit Versa 3 and the original Sense.
While Google purchased Fitbit in the interim between both releases, these still use the company's proprietary Fitbit OS in lieu of Wear OS 3. For that, you'll need to get the Pixel Watch, the Samsung Galaxy Watch 5, or the Montblanc Summit 3. Instead, these releases from Fitbit iterate and refine what made their previous models so good. The good batteries and handsome designs remain, accompanied by changes to heft and feel and minor software tweaks here and there. With so much overlap, there's a question to be raised about which of the two is the better fit for your wrist and wallet, so which is better for you? We found out.
Specs Mobile Fitbit's lineup of smartwatches and fitness trackers is getting larger just in time for the holiday season, with the company announcing the Fitbit Versa 4, Fitbit Sense 2, and Fitbit Inspire 3. The Versa and Sense continue Fitbit's smartwatch focus, while the Inspire remains one of the go-to choices for anyone who wants to eschew too many smart features for a sleeker design and smaller price. And they're likely to be among the best Fitbit wearables you can buy this year.
Right off the bat, none of these wearables are significant new additions to Fitbit's portfolio. They're all very similar to their predecessors, but with a few minor tweaks here and there to make them better than before. And, no, none of the new smartwatches are running Wear OS. Fitbit has made some intriguing hardware and software upgrades across the board, but this latest launch is clearly focused on evolution rather than revolution.
Fitbit Versa 4 Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
