Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Phones Best Tablets Tesla Phone Download Android 14 Best Android Phones Home Mobile Garmin Enduro review: Long-lasting sports watch for long-distance fanatics By Kelly Hodgkins Close $799.00 Mind-blowing battery life Outdoors-focused sports tracking Comfortable nylon strap Roomy, readable display No topographical maps Expensive cost Fitness watches keep you on track during a long run, but powering such a watch is a challenge. Long-distance runners sometimes carry a charging cable and bulky portable batteries to keep their watch charged. Enter the Garmin Enduro, the latest sports watch from Garmin , which boasts an incredible 70-hour runtime on a single charge. Is the Enduro a game changer for the ultra running crowd or just hype? Solid design, susceptible to scratches Chunky but comfortable design Fitness tracking for outdoors folks Limited smartwatch features Mind-blowing battery life Solar provides a power boost Missing maps and music Our take Solid design, susceptible to scratches The Garmin Enduro is a hybrid watch that borrows heavily from both the brand’s outdoors-focused Fenix line and the Forerunner running watches. The Enduro has a rugged stainless steel bezel and metal-polymer casing that holds up against the elements. I’ve used it for hiking, biking, and rock scrambling, and I still have yet to scratch the watch’s body.
Image used with permission by copyright holder I can’t say the same about the corning Gorilla Glass 3 display. After about a month, the watch has a few light, superficial scratches. I likely got them from some rugged rock scrambling or from sticking my hand through spokes, pedals, and chains while fixing my bike. The scratches don’t affect performance and are visible only at an angle.
Garmin’s newest smartwatch could replace your Apple Watch The Garmin Vivomove Trend is a powerful smartwatch with a sleek disguise Luxury Garmin Marq smartwatches are even more focused than the Apple Watch Ultra The Enduro has a color display, but don’t expect to be blown away by a rich, colorful interface. Color is used judiciously to either display critical stats or convey information. The 1.4-inch display is easy to read in the sunlight and big enough that you can check your stats without slowing down.
Chunky but comfortable design The Enduro rivals the Fenix series in size, but surpasses it in comfort. Instead of the standard elastomer sports band, the Enduro is equipped with a very comfortable nylon strap. The strap wraps around your wrist and secures with Velcro. The strap cuts down on sweat and doesn’t chafe my wrist like other sport bands.
Image used with permission by copyright holder If you don’t like the nylon strap, you can easily swap it out for another version. Like the Fenix, the Enduro is a bit chunky, especially for smaller wrists, but it is relatively lightweight, with the steel version weighing 71 grams.
Fitness tracking for outdoors folks The Garmin Enduro tracks a wide range of activities including hiking, trail running, mountain biking, and other outdoorsy activities. Like most Garmin watches, the Enduro quickly snatches a satellite signal and holds it securely even in thick woods. It is chock-full of metrics, like ClimbPro, which lets you know when you are about to hit a steep ascent, and a Trail VO2 max calculation that takes elevation into account. The Enduro is overkill for gym-goers and yoga fans, but hardcore outdoor enthusiasts will appreciate these extras when they are climbing mountains and putting in the miles.
Limited smartwatch features The Garmin Enduro is packed with fitness and outdoor-centric features, but its smartwatch features are limited. You can receive incoming phone calls and notifications, but you cannot respond unless you have an Android phone. Even on Android, you can only respond to text messages.
Thanks to its widget-based interface, you can view the weather, sunrise/sunset times, and upcoming calendar events. The Enduro supports Garmin’s Connect IQ app repository, but most of the available apps are wellness- or music-oriented and don’t add to the watch’s already robust multisports feature set.
Mind-blowing battery life I thought Coros Vertix and Suunto 9 had outstanding battery life, but the Enduro blew both of them away. Under normal usage, the Enduro consistently lasted more than a month between charges. Charging was an afterthought — something I did only when the watch reminded me when it was getting low. The worst part was finding my charging cable after not using it for 30-plus+ days.
The Enduro lets you explore for days and weeks on end without a power source Unlike the Apple Watch , I never had to worry about battery life, even with full GPS and fitness tracking enabled. I used the Enduro while hiking on both day trips and multiday overnight trips. A daylong hike in GPS mode barely made a dent in the battery life. It was so freeing to not have to worry about running out of juice before my hike was over. I didn’t have to carry a charging cable or power source on a multiday trip, either. I turned off GPS tracking at the end of each day and still had plenty of battery to spare after four days.
Solar provides a power boost Battery life is boosted further by an integrated solar cell that rings the bezel and is embedded underneath the glass display. The Power Glass technology is designed to provide only supplemental power, so don’t rely on it to fully charge your watch. You need to be outside for a while in the sun to see any difference. I saw little difference on short excursions in the wood, but it did help battery life on a daylong hike in the bright sun.
Missing maps and music The Enduro’s mind-blowing battery life comes with a cost. Garmin had to trim battery-hogging features, like navigation and music, which are found on the Fenix 6 and Forerunner 945 models. You get breadcrumb tracking and uploadable routes on the Enduro, but you won’t get the detail-rich topographical maps you find on the Forerunner 945 or the Fenix 6 Pro. Also missing is music storage. Yes, you can control music playback on your phone using the Enduro, but you cannot use the watch as a stand-alone music player.
Our take Battery life is the killer feature for the Garmin Enduro. If you hike, bike, or run long distances, then the Enduro is a no-brainer. The sports watch is comfortable to wear and the battery lasts forever. You won’t have to carry the extra weight of a battery pack or charging cables, nor worry about how you’re going to run and charge simultaneously. Its hefty cost of $800 cost may be a tough sell for some people, but it certainly covers everything that an outdoor enthusiast craves.
Is there a better alternative? The Garmin Enduro is a niche product meant for endurance runners, bikers, and hikers. Unless you want extended battery life, you should save some cash and add some features with a Fenix or Forerunner series watch. The Fenix has mapping and more advanced navigation features that may be more appealing than battery life to an outdoors enthusiast. Likewise, the Forerunner 945 has more advanced running metrics for those who run for hours, not days.
How long will it last? Garmin’s outdoor watches are known for their rugged construction, and the Enduro is no exception. The stainless steel casing resists scratches, and the nylon strap fastens securely. We did get a few light scratches on the display from scrambling up rocks or repairing a bike, but you can slap on a screen protector. Garmin has a one-year warranty that covers defects in manufacturing or workmanship.
Should you buy it? If battery life is at the top of your list, then go with the Garmin Enduro. The Enduro will blow away Garmin’s other watches and even those from competitors like Suunto or Polar.
Editors' Recommendations Garmin just launched a new $300 Apple Watch alternative Garmin’s newest smartwatches steal one of the Apple Watch’s best features You can finally take ECGs and track AFib on a Garmin smartwatch Garmin Watch Prime Day Live Blog: The lowest prices today The best Garmin watches of 2022 Health & Fitness Outdoors Wearables Product Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Wearable Reviews Wearables Mobile Garmin has a new watch made specifically with airplane pilots in mind. The new Garmin D2 Mach 1 is similar in many ways to the Garmin Epix Gen 2, which Digital Trends writer Patrick Hearn declared “the Ultimate Fitness Watch” in his review last month. The D2 Mach 1 builds on the excellent foundation of that smartwatch and the recently announced Garmin D2 Air x10 by adding pilot-centric features, among other major upgrades.
The D2 Mach 1 is built from premium materials, such as sapphire and titanium, and features a new touchscreen interface and 1.3-inch AMOLED display that pairs with physical button controls. The aforementioned pilot-focused features include a moving map with NEXRAD radar overlaid on your route, direct-to navigation capabilities that allow pilots to navigate straight to an airport or waypoint, and aviation weather with graphical indications of MOS forecasts for specific airports.
Mobile Garmin today introduced a new smartwatch aimed at pilots and people who love flying. With the Garmin D2 Air X10, a successor to the older D2 Air, the company has built a typical smartwatch experience with a discrete aviation mode that builds in features that pilots would find necessary as well as added a little extra on the top.
The Garmin D2 Air X10 has one major upgrade over the previous D2 Air model -- the inclusion of voice functionality. Allowing pilots to keep their hands free while on the go, the D2 Air X10 can now be used in tandem with your phone's digital assistant, (Siri or Google Assistant depending on whether you use iOS or Android) to dictate texts and ask the typical queries you'd want to know as an air enthusiast. With a starting price of $550, it's probably worth considering if the existing Garmin D2 Air is a better fit with its $500 price point.
Mobile Garmin has started the year with a bang with the launch of the Garmin Venu 2 Plus and the Garmin Vivomove Sport at CES 2022. The Venu 2 Plus will be priced at $450, with the Vivomove Sport available for $180.The Venu 2 Plus is a part of the existing Venu 2 smartwatch series. It is currently available in three colors -- a silver-colored bezel with a powder gray case, a slate-stained bezel with a black case, and a cream gold bezel with a pure ivory color case. It has a 1.3-inch AMOLED display with 416×416 pixel resolution. The always-on-display would be an additional feature, apart from Corning Gorilla Glass 3 for protection.
A close-up look of the Garmin Vivomove Sport's dial. Andy Boxall/Digital Trends What separates the Venu 2 Plus from the Venu 2 series is its ability to take voice calls and the voice assistant feature that uses a built-in speaker and microphone. All of the fitness-tracking features from the Venu 2 series are present in its Plus model, including multiple outdoor workout modes. A single charge on the Venu 2 Plus helps it last for eight or nine days in GPS + Music mode. Its rapid charging feature helps the watch to last for an additional day after just a 10-minute charge. The Vivomove Sport is the latest model in Garmin's hybrid watch series, with the Vivomove Style model being one of its earliest devices during the series launch in September 2019. It is a hybrid smartwatch that comes in four colors. Its 40mm OLED display will be paired with silicone straps. The top half of the watch has an analog design, with the bottom half's touchscreen parameters visible. While you're interacting with the touchscreen, the watch hands move away for a bit to show regular details such as the heart rate, step count, and oxygen saturation levels (SpO2). The Vivomove Sport can track multiple fitness exercises and can be connected to a phone's GPS for tracking. While it cannot receive or place a call, it can receive incoming calls and message alerts. The phone has six days of battery life in analog watch mode, while it runs for a full five days in smartwatch mode.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
