Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Phones Best Tablets Tesla Phone Download Android 14 Best Android Phones Home Mobile Garmin Venu 2 Plus review: Premium in all the right ways By Adam Doud Close $449.99 Rock-solid connectivity Phone calls and assistant Battery life Strong GPS A ton of data High price Unintuitive UI Missing some services I think it’s very important that we get this review started off on the right foot by saying I am not the target audience for the Garmin Venu 2 Plus. I’m on the wrong side of 300 pounds, and the wrong side of 40, though it’s much more the former that disqualifies me. My idea of a great workout is parking down the block to go to the donut shop. So when Garmin reached out and asked me if I’d like to review their latest smartwatch, of course, I jumped at the chance. Well, I didn’t jump, because fat men don’t jump, but you get the idea.
Design and comfort Software and connectivity Health and fitness tracking Performance and battery Price and availability Our take I’ve been using the Garmin Venu 2 Plus for two weeks, and despite the fact that I am not the ideal Garmin wearer, I can see where this watch is the ideal smartwatch for me. For most of my review period, I wore the Garmin smartwatch paired to a Pixel 6 while also wearing an Apple Watch SE paired to an iPhone 13 Pro for comparison purposes.
OnePlus Nord CE 2 5G has 65W charging, coming on February 17 Forget waiting! Here’s all the CES 2022 tech you can buy right now You’ll have to imagine how fun the new OnePlus Nord 2 x Pac-Man phone looks Here are my thoughts.
Design and comfort Adam Doud/Digital Trends The Garmin Venu 2 Plus has a bright and crisp 1.3-inch AMOLED screen that is bright and easy to read in all situations. It’s comfortable to wear, though it is a bit on the thicker side. The three buttons along the side are easy to push and give the right amount of feedback when pressed. Each button has its own function, from starting activities to accessing menus, but what’s new to the Venu series are the microphone and speaker.
The Venu 2 Plus is the first Venu smartwatch to make and receive phone calls and control your phone’s assistant.
The Venu 2 Plus is the first Venu smartwatch to make and receive phone calls and control your phone’s assistant. This is actually the feature I was most excited to test because I use Google Assistant often throughout the day. Also, especially since picking up the Apple Watch SE, I’ve gotten very used to leaving my phone at my desk as I move around the house and take calls on my watch.
Using the assistant is similar to most other smartwatches, with the exception of being able to wake them up with a command word. On the Venu 2 Plus, you need to press and hold the center button for several seconds for it to connect. It’s a little slower than I’d like (about three seconds), but it’s not terrible by any measure. Verbal responses play back through the watch, as you’d expect when accessing Google Assistant through a watch or headphones.
 Overall, it’s a seamless experience.
Software and connectivity The one thing I enjoyed most about the watch is absolute rock-solid connectivity. As mentioned, I wore both the Apple Watch SE and Garmin Venu 2 Plus at the same time, and both watches rang for notifications at the same time, every single time. I’ve come to expect that kind of connectivity from the Apple Watch. Apple is Apple, after all. But on so many smartwatches and fitness trackers, frequent disconnects can be problematic. This even happens when wearing a Samsung smartwatch with a Samsung phone. But the Garmin stayed connected all the time, even if my phone was a house away.
The software on the Venu 2 Plus takes some getting used to, though. Most smartwatches utilize gestures in every single direction for different things. The Garmin sticks mostly to up and down, with only occasional sideswipes. The buttons all have different functions and rely on a press or long press for different functions. I get that there’s only so much you can program three buttons to do, but even by the end of my two-week review period, I still wasn’t used to all the functions.
Notifications are rich and detailed. The only criticism I could point out is that the notification icons are limited. Notifications for weather, Google Photos, and Vivint home security all show up with the Messages icon. Indeed, the icons that work and don’t work are quite varied. It can get a little confusing when trying to locate specific messages. Also, some options to act on messages are not straightforward. For example, when you choose to reply to an email, the phone launches the reply window. Replying to a text message is limited to a few preprogrammed responses.
The Garmin app store has a decent number of apps and watch faces that feel consistent with other app stores, including Samsung and Google Play, and far outshines most fitness trackers, like Fitbit and Xiaomi. Supported music services include Spotify and Deezer, but YouTube Music is missing. Sadly, that’s the service I subscribe to. Of course, app functionality pales in comparison to the Apple Watch , but that would assume both of those devices are looking to service the same customer, which they are not.
Health and fitness tracking Before we dive into the fitness-tracking aspects of this watch, we should pause to talk about philosophies. Apple places a strong emphasis on health tracking and data, for sure. But Garmin hasn’t set out to make a smartwatch. It set out to make a health tracker first that happens to work with your smartphone.
 That shows in areas like the Garmin Connect app, which is dedicated to providing you as much data as you could possibly want. Also, the Garmin Venu 2 Plus tracks your heartbeat multiple times per second, as opposed to once per second, or even once every few minutes.
Sleep data, in particular, is great information to have, and unlike with the Apple Watch, tracking sleep doesn’t cut your battery life in half or more.
While I lack the professional equipment to reliably track some exercise data (e.g., a chest strap, BMI scale, O2 sensors, etc.), the data I got from the Garmin smartwatch is valuable. Sleep data, in particular, is great information to have, and unlike with the Apple Watch, tracking sleep doesn’t cut your battery life in half or more. For those really into collecting data, the watch can handle input for tracking water consumption or women’s health as well. Those have to be entered manually, of course, but it’s nice to have all that information in one dashboard.
Image used with permission by copyright holder When you engage in exercise, which for me involves a walk around the block, you get even more data, including a map of your route, speed, average heart rate, ascents, pace, and more. The Apple Watch gives you similar data, both in bed and out on the trail. Apple even adds other protection such as AFib detection and fall detection, both of which are important from a day-to-day safety standpoint. Garmin has a feature that detects high-G events (read: falls) while performing a measured activity where emergency contacts are notified if you trip and fall while out on a run. That’s nice, but it’s only during measured activities, not all the time.
Performance and battery Put simply, battery life is astonishing. Garmin advertises around nine days of battery life, with a full AMOLED display and heart tracking that measures several times per second. The battery will get chewed up if you add in GPS and music streaming, but for everyday wearing, this watch just keeps going.
Testing it alongside the Apple Watch SE, the difference in battery life was sobering. I had to top up the SE almost daily. By contrast, during my two-week review period, I charged the Garmin watch just twice. Even before I set up the Apple Watch SE for sleep tracking, it maxed out at two days before needing the charger.
Adam Doud/Digital Trends In fact, when speaking to Garmin about my upcoming Disney trip, they challenged me to start a walking activity with full GPS at the start of a day in the park and check out the data available at the end of the day. The battery can handle constant GPS contact and aggressive health measurements throughout a full day. While this review was written prior to that vacation, I’ll be testing that out.
When I first started using the Apple Watch, I marveled at how Apple was able to create apps that were so full-featured compared to the rest of the field. The Garmin Venu 2 Plus offers an equally eye-opening experience in terms of battery life. Even if you turn on the GPS and play music constantly, you’ll still get eight hours. Nothing else I’ve tested before comes close.
Price and availability The Garmin Venu 2 Plus launches on January 4, 2022, and can be purchased from Garmin for a fairly high price of $450. Garmin is quick to point out that all the health tracking you get comes with no subscription, which is fine, but Garmin has a legacy of high-priced hardware, and the Venu 2 Plus definitely continues that.
Our take Overall, the biggest thing about the Garmin Venu 2 Plus that gives me pause is the price, but again, this is coming from a guy who doesn’t work out. Still, the battery life is awesome, the connectivity is hard to beat, and the added ability to take phone calls and use a voice assistant really completes the package for me. There are cheaper alternatives out there, and just like the Apple Watch SE taught me that apps are important, the Garmin Venu 2 Plus taught me that battery life is very important as well.
From a software perspective, the Garmin has a high learning curve, but once you get it down, it’s easy to use and surprisingly robust. Getting notifications the moment they hit your phone and being able to act on them is often not as smooth on devices that are meant to be a smartwatch first, and a fitness tracker second. Garmin really has a complete package with very few compromises here.
There’s no doubt it’s a premium device after a niche clientele. Garmin is the go-to in the fitness world, even above the Apple Watch, and it’s not hard to see why. In addition to being a device dedicated to tracking your health, with a range of accessories to assist with that, you also get a fully functional smartwatch that gets those basics right as well. That makes the Venu 2 Plus a compelling product if you have the budget for it.
Adam Doud/Digital Trends Is there a better alternative? If you fall into the category of customer that Garmin is after, no. This is it, with the exception, perhaps, ofother Garmin offerings. If you’re a general smartwatch user, the answer becomes less clear. If you’re on an iPhone, yes, the Apple Watch Series 7 is in many ways better, with the one notable exception of battery life. In the world of Android , the waters become murkier. The Samsung Watch 4 with Google and Samsung’s new take on WearOS is quite appealing. In terms of less expensive options, boy, howdy, there are choices. But none of them will measure up.
How long will it last? Garmin products have a reputation for build quality, and I can confirm the same on this smartwatch. The watch has a Gorilla Glass 3 face and can be worn for swimming up to 5 ATMs or about 50 meters. Garmin products are typically backed by a one-year warranty as well.
Should you buy it? Yes. The Venu 2 Plus is a fine smartwatch, and it’s not even meant to be a smartwatch. Putting the PR speak aside, this is a really nice wearable that gives you a ton of health data and functionality in a single, admittedly expensive package. If you are into exercise (which some might argue is different from “fitness”), this watch is a no-brainer. If you want a smartwatch that lasts more than a weekend, you got it. If you aren’t positive your next smartphone will run the same operating system as your current one, this watch works both ways. Your bank account may not be a huge fan, but there is a lot for you to love here.
Editors' Recommendations You can finally take ECGs and track AFib on a Garmin smartwatch OnePlus Nord CE 2 Lite 5G gets leaked ahead of launch Garmin launches the Venu 2 Plus and Vivomove Sport at CES 2022 Fashionable Garmin Venu 2 offers up to 11 days of battery in smartwatch mode Wearables Product Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Wearable Reviews Wearables Mobile Google's popular line of Pixel devices includes smartphones, tablets, smartwatches, and wireless earbuds -- and they're all available with eye-catching discounts in this year's Black Friday deals. if you've had an eye on any one of them, you should take advantage of the offers that retailers have rolled out for the shopping holiday, and you need to act fast because stocks will run out quickly due to high demand. To help you out, we've rounded up our favorite Google Pixel Black Friday deals below.
Google Pixel Watch Black Friday deals The Google Pixel Watch 2 is already out, which means the Google Pixel Watch is a prime candidate for a discount on Black Friday. It's still a perfectly capable smartwatch though, even with the launch of its successor, as it runs on Google's Wear OS for access to a wide range of apps and health-monitoring features on your wrist. You need to push through with your purchase as soon as possible though, as stocks are already probably running low on most Black Friday smartwatch deals.
Mobile One of the biggest promises of 5G technology isn’t merely faster performance but rather the ability to power a far more connected world — a global network where every device can get online from just about anywhere.
That’s the vision behind MediaTek’s new M60 5G modem and T300 chip, which aim to be small and efficient enough to bring 5G to wearables, internet-of-things (IoT) devices, and other electronics that benefit from reliable internet connectivity but don’t require the massive speed and bandwidth of modern laptops and smartphones.
Reduced capability for greater efficiency Mobile Amazon Fire tablets may not be as powerful as Apple's iPads and Samsung's Galaxy Tabs, but they remain very popular among shoppers because they're relatively affordable options that provide sufficient performance for day-to-day use. If you want to stick to a tight budget when buying from Black Friday tablet deals, you should consider going for one of the several models of the Amazon Fire tablet, available in Amazon Black Friday deals. To help you make a quick decision so you can finalize your purchase before the discounts go offline, we've rounded up the most interesting Black Friday deals for Amazon Fire tablets, including our favorite bargain.
Amazon has a ton of early discounts right now, including Amazon Echo Black Friday deals and Amazon Fire TV Black Friday deals.
The best Amazon Fire tablet Black Friday deal Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
