Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Tesla Supercharger Reset Screen in Tesla Tesla Phone Tesla Roadster Tesla Model X vs Tesla Model Y Tesla Optimus Tesla Destination Chargers Home Mobile Sequent SuperCharger 2.1 Premium HR review: Infinite power, limited tech By Andy Boxall Close $482.00 Innovative kinetic energy system Doesn't need charging Sapphire crystal Great build quality and materials Basic fitness tracking Unreliable fitness data collection Uncomfortable Eco Tide strap The hybrid smartwatch is the alternative to a touchscreen smartwatch favored by those who aren’t prepared to give up that traditional, analog watch look, but still want a degree of connected ability. The Sequent SuperCharger 2.1 Premium HR takes this concept a step further, as it not only doesn’t look like a smartwatch, but it also uses a power-delivery system that shares more with an automatic timepiece than it does with an Apple Watch.
Design Power Smart features Price and availability Our take That means you never, ever need to charge this smartwatch, as it’s powered by the movement of your body. That’s hugely tempting, but what about the smart bit? It’s just as important on a hybrid as it is on a full smartwatch, and if anything, it’s far harder to implement well due to the watch not usually having a screen. The Sequent Supercharger 2.1 has the power, but does it have the smarts? Design I’ve been wearing the Sequent SuperCharger 2.1 Premium HR , the top model available from the company. It’s made from 316L stainless steel with an aluminum ring running around the 42mm case and sapphire crystal over the dial. It weighs about 77 grams with the strap, and is a substantial 14mm thick. This version has a blue dial, but you can also get versions with a white or a black dial. Turn the watch over and it has an open case back, showing the self-charging mechanism and its rotor, which I’ll come back to later, and in the center is the heart rate sensor. The crown is quite large, has a rubber cover over the sides, and Sequent’s logo on the end.
Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Sequent makes a big deal about the watch being designed in Switzerland — the mark of quality for traditional watches — but it doesn’t say it’s built in Switzerland, an important distinction. Nevertheless, it looks and feels very well made. The dial is fairly simple, with the brand name and markings stamped on it, and the polished baton indices only marking the hour. The baton hands have unfilled center sections, while the hand for the complication has a red arrow tip. It’s all rather minimalist, and reminds me of innumerable watches from MVMT, Daniel Wellington, and other such fashion brands.
It definitely doesn’t look like a normal smartwatch. There’s no screen, for a start, and the one complication doesn’t immediately give its high-tech credentials away. It’s a multipurpose indicator showing step count, power reserve, and heart rate. You have to look closely though, as the numbers are very small. There’s also a similarly tiny LED indicator light underneath the 12 o’clock mark, which only operates when the watch is syncing with your phone or performing an action.
Andy Boxall/Digital Trends The watch looks and feels well-constructed, and I like the open case back showing the rotor, which isn’t as beautiful as a mechanical movement, but has a certain techy charm to it. I don’t like the crown because it’s too big, something not helped by the useless rubber part around the edge, as you never need to turn the crown at all, making additional grip unnecessary. It’s also a thick watch, and the lugs mounted to the lower part of the case only accentuate the height.
I can live with the height of the SuperCharger 2.1, and the design, although simple, is still pleasing, but the Eco Tide strap is bad. It’s made from plastic waste taken from the ocean, which is excellent, but it’s incredibly unforgiving on your wrist. I’ve worn it for several weeks and I don’t think it has softened up at all — it’s just as uncomfortable now as it was on the first day. It’s not helped by an imprecise double-pin fastening, so the watch is either cutting off circulation or flopping over the side of your wrist. It’s attached using quick-release pins and, at 22mm, changing it for another strap isn’t difficult, but doing this should be because of a personal style preference, not because the supplied one is uncomfortable.
Andy Boxall/Digital Trends The Sequent SuperCharger 2.1 is a very modern-looking watch that will definitely appeal to those attracted to the minimalist watches commonly advertised on Instagram and by YouTube influencers. Just don’t order it with the Eco Tide strap.
Power Before talking about the smart features, let’s talk about the way the Sequent SuperCharger 2.1 is powered, as it’s far more technically impressive than anything else about it. Automatic timepieces convert kinetic energy from the movement of your body into power for the watch’s movement. The SuperCharger does the same thing, but rather than gears and springs, it uses a tungsten rotor to feed a micro-generator.
Andy Boxall/Digital Trends It’s a neat, high-tech, sustainable, and very hands-off approach to powering a piece of wearable tech. Sequent says the SuperCharger has an “infinite” power reserve, and I’ve worn it for several weeks, with a few days off, and the power available has not dropped below 95%, according to the app. When you don’t wear it, the watch will hibernate to conserve energy. With regular use, I doubt the SuperCharger 2.1 will ever run out of power.
If you don’t wear the watch for some time and the battery does fully run out, a charging pad is included in the box so you can get it going again. Unfortunately, this necessitates the inclusion of charge points on the watch’s case, which are found on the left-hand side and ruin the otherwise clean lines.
Previous Next 1 5 Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Unusually, you can “feel” the rotor inside the SuperCharger working as it spins. It’s not distracting, and doesn’t make an audible sound unless you hold it to your ear, but it’s not something you find with a mechanical automatic watch. I quite liked the sensation, as it made the SuperCharger feel like a living thing, but I’ve gradually gotten used to it and rarely feel it anymore.
The Sequent SuperCharger really is a smartwatch you don’t have to charge, and that will be a considerable benefit to anyone put off by smartwatches in general due to the necessity of daily charging.
Smart features The lack of any need to charge it is the Sequent SuperCharger’s first step on the road to being a successful smartwatch, but the smart functionality needs to be just as compelling. This is not an Apple Watch competitor and makes no secret of the fact, but unfortunately, it’s not a competitor to any other hybrid watch either, due to tech that feels years out of date.
Previous Next 1 3 Daily step count Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Workout data Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Settings page Andy Boxall/Digital Trends It has basic fitness tracking and does not deliver notifications, or have a haptic motor. This in itself isn’t a bad thing, but the operation of the watch and the accompanying app both feel old and clunky compared to the competition. Don’t expect anything like individual workout plans, information like step cadence, or in-depth analysis of data collected.
Starting a workout requires pressing the crown for two seconds until the LED flashes blue, the hands rotate, and the LED goes purple. To end the session, you press the crown three times. It’s a little bit more complex than it needs to be, but worse is that it doesn’t seem to be very accurate. Despite completing the steps, the SuperCharger has failed to record several workout sessions, and because the promised indicator inside the app doesn’t work — it’s supposed to show a dot on the workout mode in the Sequent app when it’s active — it’s very difficult to tell if your inputs have been successful.
The heart rate recording is also haphazard, with some sessions showing heart rate data and others not, and that’s the same with the GPS. It doesn’t have GPS built in, so it relies on your phone’s GPS. Even with the app open on my phone, it failed to pull in location data during a walk. When a workout was tracked, the app showed distance, calorie burn, time, pace, and steps. There is a sleep mode in the app, but it’s listed as being in “beta,” and I find the strap far too uncomfortable to wear overnight anyway.
From a fitness-tracking perspective, there is vastly more ability in the $50 Xiaomi Mi Band 6.
The complication on the watch’s dial shows step count during the day and heart rate data during a workout session. It seems to be mostly consistent with my Apple Watch Series 6 , but it’s quite hard to tell due to the tiny numbers and even more minuscule interim marks. If asked what my heart rate was, I would only really be able to say, “between 110 and 120 beats per minute,” for example.
This vagueness is compounded by the sensor not continuously reading your heart rate. You can set it to read every five minutes, 30 minutes, or two hours for daily use in the app, and it seems to only update every few minutes when working out. The app doesn’t link with Apple Health, Google Fit, Strava, or any other fitness platform. From a fitness-tracking perspective, there is vastly more ability in the $50 Xiaomi Mi Band 6 than in the $482 Sequent SuperCharger.
A fitness-tracking system that’s a pain to activate, limited on features, delivers questionable accuracy, and offers no way to share the data it collects outside of the default app isn’t very inspirational. It’s absolutely not going to satisfy someone seriously into fitness, and its awkward controls will prove annoying to someone who only uses it casually.
Price and availability The Sequent SuperCharger 2.1 Premium HR as seen here costs $482. Alternatively, you can buy the watch without the heart rate sensor for $428, or a version made from aluminum rather than stainless steel without the heart rate sensor for $374. It’s available through Sequent’s own online store.
Our take As a showcase for the kinetic energy system, the Sequent SuperCharger is excellent. The technology is really interesting and has worked well during my time with the watch. Not having to charge a smartwatch, ever , is hugely desirable, freeing, and by far the biggest attraction of the Sequent watch. Unfortunately, the far less successful smart features don’t give me a reason to put the watch on. While not showing notifications is fine, the fitness tracking can’t compete with current smartwatches and fitness bands, isn’t very intuitive, and is not detailed enough for anyone seriously into sports.
It has the right credentials for a good watch — a modern Swiss design, sapphire crystal, and a stainless steel case — plus that everlasting energy, but without compelling smart functionality, the innovative way it’s powered is wasted. For close to $500, a world of excellent and highly desirable watches — smart and otherwise — opens up, and the Sequent watch struggles to compete.
I saw the original version of the SuperCharger at the Baselworld watch show in 2018, and then tried the SuperCharger 2.0 for a very short time in 2019. Now in 2021, despite time having passed and the watch getting a heart rate sensor, the SuperCharger 2.1, unfortunately, feels like it’s still stuck in 2019, and that’s not good enough when the rest of the hybrid market has moved onward and upward.
Is there a better alternative? Yes. If you specifically want a hybrid smartwatch, we suggest looking at Casio’s G-Shock range. The solar powered G-Shock GBD-200 includes fitness tracking and notifications, for example, while the GBD-H1000 adds GPS and a heart rate sensor to the mix. The Withings ScanWatch is even more health-focused, has a minimalist design, and is made from high-quality materials. The Skagen Jorn Hybrid HR has an e-Ink screen to minimize power consumption, a heart rate sensor, and more smart features. All cost less than the Sequent SuperCharger.
If you really want more smart features, then a full touchscreen smartwatch is the only way to go. We recommend the Apple Watch Series 6 or Apple Watch SE for iPhone owners, or the Samsung Galaxy Watch 4 for Android phone owners.
How long will it last? The stainless steel body and scratch-resistant sapphire crystal means the SuperCharger should keep its looks even with some harsh treatment, plus it’s water-resistant to 50 meters and is covered by a generous five-year warranty. The app is available for iOS and Android. Provided the app is kept up to date, the Sequent SuperCharger should last for many years, helped by the lack of a battery requiring continuous daily charges.
Should you buy it? No. Although the kinetic energy system is innovative, the fitness tracking is too basic to be of use, and the high price becomes very difficult to justify.
Editors' Recommendations Your body powers the Sequent SuperCharger 2 smartwatch, no battery needed Wearables Product Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Tesla Wearable Reviews Wearables Mobile Double Tap is one of the coolest features I’ve used on the Apple Watch in a long time. It’s not the most useful, and I don’t find myself using it that often, but when I do have a need to tap my fingers together to activate a function, I’m still at the stage where I think, “Wow, this is a really impressive thing.” Here’s why it’s an example of what Apple does best — and why there’s so much potential for the future in it.
I was worried about Double Tap Apple Watch Series 9 Andy Boxall / Digital Trends Mobile The next evolution of wireless technology, Wi-Fi 7, has been hitting its stride in recent months. Now, MediaTek is giving it a big boost with a duo of new Filogic chips that will power a whole new generation of Wi-Fi 7-capable devices, from enterprise access points and wireless mesh systems to smartphones and set-top boxes.
Unsurprisingly, MediaTek was one of the first chipmakers on board when Wi-Fi 7 made its debut at CES 2022, promising to deliver top speeds more than twice as fast as current Wi-Fi 6 and Wi-Fi 6E technologies. While Wi-Fi 7 is still in its nascent stages — few consumer devices support it, and the spec has yet to receive its final ratification — MediaTek’s second-generation Filogic chips will ensure that smartphones, laptops, and routers are ready to deliver the best of what the new standard has to offer.
Mobile Google's popular line of Pixel devices includes smartphones, tablets, smartwatches, and wireless earbuds -- and they're all available with eye-catching discounts in this year's Black Friday deals. if you've had an eye on any one of them, you should take advantage of the offers that retailers have rolled out for the shopping holiday, and you need to act fast because stocks will run out quickly due to high demand. To help you out, we've rounded up our favorite Google Pixel Black Friday deals below.
Google Pixel Watch Black Friday deals The Google Pixel Watch 2 is already out, which means the Google Pixel Watch is a prime candidate for a discount on Black Friday. It's still a perfectly capable smartwatch though, even with the launch of its successor, as it runs on Google's Wear OS for access to a wide range of apps and health-monitoring features on your wrist. You need to push through with your purchase as soon as possible though, as stocks are already probably running low on most Black Friday smartwatch deals.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
