Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Phones Best Tablets Tesla Phone Download Android 14 Best Android Phones Home Mobile Reviews Amazon Fire HD 8 review (2020): Cheap for a reason By Christian de Looper Close $90.00 Amazon integration Ultra-affordable Good battery life Alexa Software can feel like an advertisement Sluggish performance Under-par display The tablet market is in an odd spot. Apple dominates, and the iPad is our top pick for those who can spend up to around $300. If you can’t spend that much (or don’t want to), however, or you just don’t like Apple’s ecosystem, your options are limited. Amazon is one of the few alternatives, offering ultra-low-cost tablets for years — and it recently unveiled a refreshed version of the Amazon Fire HD 8 tablet.
A basic design with a few quirks Mediocre display Lackluster performance, good battery life Amazon-forward software Price, availability, and warranty information Our take Amazon’s new Fire HD 8 isn’t radically different compared to the previous-generation Fire HD 8 , but it does offer a few upgrades. For example, there’s now a USB-C port on the bottom, along with a new chip that claims 30% better performance.
Amazon’s kid-friendly Fire HD 10 tablets bring AI-powered games Who needs the Pixel Tablet? Amazon’s new Fire Max 11 looks great Samsung Galaxy Tab S8 series’ Amazon listing reveals it all However, the headline feature is still the price. At a super-low $90, the Fire HD 8 may well be the best option under $100 — partially because it’s one of the only options under $100. But what are the sacrifices? A basic design with a few quirks The Fire HD 8 offers an 8-inch display, with half-inch bezels around the display. The tablet comes in a range of colors, which is perhaps the most unique thing about it. Those colors include white, black, twilight blue, and plum. I reviewed the white model, and it looks good enough — though the more colorful models have more flair.
As someone who usually uses the entry-level iPad for any tablet needs, the Fire HD 8 does feel a little thick, coming in at 9.7mm compared to the iPad’s 7.5mm. Considering the overall size, it’s still reasonably lightweight. However, once you add a case, it starts getting even heftier. Due to that bulk, the tablet feels relatively tough. It’s largely made from plastic that won’t scratch or dent easily.
Image used with permission by copyright holder The Fire HD 8’s layout of buttons and ports could use work. The webcam is placed horizontally rather than vertically, and when used in the horizontal layout, you’ll get the volume rocker, power button, USB-C port, and headphone jack on the left side. In the end, I didn’t mind the layout, but it’s a little strange to have the USB-C port at the top, and the power button and volume rocker at the bottom, when you want to use the device in portrait mode. On the right side, there’s a MicroSD card slot to expand on the built-in storage.
This is the first Fire HD tablet to offer a USB-C port, which is nice to see. You won’t really get fast-charging through that port, but it’s handy to be able to charge your modern devices with all the same cables, and inclusion of such a port is a little overdue for Amazon.
On the back of the device, there’s a 2-megapixel camera that snaps mediocre images at best. The selfie camera on the front also sits in a 2 megapixels, and while it will do the job for video chatting, again, a better camera would’ve been appreciated.
Overall, it the Fire HD 8 is built to get the job done. Its low price means you have to sacrifice the more premium feel of even Apple’s entry-level iPad, but that dosen’t make the tablet more difficult to use.
Mediocre display Image used with permission by copyright holder While the design is fine, the display leaves something to be desired. Again, that’s to be expected of a device in this price range, but it’s still important to note.
The 8-inch LCD display has a resolution of 800 x 1,280, which is a little sub-par. Its maximum brightness is low as well, and as a result you may struggle to see what you’re doing in direct sunlight. Colors are also a little muted, making videos less immersive and exciting.
Digital Trends noticed the display was a little lackluster when we reviewed the 2018 model of the Fire HD 8 , so it’s disappointing that Amazon hasn’t upgraded it. While the display manages to do the job in most situations, you’re going to have trouble using it outdoors, and the movies won’t look as sharp as on more expensive tablets.
Lackluster performance, good battery life Things aren’t much better under the hood.
Android devices often perform well when you get them, then over the next few years they start to run slower and slower. That’s not the case here, unfortunately. The Amazon Fire 8 HD runs slow out of the box.
This tablet is powered by a MediaTek MT8168 processor, coupled with 2GB of RAM and either 32GB or 64GB of storage. If you want to expand on that storage, there’s a MicroSD card slot built in to the device.
The specs are undeniably modest, and while the tablet performed fine during day-to-day use, if you’re into mobile gaming, you’ll need something with a little more oomph, unless you’re mostly interested in basic games. This tablet isn’t built for gaming — though for things like streaming video, browsing social media, and so on, it should be fine.
While the performance is a little disappointing, the battery life is solid. Amazon rates the battery life at up to 12 hours, and I found it easily endured two days of moderate use. Unless you regularly forget to charge your devices, you’ll find that the battery life is more than long enough for most.
Amazon-forward software Apart from price, the main reason someone might want to buy a Fire HD tablet is its integration with the rest of Amazon’s ecosystem. For those who use more stripped-back versions of Android on their phone, like that on Google’s Pixel phones or OxygenOS from OnePlus, the heavily tweaked Fire OS on the Fire HD 8 feels a little chaotic — and at times a little dated, too.
The deep integration with Amazon services can be very helpful for Prime subscribers who already make heavy use of Amazon’s apps and services. You’ll get quick and immediate access to services like Audible , Prime Video, Kindle, and so on, thanks to the apps that come installed out of the box.
Many of those services are built right into the home screen too — swipe right, and you’ll get access to your books. Swipe right again, and you’ll see videos. Once more, there are games and apps. It’s an intuitive way to scroll through Amazon’s services, but if you don’t use every single Amazon service out there, these sections of the home screen only serve as advertisements — and full-screen ones at that. On the Video tab, for example, you’ll only be able to see Prime Video content. Even if you download the Netflix app, don’t expect Amazon to recommend content from it in that tab.
Fire OS does not take advantage of Google Play Services, so you won’t have access to Google services like Google Drive, YouTube, and so on unless you download them. Even then, you won’t have access to the Google Play Store without making a major effort to get it.
Also, the Amazon Appstore is limited. You’ll find most streaming services , social media apps, and some of the more popular games, there’s plenty of gaps. You can’t, for example, download an official YouTube app, nor will the fitness junkies out there be able to download services like MyFitnessPal.
Then you have the ads. If you take full advantage of Amazon services, you may not care about them that much — but if you generally pick and choose, like most people probably do, the ads get to be a little much. Every time you see the lock screen, you’ll see a different set of books or shows Amazon thinks you’ll want to read or watch, and Amazon will regularly fill your notification shade with other advertisements.
Alexa is a part of the Fire tablet experience, and it works well. You’ll have all the Alexa smarts that you would on the Echo, plus the ability to control certain aspects of the tablet’s software — like opening specific apps, playing videos on Prime Video, and so on.
Ultimately, if you’re anything like me, you’ll end up having a bit of a love-hate relationship with Fire OS. It works great in many situations, but only if you’re seriously plugged into the Amazon ecosystem — and if you’re not, much of the operating system only serves as bloatware.
Price, availability, and warranty information The slow performance, bloated software, and limited app selection would be unforgivable if it wasn’t for the price. However, at $90, there’s almost no competition to the Fire HD 8. You might be able to find a discounted Samsung or Lenovo tablet that matches the price, but you’d otherwise have to shop for no-name tablets that won’t offer any advantage over the Fire HD 8.
Of course, this tablet is available directly from Amazon.
 You’ll only get a 90-day limited warranty here, which only covers manufacturer defects.
Our take The Amazon Fire HD 8 is a solid budget option for those that want an entertainment machine, or who are plugged into Amazon’s ecosystem and want a device that takes advantage of that. But, the device is far from perfect. It has relatively sluggish performance, the software can feel like one big advertisement, and the display isn’t great.
Is there a better alternative? In this price range, there aren’t any solid alternatives, as the options that are out there are from no-name brands or are seriously underpowered. It may be worth looking into a refurbished iPad, or saving up your cash for something better, like a cheap option from Lenovo or the entry-level iPad — though the entry-level iPad still costs $250 when it’s on sale.
How long will it last? You should get a year or two of normal use out of the Amazon Fire HD 8. Its slow performance will get worse over time, which is something to keep in mind since it’s not great to begin with, but if all you really use it for is watching videos and browsing social media, it should do just fine. Physically, the tablet is strong enough to withstand most day-to-day use, but you won’t want to drop it or get it wet.
Should you buy it? No. Though it has little competition, the Amazon Fire HD 8 is too affordable for its own good.
Editors' Recommendations Best tablet deals: Save on iPad, Galaxy Tab, Fire tablet, and more Best Amazon Fire tablet deals: Fire HD 10 is $60 off Amazon’s new Fire HD 8 tablets run faster, last longer, and start at $100 Amazon Fire HD 10 vs. HD 10 Plus: Which budget slate blazes brightest? The most common Amazon Fire problems, and how to fix them Android Amazon Product Reviews Tablet Reviews Mobile If you go to Amazon looking for a new charger or a pair of headphones today, your options will be limited. People have started noticing that chargers, cables, webcams, keyboards, mice, speakers, and headphones -- likely among other categories -- from popular companies are either unavailable for shipping or gone from the platform entirely. Aukey and Mpow, extremely well-known companies with popular products, have all but disappeared from Amazon.
And we have a good idea of the reason: Fake reviews.
Mobile Amazon's Fire line of tablets aren't necessarily known for their processing power -- they're generally low in price and offer a solid option for those who simply want a device for browsing the web and watching videos. But now, the company has unveiled its most powerful tablets yet: The Amazon Fire HD 10, Fire HD 10 Plus, and Fire HD 10 Kids.
The new Fire HD 10 features an octa-core processor with 3GB of RAM and either 32GB or 64GB of storage. On the front, you'll get a 1,080p, 10.1-inch display, which Amazon says is 10% brighter than the previous-generation Fire HD 10. The Fire HD 10 Plus upgrades the device to 4GB of RAM, has wireless charging, and offers a more premium soft-touch finish on the back. Other specs include a 2-megapixel front-facing camera and a MicroSD card slot for expanded storage.
Mobile There are a thousand reasons you might want to take a screenshot on your Kindle Fire tablet. For instance, you might want to help a friend troubleshoot a technical problem on their device or prove to a landlord that you did, in fact, agree on a lower rate for your rent by showing them a conversation you two previously had. Whatever the reason, where there’s a will, there’s a way. Below, we’ve outlined two methods to take a screenshot on your Kindle Fire, including a short method for newer models and a long method for older versions.
3rd Gen and newer (2013 to present) You won’t experience any difficulty taking a screenshot when using the newest modeled devices. Follow these three steps: Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
