Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Phones Best Tablets Tesla Phone Download Android 14 Best Android Phones Home Mobile Reviews Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Amazon Fire HD 8 Plus (2022) review: too much Amazon, not enough tablet By Andy Zahn Close $120.00 Low price Good build quality Great battery life Functional for basic tasks Ad-supported model isn’t worth the savings Absolutely terrible camera Frustrating limitations of Fire OS An expensive tablet is something of a questionable purchase these days, particularly if you’re living on a tight budget, or already own a large smartphone. That’s why a super-affordable tablet like the Amazon Fire HD 8 Plus (2022) is so appealing. On paper, you get practically everything you expect from an iPad or other premium tablet for not much more than the cost of an ad-supported Netflix subscription.
 That comparison is rather apt, as ads are how Amazon has achieved such an absurdly cheap price point for the HD 8 Plus. But is the low cost of this budget tablet worth the tradeoffs, or has Amazon cut too many corners? Amazon Fire HD 8 Plus (2022) design Amazon Fire HD 8 Plus (2022) display and performance Amazon Fire HD 8 Plus (2022) camera Amazon Fire HD 8 Plus (2022) software Amazon Fire HD 8 Plus (2022) battery and charging Amazon Fire HD 8 Plus (2022) price and availability A tablet for Amazon superfans only Amazon Fire HD 8 Plus (2022) design Andy Zahn / Digital Trends Surprisingly, the Amazon Fire HD 8 Plus is very well made in a functional sort of way. It’s not fancy or premium, but the textured plastic back is actually really nice. Compared to glass or aluminum, it is easier to grip and won’t show wear and tear as easily. I very much appreciate the presence of a 3.5mm headphone jack, which is a feature I’ve missed in high-end modern phones and tablets. The Fire HD 8 Plus also has a USB-C port, which is great to see, and includes a charging brick, something that is not so often included with devices these days.
The best Android tablets in 2023: the 10 best ones you can buy Best Amazon Fire tablet deals: Fire HD 10 is $60 off Best Prime Day Tablet Deals for October 2022 On the other hand, the bezels around the screen are quite obtrusive, and definitely expand the footprint of the device, making it less portable than a tablet with smaller bezels. This is a compromise I’d expect to find in a budget tablet.
Andy Zahn / Digital Trends Amazon claims that the Fire HD 8 Plus has a reduced carbon footprint due to its packaging. The packaging is fully recyclable, which is great, though the benefits of that packaging are somewhat vague. The packaging is made from wood fiber-based materials from responsibly managed forests or recycled sources, but such claims of responsible forestry are often of questionable merit, and I’d be much more impressed if the packaging was made fully from recycled materials.
I tested the Fire HD 8 Plus with the optional case, which makes the tablet feel and look significantly more premium. A good case is almost essential for a tablet, given how many I’ve seen friends and family break over the years.
Amazon Fire HD 8 Plus (2022) display and performance Andy Zahn / Digital Trends The HD 8 Plus display is merely OK; it offers decent color, contrast, and sharpness, though I did find it to be a little bit dim. At max brightness, it was very difficult to use outdoors, and at 1280 x 800 resolution, it’s not impressive — but it gets the job done. The speakers on the Amazon Fire HD 8 Plus are perfectly acceptable, if not particularly fantastic.
In general, the performance of the HD 8 Plus is fine. When browsing the home screen, using a web browser, or streaming media, it’s snappy and responsive. The new, faster processor enables an advertised 30% boost in processing speed over its predecessor, enabling picture-in-picture video and split-screen capability. Gaming is possible on the HD 8 Plus, and I was able to enjoy My Friend Pedro: Ripe for Revenge.
 However, I did run into frame rate drops despite it not being graphically demanding.
Amazon Fire HD 8 Plus (2022) camera Andy Zahn / Digital Trends The camera on the HD 8 Plus is the worst I’ve used in years. Image quality is bad even in broad daylight, and in even mildly dim interior conditions, photos turn out muddy and indistinct. The selfie camera delivers 2MP still images and 720p video capture, while the rear-facing camera shoots 5MP stills and 1080p video.
The first digital camera I ever used nearly two decades ago delivered higher resolution and better quality images than this. The camera interface is also as basic and difficult to operate as possible. These cameras are so bad it’s questionable whether they should have been included in the first place.
Amazon Fire HD 8 Plus (2022) software Andy Zahn / Digital Trends The HD 8 Plus runs a heavily modified version of Android called Fire OS. It’s been a while since I used a Fire OS device, but the experience hasn’t improved since I last picked up an Amazon device. It’s ugly and locks you into Amazon’s ecosystem, as it doesn’t offer access to the Google Play Store.
 This means that you’re restricted to apps acquired through Amazon’s own app store, and a lot of popular apps are missing or put behind a confusing paywall.
For example, I wanted to install Ultimate Guitar, but it costs $3 on the Amazon App Store despite being free in the Google Play Store. I already pay an annual subscription for Ultimate Guitar, and I’m not about to spend an extra $3 for the privilege of using it on the Fire HD 8 Plus. Furthermore, some apps (such as YouTube) installed just fine, but then failed to launch correctly.
If you look at the Fire HD 8 Plus as a portal into Amazon’s ecosystem, it makes a lot more sense than as a traditional tablet.
Basically, once you venture outside of Amazon’s own apps and a handful of aggressively monetized mobile games, it’s a pretty miserable experience. The first-party Amazon apps are great, and you can use the device purely with voice commands via Alexa like a smart speaker.
 If you look at the Fire HD 8 Plus as a portal into Amazon’s ecosystem, it makes a lot more sense than as a traditional tablet.
Amazon Fire HD 8 Plus (2022) battery and charging An advantage of the Fire HD 8 Plus is that it delivers rather impressive battery life. With mixed use between browsing, streaming, and gaming, I found that it really does clock in around the 13 hours of battery life estimated by Amazon. Unfortunately, it’s mildly slow to charge, taking around three hours to go from empty to full.
Amazon Fire HD 8 Plus (2022) price and availability Andy Zahn / Digital Trends The potentially redeeming factor of the Amazon Fire HD 8 Plus is the incredibly low price point of just $120. That’s just a fifth of what an iPad Mini will cost you, but as someone who owns last year’s iPad Mini, I believe the iPad Mini is five times the tablet that Fire the HD 8 Plus is. Beyond all the problems already mentioned, the HD 8 Plus is an ad-supported tablet, meaning that your lock screen is an advertisement, and there are ads on the home screen.
At first, this didn’t bother me too much, but over time I really grew to loathe the constant ad bombardment. People I’ve known who’ve used these devices have given them up because they couldn’t put up with ads anymore. However, you can buy the Fire HD 8 Plus without lock screen ads for an extra $15, which I would highly recommend if you’re planning to buy this device.
However, the bargain price of the Amazon Fire HD 8 Plus isn’t even really that good when you look. For $10 less at the time of publication, you can pick up a Samsung Galaxy Tab A7 Lite that has similar specs to the HD 8 Plus, and it isn’t infected with baked-in advertisements or hobbled by Fire OS and the absence of the Google Play Store.
Also, that $120 is just for the base version with 32GB of storage. If you want 64GB of storage like the model I tested, it’ll set you back $150. And if you want the case bundled in, it’s $195. The Amazon Fire 7 is much more attractive as an ultra-budget Amazon tablet, given that it starts at just $60.
A tablet for Amazon superfans only Andy Zahn / Digital Trends The Amazon Fire HD 8 Plus (2022) is an improvement over its previous iterations, and that’s really the best thing I can say about it. The Fire HD 8 Plus is fundamentally a portal through which Amazon’s services can be accessed, and the only people I’d recommend it to are those who just want a tablet to watch Amazon Prime streaming, listen to Amazon Music, and interact with Alexa-enabled smart home devices. Everyone else is better off with any other tablet.
Editors' Recommendations Best tablet deals: Save on iPad, Galaxy Tab, Fire tablet, and more Amazon’s kid-friendly Fire HD 10 tablets bring AI-powered games Who needs the Pixel Tablet? Amazon’s new Fire Max 11 looks great Amazon’s new Fire HD 8 tablets run faster, last longer, and start at $100 The best Samsung Galaxy Tab S8 Plus keyboard cases Amazon Product Reviews Tablet Reviews Mobile With the launch of Samsung's Galaxy Tab S8 series, you might be wondering whether to splash out on the Samsung Galaxy Tab S8 Plus or go for Apple's iPad Air 4 instead. Although the decision might ultimately come down to whether you prefer Android or iOS, there are plenty of other factors to consider, too. We've done the hard work for you and compared the Samsung Galaxy Tab S8 Plus against the Apple iPad Air 4 across six core categories -- from design and display to battery life and special features -- and crowned an overall winner. Which tablet is the one for you? Keep reading to find out.
Specs Samsung Galaxy Tab S8 Plus iPad Air 4 Mobile In 2021, Amazon released an important update to its 10-inch Fire tablet and an upgraded Fire HD 10 Plus model for those who want extra features -- at a higher price, of course. Interested buyers seeking a new tablet should know exactly how the two models compare and what the key differences are. We've taken a close look, and our guide is ready with everything you need. Here's how the Fire tablets stack up and which we recommend getting. Make sure to check out the latest Cyber Monday Tablet deals before making a decision.
Specs Amazon Fire HD 10 (2021) Amazon Fire HD 10 Plus (2021) Mobile The Amazon Fire, previously known as the Kindle Fire, is Amazon's flagship tablet product combining the best of their famous e-book reader with the standard tablet offerings we've become accustomed to in recent years. First released in 2011, these tablets have served in a niche space for voracious readers looking for more smart device features for their home or office. For those of you in that crowd, we're taking a look at the most common problems with the modern range of Amazon Fire tablets. We also keep tabs on common issues for the older Kindle Fire tablets since there are plenty still out there on living room coffee tables.
See more Amazon Fire HD 10 review Amazon Fire tablet tips and tricks Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
