Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Phones Best Tablets Tesla Phone Download Android 14 Best Android Phones Home Mobile Guides How we test tablets By Joe Maring Close Nadeem Sarwar / DigitalTrends Finding the best tablet is no easy task. With so many different models to choose from, various specs to consider, and seemingly endless options available for any budget, there’s a lot to consider before buying your next tablet.
How we test tablet design How we test tablet screens How we test tablet performance How we test tablet battery life How we test tablet cameras How we test tablet software How we get the tablets we review We get that, and that’s why we review the biggest and best tablets at Digital Trends (and some you may not have heard of before) so you know exactly what’s worth spending your money on … and what’s worth ignoring. But how do we review tablets? What exactly goes into our review process when a new tablet needs to be tested? Here’s a glimpse behind the curtains of how it all works.
How we test tablet design Tushar Mehta / Digital Trends Tablets are your handheld slates into the world of mobile gaming, binge-watching your favorite shows, and endlessly scrolling through social media. As such, it’s important that they feel good to hold! This is one of the first things we look at when judging a tablet’s design. Is a tablet comfortable to hold? Are there any sharp corners that dig into your palms? Is it too heavy for prolonged use? These may seem like small things to consider, but they all play a big role in a tablet’s overall design.
We analyze the materials a tablet is made out of. A tablet with a plastic design may not feel as premium as one with an aluminum or glass back, but it should hold up better in the hands of younger kids. And there are a bunch of smaller details we look for, too — including a tablet’s aesthetics, whether or not the buttons are easy to press, and if it has features like a headphone jack or expandable storage.
How we test tablet screens Andrew Martonik/Digital Trends Just as important to a tablet — if not more so — is its screen. Quality displays are important to have on any device, but this is especially true when dealing with tablets. LCD panels are more affordable and can look very good, but you’ll get brighter colors and deeper blacks with an OLED or AMOLED one. Refresh rates are critical, too. 60Hz is the bare minimum, though many tablets today offer 90Hz or 120Hz options. And, of course, a higher pixel density will give you an overall sharper image.
We account for all of these factors when judging tablet displays. Not only do we evaluate the on-paper specs, but we also actually use and look at tablet screens to judge them for ourselves — and we do so in a variety of conditions, including outdoors in direct sunlight, in our homes, etc.
Lastly, we take a lot of consideration for a tablet’s screen size. Tablets come in all sorts of shapes and sizes — including compact ones with 7-inch displays, larger options with 10 or 11-inch screens, and even some models that go all the way up to 14 inches or more. Different display sizes have their own pros/cons, and we make sure to explain these things in all of our tablet reviews.
How we test tablet performance Nadeem Sarwar / DigitalTrends A good-looking screen is great to have on a tablet, but that doesn’t matter if it’s not powerful enough to run the apps and games you want it to. That’s why we put a lot of thought and effort into how we test a tablet’s performance.
In our tablet reviews, we’ll always tell you what kind of processor a tablet has, how much RAM is available, and how that compares to the competition. But more importantly, we use these tablets in a variety of ways to see how they perform in the real world. We do this by using a variety of applications, playing games of varying intensity, multitasking, and more. If you want to use a tablet for social media, web browsing, gaming, or anything else, chances are we’ve used it for all of those things and know exactly how well it can (or can’t) keep up.
How we test tablet battery life Christine Romero-Chan / Digital Trends All of this performance testing also feeds directly into how we test a tablet’s battery life. Running countless apps and playing multiple games naturally impacts how long a tablet lasts before it needs to be charged — but how long that takes can vary wildly from tablet to tablet.
Similar to our performance testing, we’re always upfront in our tablet reviews about the size of the battery inside a tablet and whether or not it’s competitive with other alternatives. The same goes for a tablet’s available charging options — including how fast it charges and whether or not you get charging accessories included in the box.
Beyond the technical specs, we keep a close eye on a tablet’s battery endurance throughout our review period. We keep detailed notes of when we start using a tablet, what kind of things we use it for, and how much the battery drained during that time — all to give you a crystal clear idea of exactly how long a tablet can last. Similarly, we closely monitor a tablet’s charging speeds so you know exactly how long you’ll be waiting for a full recharge.
How we test tablet cameras Joe Maring/Digital Trends Although cameras often aren’t the main focus for tablets, we don’t let them go unnoticed in our reviews. If a tablet comes with cameras, you can be sure we’ll thoroughly test them so you know how good (or bad) they really are.
Take a lot of video calls on Google Meet, Microsoft Teams , or Zoom? We’ll let you know exactly what kind of video quality you can expect from a tablet’s front-facing camera. And for those times when you need to scan a document or take a quick photo, we’ll let you know if you can rely on a tablet’s rear camera(s), too.
How we test tablet software Joe Maring/Digital Trends No tablet review on Digital Trends is complete until we’ve thoroughly vetted its software. There are obvious differences between iPadOS and Android tablets, but we go far beyond that. Whether we’re reviewing an iPad or a tablet running Android, we evaluate the entire software experience — from the hallmark features to the smaller details that may go unnoticed.
Does a tablet’s software do a good job of handling/running multiple apps at once? Are there added features to take advantage of the big display? How many updates can you expect? Are the apps you need available on a tablet? And if so, what is the quality of those apps like? We try to answer all of those big questions in every tablet review.
Furthermore, we’ll let you know how a tablet’s software fits into our lives. If there’s a standout feature we can’t live without or something it does that drives us crazy, we’ll always tell you in our reviews.
How we get the tablets we review Joe Maring / Digital Trends We get the tablets we review as review samples sent by the manufacturer, or in some cases, we’ll purchase a tablet ourselves. Either way, how we get a tablet has zero impact on our review.
Even if we are given a free review sample by a company, that doesn’t change our review score, the content of a review, or any Recommended Product or Editor’s Choice award we may give it. When you read a tablet review on Digital Trends, you can rest assured you’re reading our true, honest thoughts and nothing more.
Editors' Recommendations It’s finally happening — your iPhone is getting RCS in 2024 Will my phone change for daylight saving time automatically? The best tablets in 2023: top 11 tablets you can buy now The best Android tablets in 2023: the 10 best ones you can buy The best iPads in 2023: the 5 best ones you should buy Android Apple Apple iPad Google Product Reviews Tablet Reviews Mobile Thanks to new features in iOS 17, your FaceTime calls and other online video meetings are about to get much more fun. The powerful new silicon in Apple’s recent iPhone models has made it possible for Apple to create a new feature that not only lets you send cool 3D animations like balloons, confetti, and fireworks to your friends — but it even lets you trigger them with natural physical gestures.
While the new FaceTime gestures, which Apple officially calls “reactions,” are pretty easy to use once you get the hang of it, not all the gestures that trigger these reactions are immediately obvious. Plus, you’ll need to make sure a few other things are ready to go beyond simply updating to iOS 17. Let’s dive in and take a look at how this cool new feature works.
How to make a FaceTime gesture in iOS 17 Mobile Earlier this week, we reported how popular tech YouTuber Zack Nelson busted the back of an iPhone 15 Pro Max when he subjected it to his bend test.
The back glass shattered with relatively little effort, which came as a great surprise not only to Nelson but to everyone watching, too.
Mobile At the Worldwide Developers Conference (WWDC 2023), Apple unveiled the latest version of iPadOS — iPadOS 17, equipped with new features and improvements. The update brings new ways of customizing the lock screen, interacting with widgets, and working on PDFs in the Notes app. Additionally, the Health app is now available on iPads for the first time.
The iPadOS 17 update, while perhaps featuring fewer new or updated features than previous versions, still brings several noteworthy changes and improvements. For instance, the Messages app has received some updates, as has FaceTime. Additionally, Safari and Password have seen some tweaks and improvements. In addition to these changes, the update includes new sticker packs, which can add fun and creativity to your conversations. While it may not be the most extensive update, iPadOS 17 still brings valuable and enjoyable improvements.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
