Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Phones Best Tablets Tesla Phone Download Android 14 Best Android Phones Home Mobile Reviews Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Lenovo Tab P11 Pro Gen 2 review: good hardware, lacking software By Christine Romero-Chan Close $400.00 Slim and lightweight aluminum Sleek dual-tone design Beautiful 11.2-inch 2.5K OLED display Quad speaker system with support for Dolby Atmos Great battery life Front camera is terrible Uses Android 12, Android 12L coming later Only up to 6GB of RAM Lenovo is a brand that is best known for powerful desktop and laptop computers , but it also makes some nice tablets for on-the-go productivity and entertainment. Though it seems that the tablet market is largely dominated by Apple’s iPad , the Lenovo Tab P11 Pro Gen 2 is a strong contender.
Lenovo Tab P11 Pro Gen 2 design Lenovo Tab P11 Pro Gen 2 screen and performance Lenovo Tab P11 Pro Gen 2 software Lenovo Tab P11 Pro Gen 2 cameras Lenovo Tab P11 Pro Gen 2 battery life Lenovo Tab P11 Pro Gen 2 price and availability A good Android tablet, but not a great one The problem is not necessarily that Android tablets have bad hardware — it’s more about the software as Android is still better optimized for smaller devices like phones , rather than tablets. That holds true with the Tab P11 Pro Gen 2. However, Lenovo does well even within the limitations of Android 12. As someone who has primarily used iOS and iPadOS for more than a decade, the Lenovo Tab P11 Pro Gen 2 is a breath of fresh air.
Realme GT 2 Pro set for December 20 launch with the new Snapdragon 8 Gen 1 chip Lenovo’s new Tab P12 Pro, Tab P11 5G offer power and portability Lenovo’s $230 Tab P11 takes care of your stay-at-home tablet needs Lenovo Tab P11 Pro Gen 2 design Christine Romero-Chan / Digital Trends The design of the Lenovo Tab P11 Pro Gen 2 is very similar to the first generation, though I admit I have no experience with that tablet. However, the Lenovo Tab P11 Pro Gen 2 reminds me of an iPad Pro in terms of design. The slim aluminum chassis has flat edges like the iPad Pro (as well as most of the iPad lineup these days), with the power and volume buttons on the edges, as well as the speaker grills, a microSD card slot, and a USB-C charging port. The display is 11.2 inches, and the device is incredibly lightweight, clocking in at about 1 pound.
The back of the tablet has a unique, dual-tone metallic finish, along with a single 13MP camera with LED flash in the corner. Though the dual-tone metallic finish looks beautiful in person, it is very prone to fingerprints, so I’d recommend a case. There’s a small pill-shaped outline on the back, which actually houses a magnet. This magnet stripe is designed to hold and charge the optional Lenovo Precision Pen 3, which is sold separately.
Christine Romero-Chan / Digital Trends What’s interesting, at least for me, is the location of the front-facing camera. Like its predecessor, the Lenovo Tab P11 Pro Gen 2 is landscape-oriented, so the front-facing camera is actually on the longer, horizontal side. This is like the new 10th-generation iPad , which moved the front camera to landscape orientation instead of at the top in portrait orientation. Considering that people will mostly use a tablet in landscape mode for video calls, this only makes sense.
But if you’re like me and haven’t used a tablet with a horizontal camera before, it might take a bit of getting used to, especially with things like Face Unlock. Still, I think this is the right way to go with a front-facing camera on a tablet, and want to see it on more devices — especially Apple’s iPad lineup.
Lenovo Tab P11 Pro Gen 2 screen and performance Christine Romero-Chan / Digital Trends The Lenovo Tab P11 Pro Gen 2 comes with an 11.2-inch 2.5K OLED display with 2560 x 1536 resolution. It also has a 120Hz refresh rate. During my testing, scrolling through my social networks, email, messages, and calendars was smooth and responsive. The crisp resolution also means things look great, making this an excellent tablet to consider for your media consumption and gaming.
Android 12 on the Lenovo Tab P11 Pro Gen 2 also has eye protection mode, which reduces the amount of blue light that you see during use. I don’t like using this on most devices, as it can mess with the colors too much for my liking, but it’s helpful if your eyes are feeling strained.
The display is also glossy and resistant to fingerprints. Of course, this doesn’t mean that it won’t ever have fingerprints, but it shouldn’t be too bad. I did notice quite a bit on my unit’s screen, though, so I would still recommend a screen protector.
Christine Romero-Chan / Digital Trends During my time with the Lenovo Tab P11 Pro Gen 2, I’ve mostly used it for consuming media, as I did not receive the optional keyboard case with my unit. Reading is fantastic on the high-resolution screen, and movies and shows were sharp and full of smaller details thanks to Dolby Vision and HDR10+ support.
And since the Lenovo Tab P11 Pro Gen 2 has Dolby Atmos spatial audio with the quad JBL speakers, it’s perfect for an immersive media experience. I could have the volume low and still hear everything well, and even at max volume, there is no distortion.
Christine Romero-Chan / Digital Trends I was sent the Lenovo Precision Pen 3 with my Tab P11 Pro unit, which I tested out. The design of the stylus is similar to that of the Apple Pencil 2 and the pen included with the Amazon Kindle Scribe , with one flat side that magnetically attaches to the back of the tablet. There’s a single button toward the bottom of the pen that can be clicked to bring up the Quick Memo notepad, and while in that app, you can double-click the button to quickly switch between the pen and eraser tools. The Precision Pen 3 is also pressure sensitive, so you can get a lighter or bolder stroke, depending on how much pressure is applied.
Lenovo made the Precision Pen 3 feel like an Apple Pencil, so I have that sense of familiarity with it. I’m not a digital artist, so I’ve used it for quick, handwritten notes. In my testing, the pen feels accurate on the screen, and the pressure sensitivity works well, allowing me to differentiate my strokes on the canvas. I also noticed that the Precision Pen 3 displays a cursor on the screen when it’s hovering above the display, similar to the new Hover Mode found with the iPad Pro with M2 and Apple Pencil 2.
Again though, I mainly just use the stylus to navigate and do quick little scribbles — nothing too serious or intense. However, the Precision Pen 3 has some other functionality, including screenshots, a laser pointer, magnifying glass, and a camera scanner. Enabling these functions can be quickly done by pressing the button on the pen in select apps.
Christine Romero-Chan / Digital Trends My Lenovo Tab P11 Pro Gen 2 unit comes with 6GB LPDDR4X RAM, which is tolerable. I did notice that switching between apps or just navigating around would sometimes have some stutter in the animations, and I’d imagine that it may be more frustrating if you are doing work on the tablet with the keyboard case and have a lot more multitasking involved. Unfortunately, I wasn’t able to really use the tablet for work since I am lacking the keyboard case accessory, but I would not recommend using this as your only work machine if at all possible. If you insist, there is a productivity mode that turns the software into something that is more reminiscent of Windows with a bottom taskbar and floating windows.
For the price point, 6GB of RAM is not too bad. This model also has 128GB of storage, and you can expand the storage capacity with a microSD card.
 But again, if you’re looking for a solid tablet to use full-time for work, I think an iPad Pro would be a better overall choice, though I would personally ditch a tablet and stick with a laptop myself.
Lenovo Tab P11 Pro Gen 2 software Christine Romero-Chan / Digital Trends The Lenovo Tab P11 Pro Gen 2 comes with Android 12 out of the box. According to Lenovo’s website, the Tab P11 Pro Gen 2 should get the next two versions of Android, which should end at Android 14. It will also come with three years of security updates.
There is a version of Android 12 that is optimized for larger devices, Android 12L.
 Lenovo has said that the Tab P11 Pro will be its first tablet to get the Android 12L update, but it won’t be until next year. So right now, the Tab P11 Pro Gen 2 is still using standard Android 12.
Christine Romero-Chan / Digital Trends Simply put, Android 12 is just not super-optimized for larger screens. There are some apps that will feature multiple sections and make use of the larger screen space, but there are still a lot of apps on the Google Play Store that are still just blown-up phone versions that just don’t look nice or make use of the bigger display.
The Lenovo Tab P11 Pro Gen 2 also has Face Unlock, which I enabled because I’m so used to Face ID on my iPhone and iPad Pro. However, I noticed that with this turned on, the tablet is searching for a face as soon as the display comes out of sleep mode.
Christine Romero-Chan / Digital Trends When I was out shooting photos for this review, the screen kept waking up and looking for a face, even though I was photographing the back of the tablet. Or when I just pick up the tablet to move it, it instantly looks for a face.
When no face is detected, it will provide haptic feedback to let you know. This applies to both direct unlock and slide-to-unlock settings. The feedback when no face is detected right away is more annoying than anything. I wish it operated like iOS, where you can “wake” the screen, but not unlock it right away. Maybe it’s just an Android 12 thing, but it just feels overly sensitive for Face Unlock.
Lenovo Tab P11 Pro Gen 2 cameras Christine Romero-Chan / Digital Trends The cameras on the Lenovo Tab P11 Pro Gen 2 are nothing to write home about. On the rear, you’ll find a 13MP camera with autofocus, and on the front is an 8MP selfie camera. I’ve never been a fan of using a tablet for photos, but the 13MP camera is fine when you need to scan a document or take a quick photo to share with someone.
However, the 8MP front camera is pretty bad, especially when you compare it to other modern tablets like the iPad. It’s low resolution, for one, and it is fixed focus, so you won’t be able to adjust it if it looks terrible (and it does). I also noticed that it washed my skin tone out quite a bit and made my bottom lip appear bright orange-pink, which is hilariously off from real life.
If you absolutely must use the Lenovo Tab P11 Pro Gen 2 for things like video calls or snapping a quick photo, it will technically work — just don’t expect it to look great.
Lenovo Tab P11 Pro Gen 2 battery life Christine Romero-Chan / Digital Trends Lenovo packed an 8,000mAh battery into the Tab P11 Pro Gen 2 and claims that the tablet can last around 14 hours on a single charge. Since I was unable to use it as a work machine, I’ve been testing it primarily as an entertainment device.
With light use, the Lenovo Tab P11 Pro Gen 2 can last for a few days before needing a recharge. If I go heavy on the streaming and gaming, it will still make it through the day, but it would be best to charge it up overnight.
Lenovo’s tablet can show the battery remaining in the status bar, but it also tells you how much longer you can use it with the current charge. However, this can be inaccurate depending on what you’re using the tablet for, so don’t rely heavily on it.
Lenovo Tab P11 Pro Gen 2 price and availability Christine Romero-Chan / Digital Trends You can find the Lenovo Tab P11 Pro Gen 2 on Lenovo’s website starting at $400 for the base model with 4GB RAM and 128GB storage. The model I received for review, which has 6GB of RAM, is slightly more at $430. However, you can easily find it on sale for less cash.
The Lenovo Precision Pen 3, which is the optional stylus that works with the Tab P11 Pro, costs $70 separately. The Lenovo Keyboard Pack, which adds a protective back cover with a kickstand and keyboard for the tablet, costs $100. Both of these accessories can also be found on Lenovo’s site.
Honestly, it’s hard to find a good Android tablet in a market that is largely dominated by Apple’s iPad. If you are looking for an Android tablet that is mostly going to be used for multimedia and maybe a smart home hub, then you should consider Lenovo’s older Yoga Smart Tab instead. Performance is pretty good with the Snapdragon 439 processor, and you have dual JBL Hi-Fi speakers with Dolby Atmos support. The Yoga Smart Tab also has a built-in kickstand, so you don’t need extra accessories if you just want to prop it up and watch a movie — you can even hang it! It’s also slightly less costly, coming in at under $300 regularly.
John Velasco/Digital Trends Samsung also has some affordable tablets, like the Galaxy Tab A8.
 The 10.5-inch size is portable, and you get decent midrange performance with the Unisoc Tiger T618. It’s lightweight, slim, and has good battery life too. But if you want the best overall Android tablet, then take a look at the slightly more expensive Samsung Galaxy Tab S8 Plus.
 It’s a little larger at 12.4 inches, but it has a 120Hz AMOLED display, fingerprint sensor, 12MP front-facing camera, and more. It’s more expensive at $700, but it’s a far better overall tablet.
Nadeem Sarwar / Digital Trends Of course, I think for the price, an iPad is a better overall buy. The iPad Air tops our best tablets list, but you can also consider the newest base model iPad as well, which is similar to the Lenovo Tab P11 Pro Gen 2 in some features and price.
If you really want a landscape front-facing camera, the iPad is better in terms of quality, and Center Stage is a neat feature that always keeps you in the center of the frame.
A good Android tablet, but not a great one Christine Romero-Chan / Digital Trends The Lenovo Tab P11 Pro Gen 2 is not a bad tablet by any means. In fact, it’s pretty decent for the midrange price point. It’s just a bit limited due to the current inclusion of Android 12 — Android 12L optimization will not arrive until sometime in 2023. My usage was also slightly hindered since I did not have the accompanying keyboard case, so I could not try doing a full day of work on it, which is what I would normally use a tablet for.
It is quite good for a media consumption device thanks to the sharp 11.2-inch 2.5K OLED display with Dolby Vision and HDR10+. And with a quad-speaker system with Dolby Atmos spatial audio, you can get immersed in whatever it is you’re watching. Even at max volume, there’s no distortion, which is nice for a tablet in this space.
For the price, the Lenovo Tab P11 Pro Gen 2 is a good travel companion or entertainment consumption device. The extra accessories will complete the experience, but they are sold separately and will add to the overall cost. The hardware is nice and feels mostly premium (sans the front camera), and it’s just the software that is holding the tablet back from being great.
In the end, though, I think there are some better options out there, especially when you look at the Apple iPad lineup. That’s been the case for a lot of cheaper Android tablets for a while, and the Lenovo Tab P11 Pro Gen 2 doesn’t really do anything to change it.
Editors' Recommendations Lenovo’s latest tablets have Android 12L and competitive prices TCL’s Tab Pro 5G might be worth it for Verizon customers who want cheaper 5G Lenovo goes big on Android tablets, and we mean really big Huawei P40 Pro Plus vs. iPhone 11 Pro Max: Best of Huawei meets best of Apple Camera shootout: Can Huawei’s P40 Pro Plus beat Apple, Samsung, and Google? Android Google Lenovo Product Reviews Tablet Reviews Mobile As Huawei phones slowly make their way into the American public consciousness, many techies have taken notice that their flagship devices are an absolute ode to power, performance, and imaging capability. Whether you're an Apple fan or not, Huawei's newest P40 Pro is worth a look, and we're going to break down the two phones to help you make your ultimate decision if you're in the market for an upgrade. We'll be putting the Huawei P40 Pro up against Apple's iPhone 11 Pro Max, two of the best large smartphones on the market. Let's take a look.
Specs Huawei P40 Pro iPhone 11 Pro Max Mobile The Huawei P30 Pro is a hard act to follow. It had everything we wanted from a phone, from slick design and beautiful colors, to a trendsetting camera and, of course, Google Play installed.
It successor, the Huawei P40 Pro, is now here. Despite trying times for Huawei, the new phone manages to push technical boundaries, particularly with its camera. It also challenges the established method of discovering and downloading the apps we want.
Mobile Wrapped in bright orange vegan leather, the Oppo Find X2 Pro is among the most eye-catching, tactile phones of 2020. More importantly, it looks like the Find X2 Pro is Oppo’s most well-rounded phone package to date.
The newly announced Find X2 Pro provides sensory overload out of the box, but what about the rest of the phone? Following the virtual launch event in London, I spent a short time with the Find X2 Pro to see if it lives up to the expectations generated by its fantastic appearance.
Smooth, posh design While it’s a departure from the futuristic Oppo Find X, which had a form factor unlike anything before it, the Find X2 Pro is still a very attractive phone, reminding me of the 2019 Huawei P30 Pro; the curved screen, the off-center camera bump on the back, and even the vegan leather option itself is borrowed from it. This makes it pretty, well-balanced in terms of design, and comfortable to hold, but it does make it slightly derivative, especially placed alongside its unique predecessor.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
