Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Phones Best Tablets Tesla Phone Download Android 14 Best Android Phones Home Mobile Reviews Lenovo Tab P11 Pro review: Great hardware sabotaged by Android By Christian de Looper Close $500.00 Stunning design Excellent accessories Solid performance Excellent battery Subpar software experience Android apps on tablets are terrible Middling camera It’s hard to make a case for Android tablets these days, especially if they cost more than a few hundred dollars. Sure, some companies make stylish tablets with beautiful displays and top-tier performance, but they’re still held back by Android — which is awesome on phones, but not so great on tablets. Lenovo, however, thinks it has cracked the code with the new Lenovo Tab P11 Pro.
Design and display Performance, battery, and camera Software Keyboard and stylus Price and availability Our take There’s no denying it: The Lenovo Tab P11 Pro is a stunner. It’s thin, has a beautiful edge-to-edge display, and boasts solid performance thanks to the Snapdragon 730G. At first glance, it seriously makes a case for itself as a slightly cheaper alternative to the Samsung Galaxy Tab S7 , which is our top pick for Android tablets.
Lenovo’s latest tablets have Android 12L and competitive prices Lenovo’s new Tab P12 Pro, Tab P11 5G offer power and portability Lenovo’s $230 Tab P11 takes care of your stay-at-home tablet needs Ultimately, though, the Android experience is best-suited to the smartphone, and Lenovo fails to change that. Here are our thoughts on the device.
Design and display Lenovo seems to have nailed the design aspect of its tablets. The Lenovo Tab P11 Pro is sleek and stylish, looks modern thanks to its edge-to-edge display, and is built with premium materials. It reminds me a lot of the Samsung Galaxy Tab S7 , which is a good thing — I loved the overall design and feel of the Tab S7, and while the Tab P11 Pro could reasonably be called a design copy, it still looks great.
As is the trend these days, the tablet has nicely rounded corners, with a metal unibody build. On the back you’ll get a slate gray color scheme reminiscent of Apple’s Space Gray, with an antenna line on the top edge and a dual-sensor camera. The camera module protrudes a fair amount from the back of the tablet, but with the included back cove,r it’s not a big deal. We’ll go into the included accessories a little more later.
Image used with permission by copyright holder When you hold the tablet in portrait mode, the power button (with its built-in fingerprint sensor) is on the top right, with the volume rocker just next to it on the right side. On the bottom, there’s a USB-C port. There’s no headphone jack on the Tab P11 Pro.
Also on the right side is a set of sensors and cameras that can be used for facial recognition. Unfortunately, face recognition doesn’t really work all that well in my experience, and you might want to opt for the fingerprint sensor instead. Facial recognition worked accurately , it’s just that it usually took a few seconds to actually unlock the device. The fingerprint sensor worked quickly and accurately most of the time.
At only 6.9mm thick, the Tab P11 Pro feels great in the hand. At a little over a pound, it’s not overly heavy, and the bezels are the perfect size — they leave just enough room to hold the device without accidental screen touches. You wouldn’t want them any narrower.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Speaking of the screen, it’s a doozy. The Tab P11 Pro ha an 11.5-inch OLED display with a 1,600 x 2,560 resolution and a brightness of up to 500 nits. It’s beautiful. Text is nice and sharp, colors are vibrant and bright, and the tablet is perfect for watching movies and gaming. But it’s not perfect.
 As someone who regularly uses an iPad Pro , I would have loved to see a high refresh rate here, but it’s hard to really count not having a high refresh rate against the tablet given its price range.
Our first Tab P11 Pro had a screen burn-in issue right out of the box, and Lenovo quickly replaced the review unit. If you experience a similar issue, it should be covered under the limited warranty for manufacturer defects.
Performance, battery, and camera The Lenovo Tab P11 Pro is a little cheaper than the Galaxy Tab S7 , and one of the ways it cuts down on costs is with a slightly cheaper processor. But don’t take that to mean that the tablet is underpowered — it can still handle the vast majority of tasks you can throw at it, thanks to the Snapdragon 730G processor , which is coupled with either 4GB or 6GB of RAM and 128GB of storage.
Frankly, it’s more than powerful enough. No, the Snapdragon 730G isn’t as powerful as the Snapdragon 865, but it can still handle multitasking, gaming, and more. Playing Call of Duty: Mobile was a good experience, with few skips and good load times. The tablet generally handled multitasking well, including browsing the web, sending emails, using Microsoft Word, and so on.
That’s not to say it’s a performance beast.
 It still has its limits, and if you plan on using it as a replacement to a laptop, for example, you’ll reach those limits. We recommend going for the 6GB of RAM model, if you can afford it, and if you plan on using your tablet for more than just media consumption. It’s only $50 more, and it will make for a smoother experience.
Frankly, it’s more than powerful enough. No, the Snapdragon 730G isn’t as powerful as the Snapdragon 865, but it can still handle solid multitasking, gaming, and more.
The battery life on offer by the Lenovo Tab P11 Pro is excellent. The tablet comes with a massive 8,600mAh battery, which is more than enough to get it through days of use at a time. If you charge it up and don’t use it for a few days, you can expect that it’ll still have over 90% of its battery left. If you heavily use the tablet, you should still get at least a few days of use out of it before you need to charge it up.
Unlike on a smartphone, the rear-facing camera on the tablet just isn’t as important as the front-facing camera, given the fact you’ll probably use your tablet for video chatting more than taking actual photos. Unfortunately, neither of the cameras on the P11 Pro perform great.
On the back of the device, you’ll get a dual-camera setup, with one 13-megapixel main camera and one 5MP ultrawide. On the front, there’s two 8MP cameras, one for photos and one for face recognition. They’ll both do the job in decent lighting, but add any complexity to your photos or videos and you’ll likely run into issues.
Software The Lenovo Tab P11 Pro has a stunning design, an excellent display, and a great battery life. But ultimately, it doesn’t matter how great the hardware is if the software isn’t up to the task. Unfortunately, it’s not in this case.
Now, that’s not all Lenovo’s fault. Android is a great operating system, but it’s not really built for tablets, and even the Samsung Galaxy Tab S7 ‘s software experience isn’t the best. It’s really a shame, and it’s frustrating that despite how mature Android is as an operating system, it’s still not the productivity powerhouse that it could be.
That’s not to mention the fact that Android apps just aren’t really optimized for tablet use. Twitter on the tablet is basically just a stretched-out version of the smartphone app, and it looks terrible. By comparison, the iPad app splits out into columns that really take advantage of the space on offer by the big screen. That, of course, is Twitter’s fault, but it highlights the fact that Android tablets have really been forgotten — and Android tablet manufacturers look bad because of it.
Image used with permission by copyright holder As you would expect, Lenovo builds its own features into the software of the Tab P11 Pro. The tablet can be used in two different modes — a normal Android tablet mode and a so-called “productivity mode.” Productivity mode switches on by default when you connect the device to its included keyboard, but you can also turn it on without the keyboard.
Productivity mode is kind of like Lenovo’s take on Samsung DeX , but without the years of refinement. Apps are windowed instead of full screen, and you’ll get a row of recent apps on the bottom of the screen for multitasking. It’s a fine approach but it feels very unfinished. Apps, for example, don’t snap to the edge of the screen, and they load in a tiny window when you first open them up. It’s really not very well implemented, and you might actually be more productive in normal mode.
But I wouldn’t turn to the Tab P11 Pro for productivity in the first place, or at least not for its primary purpose. The device will work fine for the odd job, and actually, given the solid keyboard, might work well for things like replying to emails or writing into a word processor without needing to multitask. But don’t expect to get more productivity out of it and still retain your sanity.
All of this is made even worse by the fact that the tablet ships with Android 10, which is over a year old now. Given Lenovo’s track record with Android updates, it’s entirely possible that the tablet will never get Android 11 , let alone Android 12.
 I’d be happy to be proven wrong, though.
Keyboard and stylus The Lenovo Tab P11 Pro comes with a range of accessories to support different types of use, and these accessories are really quite nice. That’s to say, it’s a shame that the tablet’s software isn’t really built for productivity.
Protecting the tablet are a back cover and a keyboard, which can be used separately. I actually ended up simply keeping the back cover on the tablet all the time. It has a nice textile look and feel to it, plus the kickstand means that it’s easy to prop a tablet up on the table when needed. And the kickstand is infinitely adjustable, so you can set it at the angle you want. The only frustration I have with the back cover is that the hinge creates a bump along the middle of it, which means that it can’t lie flat on its back.
Image used with permission by copyright holder The keyboard matches the design of the back cover, and attaches magnetically to the bottom of the tablet. Once attached, it works pretty well. It’s not the best-feeling keyboard out there, but for a free, included accessory, it’s not bad. Keys could use a little more travel to them, but that’s a small complaint, and I still generally enjoyed typing on it … but only on a table. The kickstand design means that this is not the best device for using on your lap.
The tablet also comes with a stylus andm while it’s not bad, I didn’t get much use of it. Unlike on the Galaxy Tab S7, the stylus doesn’t attach magnetically to the tablet itself. Instead, it comes with a sleeve that you can attach to the device with an adhesive, but that’s a pretty permanent approach. Alternatively, you can attach the sleeve to a keychain. Neither of these are good solutions.
Price and availability The Lenovo Tab P11 Pro starts at $500, however, as mentioned, I recommend upgrading to the 6GB of RAM model for $550 if you want to use the tablet for any kind of productivity or multitasking. It’s available straight from the Lenovo website.
Our take The Lenovo Tab P11 Pro is a tough sell. It’s probably the best Android tablet in its price range, thanks to its excellent hardware, and the fact that there isn’t much competition out there — unless the Galaxy Tab S7 is on sale, in which case it’s a better option. Unfortunately, the Tab P11 Pro is seriously let down by a subpar software experience, making it hard to recommend to anyone who wants to do more than basic media consumption and very basic productivity.
Is there a better alternative? If you’re set on sticking within the Android ecosystem, then there are a few alternatives to consider. Perhaps the most notable is the Samsung Galaxy Tab S7 , which was available for $550 at the time of this writing. The Tab S7’s software experience still isn’t perfect, but it’s better than the Lenovo Tab P11 Pro, plus it offers improved performance thanks to the Snapdragon 865+.
If you’re not dead set to Android, the iPad Air is our top pick for the best tablet out there — and for good reason. It also has a stunning modern design and excellent performance, as well as a top-notch software experience for work or play. It’s a far better product in almost every way, except for the fact that you’ll have to pay extra for accessories like a keyboard and stylus. Even the entry-level iPad is worth considering, and while it’s not as premium-looking, it’ll still make for a better overall experience than the Tab P11 Pro.
How long will it last? The Lenovo Tab P11 Pro is built with metal and should last for at least two years of use without physical damage or any major slowdowns. You may be able to get three or four years of use out of it if you take good care of it, but be aware that it will start to slow down and that the software will feel pretty dated.
Should you buy it? No. Get an iPad Air or Samsung Galaxy Tab S7 instead.
Editors' Recommendations The best Android tablets in 2023: the 10 best ones you can buy TCL’s Tab Pro 5G might be worth it for Verizon customers who want cheaper 5G Lenovo goes big on Android tablets, and we mean really big Save $50 on latest iPad Pro 11.0 with this rare early Prime Day deal Huawei P40 Pro Plus vs. iPhone 11 Pro Max: Best of Huawei meets best of Apple Lenovo Product Reviews Tablet Reviews Mobile The Huawei P40 Pro Plus is the most technically advanced camera phone Huawei has produced yet, and has an even more capable zoom lens system than the P40 Pro, which aced a recent test against the Samsung Galaxy S20 Ultra. Now that the P40 Pro Plus is on the scene, we have given it an even harder test.
Here, it takes on the current best camera phone you can buy, the Apple iPhone 11 Pro, along with its nemesis the Samsung Galaxy S20 Ultra, and the always superb Google Pixel 4. This is as tough as camera phone tests get. Here’s how the newcomer performs against the stiffest competition we could find.
The cameras Before we get to the photos, here are the camera specs for each contender.
Mobile As Huawei phones slowly make their way into the American public consciousness, many techies have taken notice that their flagship devices are an absolute ode to power, performance, and imaging capability. Whether you're an Apple fan or not, Huawei's newest P40 Pro is worth a look, and we're going to break down the two phones to help you make your ultimate decision if you're in the market for an upgrade. We'll be putting the Huawei P40 Pro up against Apple's iPhone 11 Pro Max, two of the best large smartphones on the market. Let's take a look.
Specs Huawei P40 Pro iPhone 11 Pro Max Mobile The Huawei P30 Pro is a hard act to follow. It had everything we wanted from a phone, from slick design and beautiful colors, to a trendsetting camera and, of course, Google Play installed.
It successor, the Huawei P40 Pro, is now here. Despite trying times for Huawei, the new phone manages to push technical boundaries, particularly with its camera. It also challenges the established method of discovering and downloading the apps we want.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
