Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending in Computing: Best Dell Laptops ChatGPT Best Monitors Asus ROG Azoth Review How to delete a page in Word in 3 easy steps RTX 4080 vs RTX 4070 Ti Best Mac Apps AMD vs Intel Recall an Email in Outlook Home Mobile Reviews Lenovo Yoga Smart Tab review: A tablet, and then some By Alina Bradford Close $299.99 Built-in kickstand You can hang it Works as smart home hub Google Assistant built in YouTube dashboard is glitchy Unbalanced weight The Lenovo Yoga Smart Tab is an Android tablet that really stands out from its competitors. It packs an assortment of useful features into a 10.1-inch device, including a versatile kickstand, Google Assistant, smart hub capabilities, and much more. Here’s a look at just how smart the Yoga Smart Tab really is.
Design Software Audio Quality Performance Our take If you’re on the lookout for affordable tablet options, check out the Black Friday tablet deals list for more.
Design Image used with permission by copyright holder Where most tablets need outside help in the form of covers or stands, the Yoga Smart Tab is built to do whatever you need it to do. It has a built-in stand that pops out with the press of a button for movie watching and can be adjusted to the angle you need. It also has a prop to make typing easier when it is laying on a flat surface. You can even hang it on a wall, if the need ever arises, using the kickstand.
Lenovo’s $230 Tab P11 takes care of your stay-at-home tablet needs Take $50 off the all-new Alexa-enabled Lenovo Smart Tab with Smart Dock Since there are speakers on one side of the tablet, it’s a little awkward to hold, especially in portrait mode, since it’s heavier on one side than the other. It’s also a little bit chunky, which made my arm tired. It weighs 1.28 pounds (581 grams). Meanwhile, the Galaxy Tab S6 weighs 0.92 pounds (420g), and the Amazon Fire HD 10 weighs 1.11 pounds (504 g). That may not seem like a big difference, but when you’re holding a tablet for an hour or two, every little bit counts.
The 10.1-inch FHD IPS (1920 x 1200) screen is very clear and didn’t have much distortion when viewing it from different angles. The colors are vibrant and, when looking at photos, it almost seemed like I was looking at a high-quality print.
Software The Yoga Smart Tab is smarter than a normal tablet because it has a dedicated Google Assistant mode, and a bevy of skills along with it. Opening the tablet stand automatically turns on Google Assistant’s Ambient Mode.
 The tablet turns the always-on display into a smart screen that displays the weather, your agenda, entertainment you may like, reminders, and more. Most tablets don’t have access to Ambient Mode, so this is a great extra feature.
I really like the Ambient option because it makes it even more useful than your average Android tablet.
If you don’t want all of that jazz on your screen, you can also use the feature to make your tablet a photo frame, or a remote control for your Google Assistant compatible smart home devices. I really like the Ambient option, because it makes it even more useful than your average Android tablet. Plus, it has 360-degree far-field voice recognition, which means Google Assistant will hear you no matter where you are in the room.
Audio Quality Image used with permission by copyright holder Another feature that sets the Yoga Smart Tab apart from other tablets, like the Samsung Galaxy Tab S6 , is that it has speakers on both sides of the screen. The dual JBL hi-fi speakers and Dolby Atmos support do a pretty good job.
If you turn the volume up all the way it loses its quality.
The bass is nice as long as you don’t want it to bump too much, or listen at full volume. If you turn the volume up all the way it loses its quality, which can be a bummer if you like listening to YouTube videos on your tablet, though most tablets have this problem.
Performance Image used with permission by copyright holder The Yoga Smart Tab also has a literal smart tab. You drag the tab to the right, and it opens a YouTube dashboard. Though this is convenient, it’s also glitchy. Sometimes I couldn’t get videos to play through the dashboard (I just saw the buffering circle of doom). However, if I opened the actual YouTube app, videos played perfectly.
The screen’s performance was excellent good. Scrolling, navigating, and opening up apps were smooth, without any of the lag that you find with some tablets. With a Qualcomm Snapdragon 439 processor and 4GB of RAM , however, it’s not a great choice for graphics-intensive games. Many 3D titles will stutter and hesitate.
The battery life on the Tab is decent. It can last for up to 11 hours if you’re just browsing the internet and offers up to 10 hours of video playback. This is comparable with the battery life we experienced with the Galaxy Tab S6.
Our take While it’s not perfect, the Yoga Smart Tab by Lenovo is a dependable, dual-purpose device that combines the smart display with a tablet. Its versatile stand and smart home hub features make it more useful that many tablets on the market. Otherwise, the screen and sound are on par with its competitors. The only real drawback is the unbalanced feel and the added weight when you’re holding the Smart Tab.
Are there better options out there? Maybe. It just depends on your needs. If you’re looking for an outstanding Android tablet, the Galaxy Tab S6 is tough to beat. One thing that the S6 doesn’t have, though, is Google Assistant ’s Ambient Mode feature, which means it can’t be used as a hub for your smart devices like with the Yoga Smart Tab. If the hub wasn’t all that interesting to you, you may want to go with the S6. If price is a factor, the Yoga Smart Tab, at around $300, is also half the price of the S6.
How long will it last? The Smart Tab is very well made, and I think it will go the distance since it is constructed with aluminum instead of just plastic. It also comes with a one-year warranty.
Should you buy it? Yes, if you have a lot of smart home products that are compatible with Google Assistant , this tablet is a great choice.
Editors' Recommendations Lenovo goes big on Android tablets, and we mean really big YouTube launches fresh new homepage on iOS and Android tablets and desktops Computing Android Google Google Nest Laptop Reviews Laptops Lenovo Product Reviews Tablet Reviews Wearable Reviews Windows Reviews Mobile Google's popular line of Pixel devices includes smartphones, tablets, smartwatches, and wireless earbuds -- and they're all available with eye-catching discounts in this year's Black Friday deals. if you've had an eye on any one of them, you should take advantage of the offers that retailers have rolled out for the shopping holiday, and you need to act fast because stocks will run out quickly due to high demand. To help you out, we've rounded up our favorite Google Pixel Black Friday deals below.
Google Pixel Watch Black Friday deals The Google Pixel Watch 2 is already out, which means the Google Pixel Watch is a prime candidate for a discount on Black Friday. It's still a perfectly capable smartwatch though, even with the launch of its successor, as it runs on Google's Wear OS for access to a wide range of apps and health-monitoring features on your wrist. You need to push through with your purchase as soon as possible though, as stocks are already probably running low on most Black Friday smartwatch deals.
Mobile One of the biggest promises of 5G technology isn’t merely faster performance but rather the ability to power a far more connected world — a global network where every device can get online from just about anywhere.
That’s the vision behind MediaTek’s new M60 5G modem and T300 chip, which aim to be small and efficient enough to bring 5G to wearables, internet-of-things (IoT) devices, and other electronics that benefit from reliable internet connectivity but don’t require the massive speed and bandwidth of modern laptops and smartphones.
Reduced capability for greater efficiency Mobile Amazon Fire tablets may not be as powerful as Apple's iPads and Samsung's Galaxy Tabs, but they remain very popular among shoppers because they're relatively affordable options that provide sufficient performance for day-to-day use. If you want to stick to a tight budget when buying from Black Friday tablet deals, you should consider going for one of the several models of the Amazon Fire tablet, available in Amazon Black Friday deals. To help you make a quick decision so you can finalize your purchase before the discounts go offline, we've rounded up the most interesting Black Friday deals for Amazon Fire tablets, including our favorite bargain.
Amazon has a ton of early discounts right now, including Amazon Echo Black Friday deals and Amazon Fire TV Black Friday deals.
The best Amazon Fire tablet Black Friday deal Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
