Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Phones Best Tablets Tesla Phone Download Android 14 Best Android Phones Home Mobile Nokia T20 tablet review: A mixed bag of performance and price By Adam Doud Close $249.00 Nice design with a beautiful color Great price Decent performance Google TV hub is pretty great Poor network connectivity and battery life Screen doesn't get bright enough.
Volume doesn't get loud enough The Android tablet market is largely dominated by iPads and Amazon Fire tablets, but the Nokia T20 is worth considering. If you’re looking for a tablet that is less expensive than an iPad, but more useful than an Amazon Fire, the Nokia T20 is a good budget option, with only a couple of minor pitfalls.
Design and display Performance, battery, and camera Software Price and availability Our take One of the (only) benefits of using an Android tablet (as opposed to a Fire) is access to Google services and the app store. Gmail, Maps, and Drive are central to my workflow. And while it’s true that most Android apps aren’t ideal for the tablet form factor, the Play Store is a much better app ecosystem than Amazon’s app store. Plus, Google recently introduced Android 12L , designed for tablets and foldable, which points to Google’s interest in supporting the form factor. So now might be a good time to jump on board the Android tablet bandwagon.
Nokia gets back in the tablet game with the $250 Nokia T20 Life with the Pixel 5, OnePlus 8T, and Galaxy S20 FE: Which is worth your $700? 6 key Samsung Galaxy S20 Ultra features that elevate its performance — and price Overall, the Nokia T20 does a pretty good job as a media streamer and can even make a case to be a productivity machine. Let’s dig into it.
Design and display Image used with permission by copyright holder The Nokia T20 tablet has a glass and aluminum construction, so you won’t mistake it for a budget device. The Deep Ocean colorway on the back is a pleasant blue shade. It gives the tablet an overall classic and understated look that you’d want in a coffee table tablet. One downside is that the display doesn’t get bright enough for outside use. Otherwise, it is a sharp, 10.4-inch diagonal with a 1200 x 2000 resolution, resulting in an odd 5:3 aspect ratio. That puts it somewhere between 16:9, which is great for movie watching, and 2:3, which is great for productivity.
This tablet does a pretty good job as a media streamer and can even make a case to be a productivity machine.
The aspect ratio means the tablet is awkward to hold for reading in the Kindle app. It’s too wide and too tall to hold one-handed in either orientation. That leaves you either holding the tablet with both hands or setting it on a table to watch movies or TV. Speaking of watching movies, most have black bars on the top and bottom, but they’re not distracting since letterboxing is pretty common for TVs, too.
Image used with permission by copyright holder In landscape orientation, you’ll find the power button in the upper-left corner. The volume rocker is on the top in the same corner. You can expand the 32 or 64GB of internal storage with a microSD slot on the top-right side. Stereo speakers on either side put out good sound that’s not quite as loud as I’d like. There’s a headphone jack in an odd place in the rounded corner of the tablet. I didn’t expect to find it there, so much so that I didn’t even notice it for the first week. Finally, there’s a single USB-C port for charging and data on the right side.
The power button is somewhat inconveniently placed, as I found myself accidentally turning off the tablet when gaming or when just holding the tablet with two hands. That gets really annoying when playing a game or reading. That, combined with the weight, means this tablet is going to excel when you can set the tablet into a stand and watch a video, or when you attach a wireless keyboard for some light writing. That’s exactly how I wrote this review as a matter of fact.
Performance, battery, and camera Image used with permission by copyright holder This section is going to be where I highlight the ups and downs of this tablet. What’s important to remember here is the price point. While the price won’t compare too favorably with a Fire tablet, it’s very favorable compared to even a base model iPad. But that favorable price comes with some compromises.
Put frankly, performance and battery are not particularly great. While the tablet can run games like Call of Duty: Mobile pretty well, loading the game is very slow. Apps have a tendency to lag as you launch them, and even when you switch back to them while multitasking.
Network connectivity is not great either. The tablet sometimes had trouble playing or resuming a video stream on my mesh home Wi-Fi. I tested it on either my iPad or Lenovo Tab 13 Yoga when that happened.
 Neither had any trouble playing the same content at the same time. Add to that the performance lag, and that doesn’t spell good things for the hardware.
The battery is an 8,200mAh battery pack, which is good for about a day to a day and a half. If you’re streaming videos or gaming, that’s going to chew through the battery pretty quickly. After 30 minutes each of streaming Netflix at 75% brightness and playing Call of Duty: Mobile , the battery sat at 80%. By contrast, most phones can do both of those activities, along with 30 minutes of navigation, and have more left in the tank.
A good tablet will usually give you a solid two days. This one falls short of that, so remember to plug it in at night.
The battery life isn’t terrible, but it isn’t among the best either. I often found myself picking up the tablet in the morning, only to find the battery near 25%. A good tablet will usually give you a solid two days. This one falls short of that, so remember to plug it in at night.
As for the cameras, there are two. You get a 5-megapixel shooter on the front, which is clear and great for video calls and the like. There’s an 8MP shooter on the back, which is fine for scanning documents or QR codes. Those are the only acceptable uses for a tablet camera, by the way. Please don’t be the person who holds your slate up to record a concert.
Software Image used with permission by copyright holder The software on the Nokia T20 is fairly close to a stock Google experience. That’s a good thing because there’s not a lot of extra bloatware taking up space. I turned on gesture navigation right away, because that’s how I roll. Unfortunately, on a tablet, multitasking takes several seconds to come up when you’re using gesture navigation. It takes so long, I often have to remind myself that I am, in fact, doing it right. Since I’ve seen this phenomenon on other tablets, I can assume this is an Android thing, not a Google thing. That doesn’t make it less irksome.
One delightful part of the software is also a stock Google component. The Google TV hub is pretty awesome. It’s a combination of the various services you’re signed up for that can curate content for you to watch from Amazon Prime, Netflix, Hulu , YouTube, and others. While I certainly miss the Google News feed, this is an acceptable replacement, especially given the nature of Android tablets. They’re content-consumption machines, first and foremost.
As I mentioned earlier, you can use the tablet as a productivity machine, but there’s no software here that enables that, like on the Lenovo Tab 11 Plus.
 Besides, just because you can do something on this tablet, doesn’t mean you should.
One delightful part of the software is also a stock Google component. The Google TV hub is pretty awesome.
Other aspects of the software sing the same refrain they’ve sung for years.
Android apps are not optimized for a tablet screen. Hopefully, Android 12L (if it comes to this tablet) will fix that problem. But for now, all you can expect are normal Android apps stretched out to cover a wider area. That’s not the fault of Nokia, though; that’s Google’s fault, and it’s high time Google fixed it. What would be Nokia’s fault would be if this tablet never sees Android 12L. Nokia isn’t exactly known for its software updates, and while Nokia promises three years of security updates, I wouldn’t hold my breath for OS updates.
Price and availability The Nokia T20 tablet is available in the U.S. for $249 from Nokia.com or Amazon. In the U.K., pricing starts at 199 pounds. The main difference between the U.S. version of the tablet and the global version is in LTE connectivity. The U.S. tablet does not have that; the global release does.
Our take Image used with permission by copyright holder Overall, this is a nice coffee table tablet that’s good for content consumption and some games. It lives in that weird space between being more useful than an Amazon Fire tablet, and less expensive than an iPad. It’s a knockabout tablet that gives you a good screen for watching movies, and in a pinch can even help you get some productive work done.
While it’s good for the price, if you really want a great tablet, spend about $100 more and get a 9th-generation iPad. If you only want a tablet for movies and a game or two, get an Amazon Fire.
 But if you want something that bridges the gap, and lets you use Google services, the use of which cannot be overstated, then this is a good tablet to pick up that won’t break the bank. Just don’t expect an amazing app experience or any software updates.
Is there a better alternative? Of course. Probably the best Android tablet you can buy is the Samsung Galaxy Tab S7.
 The best tablet you can buy overall is the iPad Pro , though if you want to stay in the sub $500 category, look to the iPad Mini. This is an area where Apple has locked up the field and the Nokia T20 does nothing to change that fact. It’s not a terrible tablet, but it’s not really a good one either.
How long will it last? The aluminum construction feels sturdy. Assuming there are no accidental spills or tumbles, the hardware should last a good long time. We can make zero guarantees about software updates, though, and history is not on Nokia’s side. Nokia does promise three years of security updates, so there’s that. What we can promise is that this tablet will get you your money’s worth over its lifetime.
Should you buy it? No. But that’s the answer we’ll give you for almost every Android tablet we look at. Google is just not there yet, but there is hope on the horizon. If Google is serious about Android 12L, that can change the conversation.
Android is a wonderful operating system on phones, but the experience doesn’t translate well to larger screens, and it’s a shame it took foldable phones to make Google finally realize that.
Editors' Recommendations OnePlus Nord N20 5G heads exclusively to T-Mobile on April 28 New Nokia 5.4 delivers strong specs at a price that can’t be ignored Samsung Galaxy S20 FE vs. OnePlus 8T Nokia 9 PureView vs. OnePlus 6T: Which affordable flagship reigns supreme? Honor View 20 vs. OnePlus 6T: Hole punches versus notches Android Product Reviews Tablet Reviews Mobile A new year approaches, which means a new slate of smartphones will start to hit in a few months. One of the first that we’ll see in 2024 should be from OnePlus with its flagship OnePlus 12.
The OnePlus 11 is an excellent phone, as we indicated in our review. It’s one of the best phones you can get in 2023, and is right up there with great competitors like the Samsung Galaxy S23 Ultra, Google Pixel 8 Pro, and iPhone 15 Pro Max.
Mobile If you were hoping that the recently released Apple Watch Ultra 2 will appear with a discount in this year's Black Friday deals, you're in luck because the smartwatch's 49mm, GPS + Cellular model is currently $60 off from Amazon. From $799, the wearable device is down to $739 -- it's still not cheap, but it's rare to enjoy savings when buying an Apple product that's just a couple of months old. There's no telling how long the offer will remain online though, so before it gets taken down, push through with your purchase.
Why you should buy the Apple Watch Ultra 2 We tagged the Apple Watch Ultra 2 as the best premium smartwatch for the iPhone in our list of the best smartwatches, and at first glance, it's obvious why. The 49mm titanium case and Always-On OLED touchscreen will catch anybody's attention because of their size and brightness, while the wearable device itself is very fast and smooth because it's powered by Apple's new S9 chipset. The Apple Watch Ultra 2 can last up to 36 hours on a single charge that may be extended to up to 72 hours in Low Power Mode, and it offers a comprehensive suite of health-related and fitness features. It also comes with the customizable Action button for a more convenient way of accessing your apps.
Mobile Double Tap is one of the coolest features I’ve used on the Apple Watch in a long time. It’s not the most useful, and I don’t find myself using it that often, but when I do have a need to tap my fingers together to activate a function, I’m still at the stage where I think, “Wow, this is a really impressive thing.” Here’s why it’s an example of what Apple does best — and why there’s so much potential for the future in it.
I was worried about Double Tap Apple Watch Series 9 Andy Boxall / Digital Trends Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
