Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Phones Best Tablets Tesla Phone Download Android 14 Best Android Phones Home Mobile Reviews Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Samsung Galaxy Tab S8 Plus review: As good as it can get By Adam Doud Close $900.00 Powerful Beautiful hardware Gorgeous display Great speakers Productivity powerhouse Keyboard case not included Some software trouble Android tablets have gotten a bad rap up until now, largely because neither Google nor developers seemed to care much about them. But there’s one company that does care about them — Samsung. Much like the smartphone market, Samsung has set up shop as the go-to tablet maker when it comes to high-end premium Android tablets. The Samsung Galaxy Tab S8 tablets are Samsung’s latest attempts at making great Android tablets.
Hardware, display, and design Keyboard cover and S Pen Software Camera and audio Performance, security, and battery Other features Laptop replacement? Pricing and availability Our take Dear reader, Samsung is there. But the tablet is not perfect, and only some of that is Samsung’s fault. I’ve been using the Samsung Galaxy Tab S8 Plus as my only tablet for three weeks, and this is my full review.
Samsung Galaxy S24: news, rumored price, release date, and more The best Android tablets in 2023: the 10 best ones you can buy Fixing your broken Samsung phone is about to get easier Hardware, display, and design Adam Doud/Digital Trends One of the high points of the Samsung Galaxy Tab S8+ is the design and build quality. Put simply, this tablet is absolutely gorgeous. The 12.4-inch screen is expansive with small, but noticeable bezels all around that are perfect for holding the tablet. The Armor Aluminum frame is sturdy and exudes a premium feel. Around the edges, in landscape orientation, you’ll find speakers top and bottom on both sides, a power button and volume rocker on the top along with the SIM and SD card tray, and a USB-C Charging and data port on the right. On the back, there’s a camera housing that extends most of the way across the back of the tablet. This is where you can magnetically store and charge the included S Pen.
The tablet is very thin at just 5.7mm and weighs just 567 grams. My review unit is the Wi-Fi only model; the 5G model is heavier at 572 grams. These specifications do not include the weight of the keyboard case or the S Pen. On the inside, you get a Qualcomm Snapdragon 8 Gen 1 processor, 128GB of on-board storage, and 8GB of RAM.
 The tablet is powered by a 10,090 mAh battery that can be charged at 45 watts if Samsung bothered to ship a charger in the box.
Overall, the design of this tablet just exudes a premium feel.
The display is a beautiful 12.4-inch, 120Hz AMOLED panel with a resolution of 1752 x 2800. It has really sharp contrast and color reproduction. It’s covered in Gorilla Glass 5 and offers great viewing angles. The screen also holds a fingerprint sensor located on the right side (sorry southpaws) when the tablet is in landscape orientation.
The 16:10 aspect ratio is great for video consumption, but a little on the short side for some tasks. My Lenovo Legion 5i has the same aspect ratio, but its 16-inch screen is better-suited to work-related tasks. For a screen this small, I’d like to see something close to 3:2, but that’s my only complaint.
Overall, the design of this tablet just exudes a premium feel. From the thinness, to the build materials, to the screen, this is a tablet that business professionals would be proud to pull out of their briefcase. It’s a home run.
Keyboard cover and S Pen Along with the tablet, you get an S Pen, and my review unit included the book cover with keyboard that costs an extra $160. That’s a shame, and we’ll talk about the book cover first. Put simply, the Samsung Galaxy Tab S8+ is really only a great work PC-replacement with the keyboard cover. The keys are slim and have good travel. The buttons are not mushy. The keyboard layout is awesome with great pitch between the keys. The keyboard is plastic, so if you’re typing on a surface that isn’t flat, there’s a lot of flex. That could make it hard to type on your lap. The keyboard cover also only holds the tablet at a single angle; it’s not adjustable.
Adam Doud/Digital Trends The pogo pins on the bottom of the tablet snap magnetically into the keyboard case and automatically launch Samsung Dex, which we’ll get into in the next section. There’s nothing exceptional about the keyboard; it’s good but not great. Combine that with its necessity in a tablet this premium, and there’s simply no reason why the keyboard shouldn’t be shipped in the box. Even if you added $100 to the price of the tablet to do it, it would be worth it.
I will point out how sweet it is that the S Pen from my Galaxy S22 Ultra also works on this tablet.
The S Pen is a great device that’s easy to hold and write with. It’s very responsive with minimal latency. It’s great for everything from drawing cartoons to selecting text. Writing is smooth, but Samsung seems to have trouble translating my chicken scratch into text. Granted, my handwriting is terrible, but Apple’s Scribble does not have nearly the amount of trouble recognizing my writing.
I will point out how sweet it is that the S Pen from my Galaxy S22 Ultra also works on this tablet. That’s honestly not something Samsung had to include, but it did and I appreciate it.
Software The Samsung Galaxy Tab S8+ works on Android 12, and I used Samsung DeX most of the time. Samsung DeX basically Window-fies your Android tablet by adding a system tray with notifications in the bottom-right corner and a dock showing your active apps across the bottom of the screen. Sound familiar? If you’re thinking it sounds like a desktop operating system, you’re correct.
DeX also allows you to use apps in resizable windows, meaning you can get some really hard ore multitasking done. I used the Galaxy Tab S8+ as my work machine for three days during my testing period, and it worked great. I was able to write, videoconference with my team, edit articles, and move tasks through Asana with ease. At times, I forgot I was working on an Android tablet.
Adam Doud/Digital Trends The shortcomings that I find in the software are not even Samsung’s fault. Asana, the task management service we use at Digital Trends, works great as a web interface, but is a bit of a dumpster fire as a mobile app. Fortunately, I’m able to request the desktop site in Chrome to get back to the workflow I know and love.
The 1Password app just flat-out won’t run in DeX mode for some reason. This becomes a bit of a chore since it’s my primary password manager, so I found myself having to swap back to tablet mode just long enough to copy and paste a password before switching back to DeX mode.
All of these inconveniences point out the clear and obvious flaw in the Galaxy Tab S8+. It’s an Android tablet, and if you find yourself unconsciously nodding right now, I don’t blame you. The fact of the matter is that many apps emulate Asana and 1Password in the Android world. Some apps are perfectly fine, don’t get me wrong. But as for the rest, they either don’t work well or, in same cases, they don’t work at all. This is not Samsung’s fault per se. Indeed, there’s little Samsung can do about any of this, which means all it can do it smile and shrug.
In professional sports, one of the worst things an organization can do to its fans is say, “I don’t know,” as in “I don’t know why that ball that was obviously a strike was called a ball” or “I don’t know why the referee missed that call.” I don’t know why 1Password doesn’t work in Dex mode. That’s not great, but I feel like I’m harping, so I’ll move on.
Camera and audio On a tablet, the only cameras that count are the front-facing cameras for videoconferencing. On the back are two cameras. There’s a 13-megapixel main camera and 6 MP ultrawide camera. I don’t advise you use them for anything but document scanning, and even then, only if you’re desperate. It’s not because they’re bad; they’re fine. But you have a phone in your pocket. Use it. All the same, I swallowed my pride and snapped a few shots below.
Previous Next 1 4 Adam Doud/Digital Trends Adam Doud/Digital Trends Adam Doud/Digital Trends Adam Doud/Digital Trends The front-facing camera is a 12MP 120-degree ultrawide camera that looks really good during video meetings. The wide field of view captures plenty of background. The auto framing that Samsung brought to its phones is here, and it is good, but aggressive. The camera pans at the slightest movement, which is what it’s supposed to do of course. I would probably prefer just a bit of extra smoothing on that pan to make it look crisp, but people I videoconferenced with had no complaints.
Performance, security, and battery Adam Doud/Digital Trends / Digital Trends On the performance end, the tablet performs like a champ. Samsung had a bit of a dust up with Geekbench of late, but the app still works. I ran a few other benchmark tests and the results are below: Geekbench single core: 1,205 Geekbench multi-core:3,258 Geekbench OpenCL: 5,839 3DMark Wild Life: 8,605 (Average frame rate 51.50) GFX T-Rex Test: 6,693 frames Battery life is very good on the tablet. I typically ended most full workdays with 20% to 25% left in the tank. A workday for me includes music streaming, video streaming, videoconferencing, web surfing, and any number of texts, chats, and emails to respond to. I never had trouble getting though a day and even had some left for video watching or reading at night.
Other features There are two other features that this tablet comes with that are noteworthy. The first is the ability to use the tablet as a second screen for your Windows laptop. This is similar to many wireless displays you may have used in the past.
Personally, I have previously used a free app called Spacedesk that suited me just fine. I connected it to a 10-inch tablet and used it to dock a Netflix window or a YouTube music player. The screen was really too small for it to be truly useful as a second screen, but it was a nice place to tuck away a window where it was easily accessible. This was a long anecdote intended to tell you that the same is basically true here. Even with a 12.4-inch screen, I found the screen space just too small to accomplish a lot of work. Also connectivity was spotty. This feature isn’t done baking yet.
On the other hand, using your Galaxy S22 Ultra as a companion to drawing apps on the Galaxy Tab S8+ works pretty well. You first connect your phone to the tablet using a QR code, and from there you can select tools, colors, and more on your phone. It’s neat, but there are a couple of drawbacks.
Using your Galaxy S22 Ultra as a companion to drawing apps on the Galaxy Tab S8+ works pretty well.
The only app where that functionality exists is in Clip Studio Paint, which is not a very good app. I’m not an artist — I have friends for that — but Clip Studio Paint was troublesome to log into, and the drawing experience was just ok. Plus, when I use my phone as a toolbox/color picker, the tools are still on the screen of the tablet which defeats the purpose of using the phone. Not all the tools are selectable on the phone. Overall, it’s an interesting, but half-baked solution.
Laptop replacement? Adam Doud/Digital Trends The big question here is whether or not you can use this tablet as a laptop replacement. They answer is not really clear. The hardware is certainly not lacking. Again, I would prefer a taller screen just because of how Digital Trends’ CMS works, but I was able to write and edit stories with no problem. Also, I was able to complete multiple workdays using only this tablet. That’s not insignificant.
Those days did not include the need to do any image editing though. I still haven’t found a great app for image editing for Android , nor have I found a good one for multi-track audio editing. Therein lies the problem. This tablet is more than powerful enough to do the work I need it to do, but the software isn’t there yet.
Pricing and availability The Samsung Galaxy Tab S8+ is available to purchase today at Samsung.com , Best Buy, and Amazon. It retails for $900.
Our take Adam Doud/Digital Trends This is one of the best Android tablets you can buy, but it has a price to match. It’s dwarfed in size, price, and usability by its larger sibling, the Samsung Galaxy Tab S8 Ultra , but the Tab S8+ is in the Goldilocks zone of computing tablets. It is not too small and not too big. It’s large enough to do your work, and small enough to fit easily into a bag. Yes, it’s expensive, but it comes with so much capability that if you are an Android fan, and especially if you’re a Samsung fan, you might easily choose this over a comparably priced laptop without missing a beat.
It’s not perfect, but it’s very close. If Samsung shipped the keyboard that I’m using to write this review in the box, it’s a solid 10. As it stands, I have to give it a nine because without the keyboard, the usability drops precipitously. On the other hand, if you have a great Bluetooth keyboard that you love, this tablet will pair very nicely to it. DeX is outstanding at mimicking a desktop computing experience. If the rest of the software not made by Samsung ever catches up, laptop makers might start to sweat.
Is there a better alternative? If you’re looking for better Android tablets, the Tab S8 Ultra is the only one. If you don’t care about Android , the Apple iPad Pro will give you a similar experience, but the desktop computing experience is not good at all. If you want Android but not Samsung, you’re out of luck. This is the best Android tablet you can buy. In fact, given a choice between the Galaxy Tab S8 Ultra , and this one, I’ll probably take this one because it’s just a little bit more portable.
How long will it last? This tablet is very well-built, but like all tablets, it’s vital to get a case. It can be the keyboard cover I got with my review unit, or any number of other cases that will keep this football field-sized piece of glass safe. If you do, this tablet should last you a long time. It will last at least as long as the software does. Samsung promises three years of OS updates and four years of security updates.
Should you buy it? Yes, assuming you need it. If you’re looking for a content consumer or a Netflix box, there are any number of tablets that will fit that bill for far less money. But if you want a tablet that can work and play with you, and you want it to be Android , this is the best there is.
Editors' Recommendations The best Samsung Galaxy S23 Plus cases: 21 you can’t ignore Best tablet deals: Save on iPad, Galaxy Tab, Fire tablet, and more The best Android phones in 2023: the 16 best ones you can buy Samsung just announced another new phone (and two Android tablets) Best Samsung Galaxy Z Fold 5 deals: How to get the phone for free Product Reviews Samsung Tablet Reviews Mobile Upon launch, the Samsung Galaxy Z Flip 5 soon found itself a firm favorite among the best folding phones thanks to being extremely well-built, offering great performance, and good cameras. However, just because it's a premium phone doesn't mean you should have to settle for paying premium prices. That's why we've picked out all the best Samsung Galaxy Z Flip 5 deals and listed them below. Available across many different retailers and in various forms like through trade-in deals or simply being cheaper than usual, there's something for everyone here.
Samsung Galaxy Z Flip 5 deals at Samsung Go directly to the source by buying the Samsung Galaxy Z Flip 5 from Samsung, and you can get up to $600 instant trade-in credit. It depends on what phone you're trading in but it's useful if you prefer to go direct.
Mobile The Samsung Galaxy S23 Ultra is one of the hottest new phones out there. You can get a good deal on the phone if you look around a bit, with even more coming off if you're willing to sign up for a new line with a different carrier or trade in your old phone. Here's what we've found so far.
Samsung Galaxy S23 Ultra deals at Amazon Amazon is offering a 14% discount on the 512GB version of the Samsung Galaxy S23 Ultra, bringing the price from $1,380 to $1,180. That's a savings of $200 to get the new phone. This version of the phone is unlocked for any carrier, so you have the freedom to use whatever plan you choose with it.
Mobile Samsung flagship shoppers are apparently in for a bad surprise with Samsung’s next wave of camera-centric Galaxy S flagship phones. The folks over at SmartPrix (in collaboration with @OnLeaks) have shared purported renders of the Samsung Galaxy S24 and Samsung Galaxy S24 Ultra, and there are both good and bad surprises to unpack here.
Starting on a positive note, it looks like Samsung is abandoning the cause of curved screens, years after wowing the world with the Samsung Galaxy Note Edge and continuing with its curved glass aesthetics for multiple generations. If the leaked media is anything to go by, the Galaxy S24 Ultra will serve a flat screen.
This is certainly good news for folks worried sick about ghost touches alongside the curved edges and the damage-prone nature of such a design. The curved glass exit is marked by the arrival of slimmer bezels, which are uniform on all sides. Apparently, the Galaxy S24 Ultra will have the slimmest bezels that Samsung has ever offered on a phone.
I am a sucker for curved glass aesthetics, but I would be lying if I disparage the looks of the Galaxy S24 Ultra’s impressively thin bezels. A few weeks ago, another leaker (@UniverseIce) posted a concept-based rendition of the Galaxy S24 Ultra, highlighting the fresh looks. The rest of the package, however, remains unchanged from a design perspective.
Just like the Samsung Galaxy S23 Ultra, we get flat metallic side rails with subtly rounded edges. Speculations point toward a 6.8-inch display with 2,000 nits brightness output, Qualcomm’s upcoming Snapdragon 8 Gen 3 chip inside, up to 16GB of RAM, 2TB storage, and four cameras at the back in a familiar floating lens look.
Next, we have alleged renders of the vanilla Galaxy S24. It takes the design foundations of the Samsung Galaxy S23 and gives it an unwelcome twist. I am talking about that flattened frame with sharp edges. Samsung is clearly imitating the looks that Apple introduced with the iPhone 12 Pro series (before it reversed course with the iPhone 15 Pro).
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
