Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Apple Watch Series 8 vs Apple Watch Series 7 Best Apple Watch Faces Apple Watch SE 2 vs Apple Watch SE Apple Watch Series 8 vs Apple Watch Ultra Track Sleep with an Apple Watch Home Mobile Products Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Apple Watch Ultra 2 vs. Apple Watch Ultra: should you upgrade? By Bryan M. Wolfe Close Digital Trends Apple has once again asserted its dominance in the premium smartwatch market by launching the Apple Watch Ultra 2 , which replaces the previous model, the original Apple Watch Ultra , after just a year. While the first-generation Apple Watch Ultra was groundbreaking, the latest model is more of an incremental upgrade, with only minor tweaks.
Apple Watch Ultra 2 vs. Apple Watch Ultra: specs Apple Watch Ultra 2 vs. Apple Watch Ultra: design Apple Watch Ultra 2 vs. Apple Watch Ultra: display Apple Watch Ultra 2 vs. Apple Watch Ultra: internal hardware Apple Watch Ultra 2 vs. Apple Watch Ultra: battery Apple Watch Ultra 2 vs. Apple Watch Ultra: health and fitness Apple Watch Ultra 2 vs. Apple Watch Ultra: environmental impact Apple Watch Ultra 2 vs. Apple Watch Ultra: price and availability Apple Watch Ultra 2 vs. Apple Watch Ultra: a worthy upgrade? If you own the earlier version of the Apple Watch Ultra , you might be wondering whether it’s worth upgrading to the new one. To answer this question, we need to address two central issues: 1) whether you plan on utilizing the fresh features and 2) whether or not you mind paying for the somewhat pricey new device.
Boasting the largest and most brilliant Apple Watch display to date, the Apple Watch Ultra 2 is packed with new features, including a brand-new S9 chipset. As a bonus, users can also use a new feature called Double Tap, just like on the Apple Watch Series 9.
Black Friday Apple Watch deals: Save on Series 9, Ultra, and more Apple Watch Ultra 2 just got its first serious discount Apple Watch is bringing back a popular feature soon Here’s a detailed comparison between the Apple Watch Ultra 2 and the original Apple Watch Ultra to help you decide whether it’s worth the upgrade.
Apple Watch Ultra 2 vs. Apple Watch Ultra: specs Apple Watch Ultra 2 Apple Watch Ultra Display 49mm titanium case size Always-On Retina display Up to 3000 nits 410 by 502 pixels 1,185 sq mm display area 49mm titanium case size Always-On Retina display Up to 2000 nits 410 by 502 pixels 1185 sq mm display area Processor S9 SiP with 64-bit dual-core processor W3 wireless chip 4-core Neural Engine S8 SiP with 64-bit dual-core processor W3 wireless chip 4-core Neural Engine Speakers Dual speakers and a three-mic array with beamforming and wind noise mitigation Dual speakers and three-mic array with beamforming Storage Capacity 64GB Capacity 32GB Battery Built-in rechargeable lithium-ion battery Up to 36 hours Up to 72 hours low power mode Fast charging Built-in rechargeable lithium-ion battery Up to 36 hours Up to 60 hours low power mode Fast charging Dimensions and weight 49mm x 44mm x 14.4mm 61.4 grams 49mm x 44mm x 14.4mm 61.3 grams Software watchOS 10 watchOS 9 (upgradeable to watchOS 10) Sensors Blood oxygen sensor Electrical heart sensor Third-generation optical heart sensor Ambient light sensor Water temperature sensor Blood oxygen sensor Electrical heart sensor Third-generation optical heart sensor Ambient light sensor Water temperature sensor Connectivity Cellular connectivity on GPS + Cellular model Cellular connectivity waypoints Supports Family Setup International roaming Second-generation Ultra Wideband chip Wi-Fi 4 Bluetooth 5.3 Cellular connectivity on GPS + Cellular model Cellular connectivity waypoints Supports Family Setup International roaming U1 chip (Ultra Wideband) Wi-Fi 802.11b/g/n 2.4GHz and 5GHz Bluetooth 5.3 Material and colors Natural titanium Natural titanium Durability 100-meter water resistance Recreational dive to 40 meters Certified IP6X dust resistant Tested to MIL-STD 810H 100-meter water resistance Recreational dive to 40 meters Certified IP6X dust resistant Tested to MIL-STD 810H Price $799 $799 Apple Watch Ultra 2 vs.
Apple Watch Ultra : design Apple Watch Ultra 2 Joe Maring / Digital Trends The Apple Watch Ultra 2 is a smartwatch almost identical in design to its predecessor, right down to its natural titanium case. The only noticeable difference is the new bands that come with it. The good news is that these new bands work with the Ultra 2 and the first-generation Ultra.
Apple Watch Ultra Andy Boxall / Digital Trends The launch of the Apple Watch Ultra 2 introduced a unique watch face that quickly became the talk of the town. The highlight of this model is the way the outer edge of the device is utilized to display real-time data such as seconds, altitude, and depth. The watch face has been thoughtfully designed to offer more customization options than any other digital face from Apple. This means you can personalize it to your liking, whether you’re into sports, outdoor activities, or water-based pursuits.
The good news? The new watch face is also compatible with the original Apple Watch Ultra. So, if you love the look of the new watch face, but don’t feel like spending another $799 just to get it, you won’t have to.
Apple Watch Ultra 2 vs. Apple Watch Ultra: display Joe Maring / Digital Trends Both models have a sleek 49mm titanium case and a stunning Retina display that is always on. The display has a resolution of 410 by 502 pixels, and the same display area is available on both models. However, the new Apple Watch Ultra 2 has a brighter display than the previous model. It offers 3,000 nits of brightness, which is 50% more than the 2,000 nits that was previously offered.
This is a significant improvement, and it’s the brightest display ever included on an Apple Watch. This means that you can easily read the screen even in bright sunlight, which is great if you spend a lot of time outdoors.
Moreover, the Apple Watch Ultra 2 has a unique feature that allows the screen to lower its brightness to just one nit in dimly lit rooms. This feature is perfect for not disturbing someone else in the room early in the morning. In addition, you can temporarily double the brightness of the screen by rotating the Digital Crown of the Apple Watch Ultra 2. This feature is pretty cool and useful.
Apple Watch Ultra 2 vs. Apple Watch Ultra: internal hardware Apple Watch Ultra 2 (left) next to the Apple Watch Ultra Joe Maring / Digital Trends The Apple Watch Ultra 2, much like its cousin, the Apple Watch Series 9 , is loaded with the advanced S9 chip, providing various system improvements. Thanks to Apple’s 4-core Neural Engine, the S9 chip unlocks new features for your enjoyment. Among them is the ability to use Siri on the device itself, allowing you to securely and privately access and store your health data straight from your Apple Watch. What’s even more impressive is that requests that don’t require an internet connection will still be processed without Wi-Fi or cellular data.
According to Apple, the upgraded Neural Engine results in a 25% boost in accuracy for speech recognition. A new double tap gesture gives you the power to execute various everyday actions with just one hand using your index finger and thumb. That’s right, without even touching the watch’s display! And as if that wasn’t enough, the double tap gesture also allows you to access the Smart Stack from the watch face , while another double tap allows you to scroll through the widgets in the stack smoothly.
Precision Finding feature on the Apple Watch Ultra 2 Joe Maring / Digital Trends The Apple Watch Ultra 2 also has an extra feature that teams up with the watch’s second-gen Ultra Wideband chip called Precision Finding. This feature works with the Find My app and helps you locate your lost iPhone or other gear in a jiffy. When you activate Precision Finding, you get visual, haptic, and audio cues, plus details on how far away and which way to go to find your lost tech. No more tearing up the house looking for your stuff! Finally, the Apple Watch Ultra 2 also includes double the storage compared to the original Apple Watch Ultra ; instead of 32GB, you’ll receive 64GB. That means you can store more photos, music, and podcasts directly on your wrist.
Apple Watch Ultra 2 vs. Apple Watch Ultra: battery Andy Boxall / Digital Trends When the first Apple Watch Ultra was launched, one of its standout features was its significantly improved battery life. While the regular Apple Watch could only last for 18 hours, the original Apple Watch Ultra promised an impressive 36 hours between charges. With the release of the Apple Watch Ultra 2, the maximum battery life remains the same. However, there’s a new change to the low-power mode. Apple promises 72 hours this time instead of the previous 60, which is quite impressive.
Although it’s unfortunate that the maximum battery life hasn’t increased for normal usage, it’s worth noting that it’s still twice what the Apple Watch Series 9 can deliver, which is only 18 hours. Both Apple Watch Ultra models support fast charging, which makes charging relatively pain-free.
Apple Watch Ultra 2 vs. Apple Watch Ultra: health and fitness Christine Romero-Chan / Digital Trends The original Apple Watch Ultra was built to handle all types of outdoor workouts, while the latest version, the Apple Watch Ultra 2, offers even more features for those who enjoy water sports and mountain climbing. Like its predecessor, the new wearable device is perfect for kitesurfing, wakeboarding, and recreational scuba diving, with the ability to go as deep as 40 meters. The updated Oceanic app also includes freediving as a new option.
Additionally, the Depth app on the new watch lets you save logs of your sessions and review them later, complete with GPS coordinates accessible through the Fitness app on your iPhone. The new watchOS 10 update has several health and fitness features available on both versions of the Apple Watch Ultra. This includes better cycling workouts with Live Activity on iPhone, an updated Compass app that shows your elevation and a 3D view of waypoints, new topographic maps in the Maps app, mental health support tools, and more.
The important thing to remember is that all of the Apple Watch Ultra 2’s new fitness features are software-related — meaning they’re coming to the first Apple Watch Ultra via watchOS 10 updates. No matter which Ultra you have, you’re getting the same health/fitness tools.
Apple Watch Ultra 2 vs. Apple Watch Ultra: environmental impact Apple Apple has announced its ambitious goal to attain carbon neutrality for all its products by 2030. The company has already made significant progress in this direction by achieving this feat for its Apple Watch, with certain case and band combinations for the Apple Watch Ultra 2 now being carbon-neutral. Apple has utilized 95% recycled materials in the titanium case to achieve this. Moreover, the Apple Watch Ultra 2 uses several materials, including tungsten in the Taptic Engine, rare earth elements in all magnets, and tin in the solder of multiple printed circuit boards crafted from 100% recycled materials.
Other materials in this new watch with this distinction include gold in the plating of several printed circuit boards, foil in the main logic board, copper wire in the Taptic Engine, and cobalt in the battery. For your Apple Watch Ultra 2 purchase to be carbon-neutral, you must purchase one with one of Apple’s new Alpine Loop or Trail Loop bands.
Apple Watch Ultra 2 vs. Apple Watch Ultra: price and availability Joe Maring / Digital Trends You can order the Apple Watch Ultra 2 from the Apple website or through a third-party retailer. If you’re hoping to get your hands on the original Apple Watch Ultra , unfortunately, it’s no longer available for purchase through Apple.
However, don’t lose hope just yet. You may still be able to find one at discounted prices from retailers such as Best Buy and Amazon for the foreseeable future. Both Apple Watch Ultra models are priced at $799.
Apple Watch Ultra 2 vs. Apple Watch Ultra: a worthy upgrade? Apple Watch Ultra 2 (top) next to the Apple Watch Ultra Joe Maring / Digital Trends Before Apple introduced the Apple Watch Ultra 2, the rumor mill said the biggest difference between it and the original model would be the case color. As the story went, the new watch would feature a dark titanium finish versus the natural titanium finish found on the older model. That didn’t happen.
Instead, the Apple Watch Ultra 2 is packed with modest changes compared to its predecessor. Most of these changes are internal and center around its new S9 processor, though other upgrades — like double the storage and a 50% brighter display — are also nice to see.
Do these changes justify upgrading from the Apple Watch Ultra to the Apple Watch Ultra 2? For most people, probably not. Faster performance, a brighter display, and new gestures are very cool indeed. But is that all worth spending another $799 this year? We don’t think so. The Apple Watch Ultra 2 is absolutely worth it if you’re buying your first Apple Watch Ultra , but for anyone rocking the first model, you’re better off waiting to see what Apple has to offer next year.
Editors' Recommendations Best Black Friday smartwatch deals: Apple, Samsung, Garmin, and more Double Tap is the coolest Apple Watch feature I’ve used in ages How I use my Apple Watch and iPhone to manage my diabetes The best Garmin Watch Black Friday deals you can shop now Here’s our first look at OnePlus’ next Apple Watch killer Apple Apple Watch Versus Wearables Mobile Once upon a time, you could buy a fitness tracker like a Fitbit, strap it on your wrist, and go about your life. There’d be a companion app that would sync with your tracker, giving you an in-depth look at your daily activity, health stats, and even sleep tracking. All of this data was available for free; you just had to buy the tracker itself. One and done.
But things aren’t so simple now. Sure, you do have smartwatches like the Apple Watch that can also keep track of your daily activity and health metrics, but there’s a whole other world of dedicated fitness and health trackers as well. These typically can provide even more in-depth data about your health and well-being, but a lot of them have, unfortunately, moved to subscription-based models. Though they may have free tiers available, they’re almost worthless with the information you get without paying.
Mobile Black Friday deals have begun early at Walmart with some fantastic Apple Watch deals meaning that the Apple Watch Series 9 is enjoying its first big discount. Usually priced at $399 for the 41mm model and $429 for the 45mm model, you can now save $50 off the regular prices and snag an Apple Watch Series 9 from just $349. Sure to be popular, let's take a quick look at what it offers before you hit the buy button.
Apple Watch Series 9 (41mm, GPS) -- $349, was $399: Apple Watch Series 9 (45mm, GPS) -- $379, was $429: Mobile Google Pixel Watch 2 Andrew Martonik / Digital Trends The Google Pixel Watch was clearly a laggard when it launched last year. It was easily overlooked beside more tempting options in the Wear OS dominion, and grossly overshadowed by the popularity of the Apple Watch. This year, Google looks to switch things up by bringing massive improvements with the Google Pixel Watch 2 that launched alongside the Pixel 8 Series of phones at Google's Fall 2023 event.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
