Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Apple Watch Series 8 vs Apple Watch Series 7 Best Apple Watch Faces Apple Watch SE 2 vs Apple Watch SE Apple Watch Series 8 vs Apple Watch Ultra Track Sleep with an Apple Watch Home Mobile News Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? The Apple Watch could get two amazing health features next year By Nadeem Sarwar Close Andy Boxall / Digital Trends Long-standing rumors point to the 2024 Apple Watch being truly special in a few ways. A new design is one of the hot rumors, but it seems Apple wants to make another health-centric leap by allowing the smartwatch to read blood pressure and also look for signs of sleep apnea.
According to Bloomberg , the next Apple Watch will come equipped with a new sensor that will measure variations in blood pressure. A successor slated for arrival in 2025 could measure the exact systolic and diastolic blood pressure values.
To start, it seems Apple is taking a cautious approach. The feature has reportedly been in development for around a decade now, per a Bloomberg investigation , but it seems like the 2024 Apple Watch will finally offer the capability to buyers.
The idea here is that the watch will look for any abnormal fluctuations in blood pressure and will accordingly inform users. Think of it like an early warning, which a person can then share with their doctor to see if they are at risk of any serious issues.
Blood pressure sensing would apparently follow the same kind of early warning pattern as AFib detection on Apple Watches capable of electrocardiogram (ECG) sensing. Apple won’t be the first to the party, though.
Xiaomi recently launched the Xiaomi Watch H1 , which is capable of blood pressure measurement using a micropump array fitted inside the strap. The company has even received the Food and Drug Administration approval for it as a Class II medical device. Samsung also offers a blood pressure measurement ability on the Galaxy Watch 6.
 The Huawei Watch D was the first to offer this feature on a mass-market device.
Interestingly, Apple also explored a band-based approach similar to that of Xiaomi and Huawei. Bloomberg claims that Apple was once testing a blood pressure sensor fitted inside the strap without the need for inflating it. It was reportedly the brainchild of famed former Apple designer Jony Ive.
“The company prototyped watch straps with sensors that gather data from the underside of the wrist and researched both a bed-mounted sleep tracker and a nightstand device with sensors to monitor users overnight before pushing the technology into the watch itself,” the Bloomberg report stated.
Also on tap is the ability to detect signs of disorders such as sleep apnea. The Apple Watch already offers a pretty comprehensive sleep analysis system, but it doesn’t delve into the realm of medical assistance for serious sleep issues.
Apple Watch Series 8 Joe Maring / Digital Trends According to Bloomberg, the sleep apnea detection system will rely on sleep as well as breath patterns to look out for signs of breath apnea. It’s not a proper diagnosis, but a broad estimation. Based on what it infers from the data, the upcoming Apple Watch will accordingly suggest users visit a doctor.
According to the American Academy of Sleep Medicine , approximately 5.9 million American adults are diagnosed with obstructive sleep apnea (OSA), while nearly 23.5 million remain undiagnosed. The cost of diagnosed OSA runs around $2,100 per person, while for an undiagnosed case, it is estimated to reach over $6,300 for each individual.
Apple has a chance to capitalize on this health gap with its characteristically smooth execution, similar to the way it implemented features like AFib detection and fall detection.
Editors' Recommendations The iPad is going to get an amazing new feature in 2024 How I use my Apple Watch and iPhone to manage my diabetes Here’s our first look at OnePlus’ next Apple Watch killer Waiting for the Apple Watch Ultra 3? We have bad news I’d love to buy an Apple Watch, but there’s something stopping me Apple Apple Watch Tech News Wearables Mobile Some Apple Watch owners are experiencing an issue where the display flickers or pulses when the Always On mode is enabled.
The good news is that Apple is now investigating the issue, according to the contents of an internal service memo shared with Apple Authorized Service Providers and seen by MacRumors.
Mobile Rumors have suggested Apple may announce new iPads soon. Before that might happen, the company has surprised us all and announced a new Apple Pencil. Its placement in the rest of the Apple Pencil lineup could cause confusion, however.
The Apple Pencil (USB-C) — that's the official name — is a stylus that works with any iPad with a USB-C port. This includes the iPad Pro 12.9-inch (3rd, 4th, 5th, and 6th generation), iPad Pro 11-inch (1st, 2nd, 3rd, and 4th generation), iPad Air (4th and 5th generation), iPad mini (6th generation), and iPad (10th generation).
Mobile I have heard some people criticize this year's Apple Watches, saying they are not much different from the previous models. While it is true that the Apple Watch Series 9 and Apple Watch Ultra 2 are strikingly similar to their predecessors, there are some tweaks about the new wearables that should not be overlooked.
As anyone who already owns a new Apple Watch will tell you, new features this time around include brighter displays, a new processor, more storage, and more. There's also the Double Tap feature, which Apple is expected to unleash in just a few weeks.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
