Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Apple Watch Series 8 vs Apple Watch Series 7 Best Apple Watch Faces Apple Watch SE 2 vs Apple Watch SE Apple Watch Series 8 vs Apple Watch Ultra Track Sleep with an Apple Watch Home Mobile News Waiting for the Apple Watch Ultra 3? We have bad news By Bryan M. Wolfe Close Apple Watch Ultra 2 (left) and the Apple Watch Ultra Joe Maring / Digital Trends When Apple released the Apple Watch Ultra 2 in September, it was quickly evident that it was nearly identical to its predecessor. This suggested Apple had significant changes planned for the wearable device in 2024 with the Apple Watch Ultra 3. However, this assumption may be incorrect. There might not be a new version of the Apple Watch Ultra in 2024 after all.
According to Apple analyst Ming-Chi Kuo , no work is currently being done on the next Apple Watch Ultra , which is unusual given the traditional product development timeline. However, there could be some sound reasons for this.
Kuo says Apple may be delaying the release of the Apple Watch Ultra 3 to focus on developing cutting-edge health-management features and ensuring the manufacturability of those features. The company may also be taking the time to address the challenges associated with microLED production. It is rumored that the new Apple Watches will switch to microLED technology from OLED.
Joe Maring / Digital Trends The analyst says if Apple does not release a new model of Apple Watch Ultra next year, there could be a 20% to 30% decline in sales of this particular model compared to the previous year. Apple Watch shipments could also fall 10% to approximately 35 million units.
How I use my Apple Watch and iPhone to manage my diabetes Here’s our first look at OnePlus’ next Apple Watch killer I wore a G-Shock watch that rivals the Apple Watch Ultra 2 The Apple Watch Ultra 2 and the first Apple Watch Ultra , launched in September 2022, are strikingly similar.
 In fact, on the outside, they are identical. Inside, the newer model includes the all-new S9 chipset, which is also present in this year’s Apple Watch Series 9.
The new S9 chip enables faster Siri capabilities while providing onboard access to health data. Additionally, the always-on LTPO OLED display now offers a peak brightness of up to 3,000 nits. The previous version provided peak brightness up to 2,000 nits. In lowlight situations, it now dims to 1 nit.
The newer model also offers double the onboard storage (64GB), 72 hours of lo- power mode, and a second-generation Ultra Wideband chip. The Apple Watch Ultra 2 users can also utilize the new Double Tap feature.
That’s all to say the Apple Watch Ultra 2 should be a more than capable smartwatch for years to come. Regardless, it will be odd to have had two years of back-to-back Apple Watch Ultra releases and then nothing at all in 2024. Only time will tell what actually happens, but this is certainly something to keep an eye on.
Editors' Recommendations Double Tap is the coolest Apple Watch feature I’ve used in ages Apple Watch is bringing back a popular feature soon Subscriptions are quickly ruining fitness trackers The Apple Watch could get two amazing health features next year I’d love to buy an Apple Watch, but there’s something stopping me Apple Apple Watch Tech News Wearables Mobile Some Apple Watch owners are experiencing an issue where the display flickers or pulses when the Always On mode is enabled.
The good news is that Apple is now investigating the issue, according to the contents of an internal service memo shared with Apple Authorized Service Providers and seen by MacRumors.
Mobile You’ve probably never seen an iPhone case like this before, and there’s a very good chance you’ve never used one like it before, either. It’s the Oceanic+ Dive Housing, and it seals your iPhone in a pressured environment to keep it safe so you take photos deep underwater without risking damage. What’s more, it turns your iPhone into a dive computer, and it works alongside your Apple Watch Ultra or Apple Watch Ultra 2.
You may be familiar with Oceanic+, the app that turns the Apple Watch Ultra into a dive computer. It’s being updated to version 2.0, and along with a suite of new features comes compatibility with the new Dive Housing. Put your iPhone inside it, and an automatic vacuum pump starts to seal it safely inside, a process completed after a few minutes and various leak tests. It’s then ready to be taken underwater to a depth of 60 meters and controlled using the Bluetooth-connected physical buttons on the case.
Mobile I have heard some people criticize this year's Apple Watches, saying they are not much different from the previous models. While it is true that the Apple Watch Series 9 and Apple Watch Ultra 2 are strikingly similar to their predecessors, there are some tweaks about the new wearables that should not be overlooked.
As anyone who already owns a new Apple Watch will tell you, new features this time around include brighter displays, a new processor, more storage, and more. There's also the Double Tap feature, which Apple is expected to unleash in just a few weeks.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
