Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Apple Watch Series 8 vs Apple Watch Series 7 Best Apple Watch Faces Apple Watch SE 2 vs Apple Watch SE Apple Watch Series 8 vs Apple Watch Ultra Track Sleep with an Apple Watch Home Mobile Deals Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Apple Watch Ultra just got an unprecedented price cut By Andrew Morrisey Close Joe Maring / Digital Trends Fitness enthusiasts can get excited for some savings today, as one of the better smartwatch deals we’ve found is on the Apple Watch Ultra. In fact, this is one of the lowest prices we’ve seen on the popular smartwatch, as you can get the Apple Watch Ultra for just $629 at Best Buy. This is a savings of $170 from its regular price of $799. Free shipping is included, and so are four free months of Apple Music and four free months of Apple Fitness+.
Why you should buy the Apple Watch Ultra The Apple Watch Ultra is a more recent addition the Apple Watch lineup, and while there is a newer model available in the Apple Watch Ultra 2 , this first-generation model is still incredibly capable and worth the savings it offers. When it comes to the full scope of the Apple Watch lineup, the Ultra sits at the top. It’s made to be rugged, durable, and stylish, and makes good accompaniment both in the wild and out on the town. It comes with LTE cellular capability as a standard feature, so you can pair it with your carrier and get internet service anywhere your carrier provides coverage.
From a use-case standpoint, the Apple Watch Ultra has a lot to offer, even compared to other Apple Watch models. It has the brightest display amongst Apple Watches, which improves legibility in all conditions. It has a precision, dual-frequency GPS system that provides accurate location for calculating distance and for routing maps. It can also reach up to 36 hours of battery life on a single charge, so you can get out into the wild for stretches knowing you’ll have battery life without having to worry about getting back to a charger. If you prefer to ensure you always have the newest tech on your arm, you can take a look at this watch alongside its newer iteration in our Apple Watch Ultra 2 vs. Apple Watch Ultra comparison.
While the Apple Watch Ultra regularly costs $799, it offers $170 in savings with this deal at Best Buy, and is seeing a sale price of $629. Free shipping is included, as well as four month of free access to Apple Music and Apple Fitness+.
Editors' Recommendations Google Pixel 8 and Pixel 8 Pro just had their prices slashed Best Black Friday smartwatch deals: Apple, Samsung, Garmin, and more Google Pixel Black Friday deals: Pixel 8, Pixel Watch, Pixel Buds and more Best refurbished Apple Black Friday deals on AirPods, iPads, iPhones, and more The best Garmin Watch Black Friday deals you can shop now Deals Apple Apple Watch Wearables Mobile If you already own the new Apple iPhone 15 or any of its variants but you're still stuck with a basic case, it's highly recommended that you take advantage of this year's Black Friday deals to enjoy some savings on a much-needed upgrade. Not only should you be providing the necessary protection for your iPhone 15 to keep it unscathed, but it would be a huge bonus to place it in a case that looks stylish and matches your personality. However, there's a problem -- there are thousands of iPhone 15 case deals that are available for Black Friday, so it's going to be very hard to narrow down your choices. That won't stop us from trying though, so you should read on.
Best iPhone 15 case Black Friday deal For serious protection without making your iPhone 15 too heavy, you should go for the OtterBox Commuter Series, which is on sale in Amazon's early Black Friday deals for $35 instead of $40. The $5 discount may not look like much, but it's a welcome bonus for what we've tagged as the best rugged case in our roundup of the best iPhone 15 cases. It's capable of withstanding three times the military standards for drop protection with a hybrid dual-layer construction that combines recycled rubber with a rigid outer shell, but it stays slim and lightweight so your iPhone 15 won't feel like a brick in your hands. We're not sure if this lowered price will remain online through to the shopping holiday, so you should think about making the purchase right now.
Web Best Buy is one of the key retailers when it comes to offering fantastic Black Friday deals. That means it's the perfect place to check out awesome TV deals, laptop deals, and even great sales on appliances too. With hundreds of options newly available, we've helped you out by picking out some highlights. Below, you'll find all the best Best Buy Black Friday deals on TVs, laptops, gaming PCs, headphones, appliances, and other items too.
Best Buy Black Friday TV deals Mobile Black Friday deals have begun early at Walmart with some fantastic Apple Watch deals meaning that the Apple Watch Series 9 is enjoying its first big discount. Usually priced at $399 for the 41mm model and $429 for the 45mm model, you can now save $50 off the regular prices and snag an Apple Watch Series 9 from just $349. Sure to be popular, let's take a quick look at what it offers before you hit the buy button.
Apple Watch Series 9 (41mm, GPS) -- $349, was $399: Apple Watch Series 9 (45mm, GPS) -- $379, was $429: Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
