Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending in Computing: Best Dell Laptops ChatGPT Best Monitors Asus ROG Azoth Review How to delete a page in Word in 3 easy steps RTX 4080 vs RTX 4070 Ti Best Mac Apps AMD vs Intel Recall an Email in Outlook Home Computing Products Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? These are the best graphics cards to use in an external GPU enclosure By Jon Martindale Close Using an external graphics card is a great way to boost your laptop's graphics power for gaming or professional 3D work, but buying the best eGPU enclosure is only half the battle. You need to buy the graphics card, too, and it's not as straightforward as just buying the best graphics card you can afford. As powerful as Thunderbolt 3 and 4 are, they're not fast enough for the fastest of cards.
But that doesn't mean you can't have a great experience using external graphics. Here are the best graphics cards to use as eGPUs.
Save on everything from laptops and tablets, to coffee makers and air purifiers, and a whole host of Apple tech like iPad, Apple Watch and even the latest M3 MacBooks, as well as smart home essentials like the Amazon Echo and smart bulbs.
Jacob Roach / Digital Trends AMD Radeon RX 7600 Best eGPU for most gamers Solid 1080p gaming performance Aggressive pricing Only a single 8-pin power connector Compact design Memory interface limits higher resolutions Ray tracing performance is lacking Why should you buy this: It offers great performance for playing games at 1080p, at a great price.
Who’s it for: eGPU gamers who want a modern, capable GPU for 1080p gaming.
What we thought of the AMD Radeon RX 7600: The AMD RX 7600 is a great entry-level graphics card from AMD's latest RDNA 3 generation. That gives it excellent performance for 1080p gaming, and makes it a great candidate for eGPU gaming. It has a low 165-watt TDP and a compact size, so it will fit in with just about any external graphics enclosure.
This card is low-power enough that you'll be able to use it to its full potential without the USB/Thunderbolt interface bottlenecking it, and with optimized FidelityFX Super Resolution (FSR) support , in compatible games it will deliver really impressive performance. It's not powerful enough for 1440p, but you'll be able to play most games on medium or high settings at a steady 60 frames per second (fps) with this card.
If you want to save a little, you could opt for the last-generation RX 6600, but it's around a third slower for not much money off.
Jacob Roach / Digital Trends Nvidia RTX 4060 Best Nvidia GPU for eGPUs DLSS 3 Excellent efficiency Price reduction compared to last-gen Strong ray tracing performance Beaten by cards that are only $30 more Limited memory interface Weak at higher resolutions Why should you buy this: It's a great alternative to the RX 7600.
Who’s it for: Nvidia fans who want DLSS support.
What we thought of the Nvidia RTX 4060: The Nvidia RTX 4060 is a good current-generation graphics card with solid performance, great ray tracing performance for the money, and full support for Nvidia's DLSS upscaling algorithm. This combination makes it a great alternative to the RX 7600 we recommend up top, but it does come in with a much higher tag.
You get the DLSS support for that, and CUDA support in a range of professional applications, so this would be a great choice for an eGPU user who wants to work and play with their new external graphics card. It's also relatively compact and power efficient, so sit hould work in just about any eGPU enclosure.
It lacks the kind of performance necessary for higher resolution play, but you shouldn't have any major bottlenecks with this card.
MSI AMD RX 6750 XT Best graphics card for 1440p Powerful 1440p performance Very affordable price Reasonable power draw Has 12GB of VRAM Last-generation architecture Poor ray tracing performance Why should you buy this: It's a powerful graphics card at a great price.
Who’s it for: Gamers who want to play at 1440p without spending too much.
What we thought of the AMD RX 6750 XT: The RX 6750 XT might have been a late-generation refresh, but it's proved to be one of the most enduring graphics cards of its generation. It offers excellent performance that competes with much more modern cards, and has 12GB of VRAM, which means it avoids all the problems faced by some 8GB cards as demands of modern games increase. It should still be fast many years into the future, where cards with 8GB or less may suffer.
It's a last-generation design, so its ray tracing performance isn't great, but it is incredibly affordable due to its elder status. It lacks support for DLSS, but supports FSR, so in compatible games, you can get a big boost in performance.
You'll likely see some bottlenecking with this card due to the constraints of the USB/Thunderbolt interface you're connecting it with, but it won't be so egregious that you'll feel you've wasted your money.
Jacob Roach / Digital Trends Nvidia RTX 4070 Ti Best high-end graphics card for eGPU DLSS 3 Excellent thermal performance Solid value at 1440p and 1080p Poor performance at 4K Will likely sell above list price Why should you buy this: It's a powerful graphics card with DLSS and CUDA core support.
Who’s it for: Gamers and workers who want to max out their eGPU performance.
What we thought of the Nvidia RTX 4070 Ti There are better bang-for-the-buck graphics cards than the RTX 4070 Ti, but it is about as powerful as you can go with an eGPU without experiencing extreme bottlenecking. It's capable of 1080p, 1440p, and even a little 4K gameplay when paired with a powerful CPU and memory, although it's more designed with 1440p in mind.
Its ray tracing performance, thanks to the new-generation RT cores, is stellar, opening up higher detail settings in a range of games. The real kicker as an eGPU, though, is its DLSS support. This gives it much greater performance in compatible games, while cutting down on the bandwidth demands of native rendering.
It's fitted with a great quantity of CUDA cores, too, making this an excellent GPU for accelerating professional and creative tasks in compatible software. It's expensive, and you won't be able to use its full power, but it's a great all-around eGPU for top-tier performance.
This is also just about the fastest graphics card Nvidia makes that can actually fit in most eGPU enclosures. The RTX 4080 and 4090 are more powerful, but they're gigantic and have monstrous power requirements.
Jacob Roach / Digital Trends AMD RX 7800 XT Best high-end graphics card for eGPU gaming Reasonably priced 100-plus fps at 1440p Solid ray tracing performance Plenty of VRAM Standard 8-pin power No DLSS Still weaker than Nvidia with ray tracing Why should you buy this: It's a powerful graphics card for 1440p and 4K gameplay.
Who’s it for: Gamers who want as much power as they can get for their eGPU.
What we thought of the AMD RX 7800 XT: The AMD RX 7800 XT is one of the best of the latest generations of graphics cards, offering impressive performance at a very affordable price. It uses AMD's latest RDNA 3 architecture, giving it not only great general rasterization performance, but also impressive ray tracing performance for an AMD GPU.
There's 16GB of VRAM, so you're future-proofed against the next generation of games with their higher RAM requirements, and it's optimized for FSR, so you can really boost your performance in compatible games. It also supports FSR 3, so you can use AI to enhance your frame rate further.
This GPU will be bottlenecked by the eGPU interface, so don't expect desktop-grade performance. However, it's not so egregious that you're losing half the card's power like you would with the very top GPUs. And it's more than capable of playing any game you throw at it at any setting.
If you don't care about the bottleneck -- or are hoping Thunderbolt 5 saves you from it -- then check out our list of the best graphics cards overall.
 There are some even more powerful options on that list.
Editors' Recommendations Best GPU Black Friday deals: Save on top graphics cards now Best GPU deals for 2023: Get an RTX 3060 for under $300 The best 1080p graphics cards in 2022: great options for Full HD Best Products GPUs Computing Black Friday deals are a great place to check for a new laptop. Amazon has its fair share of them, on every kind of machine from gaming laptops to Chromebooks. We've picked out our favorites below and categorized them. All of these deals are available right now, even though Black Friday is still a ways away. Make sure to check back for new Black Friday laptop deals before the shopping holiday starts, including Black Friday gaming laptop deals if you want to play on the go.
Best Amazon Black Friday laptop deals If you're looking for a general-purpose laptop, this is the category for you. Amazon has discounted computers from some of our favorite brands, like HP and Acer. These laptops will vary in power and size. If you're looking for something with expensive components, check the gaming laptops below. If power isn't so important, but the price is, check out Chromebook deals under this or Black Friday HP laptop deals.
Computing Black Friday deals present the perfect time to save some money on a new laptop. There are a lot of Black Friday laptop deals that cut prices by the triple digits. Check out Amazon Black Friday laptop deals when you get a chance too -- there are also some great discounts there. One of our favorite laptop lines is the Dell XPS. This is Dell's most popular line of laptops. In some ways, they are Dell's answer to the MacBook -- they are sleek, thin, and prioritize gorgeous screens. We've collected the best Dell XPS laptop deals below, splitting them up by size. For other Dell laptops, like the G15 or the Inspiron line, check out our more generic Dell Black Friday deals list.
For the most part, the only difference is the screen size, but with a bigger screen comes a bigger chassis. That means there's more room to pack in powerful components and extra goodies like backlit keyboards. Check out our picks of the best Dell XPS deals below.
Best Dell XPS 13 Black Friday deals Computing There are a lot of great Black Friday deals on laptops popping up as we get closer to the Black Friday and Cyber Monday weekend, but we've found a few great deals at Best Buy that are going to expire very soon. Luckily, the deals we've found are spread across budgets and brands, and we've even found a couple of gaming laptops for you to pick from. We've also included some Chromebooks for those who might not want to go with a Windows laptop. Best Buy Black Friday TV deals are blowing up equally as much, so check those out if you're trying to use up a gift card.
Our Favorite Best Buy Black Friday Laptop Deal Lenovo Slim 3 Chromebook -- $149, was $319 Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
