Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Phones Best Tablets Tesla Phone Download Android 14 Best Android Phones Home Mobile Deals Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? The original Google Pixel Watch is a great buy while it’s $80 off By Jennifer Allen Close Andy Boxall / Digital Trends As one of Best Buy’s early Black Friday deals , you can currently buy the Google Pixel Watch for $200 saving you $80 off the usual price of $280. While it isn’t the latest model any more, this is still one of the best smartwatch deals at the moment. If you’re not sure if you should opt for it or pay more for the Google Pixel Watch 2, we’re here to help. Keep reading while we explain all as well as remind you of the deal involved.
Why you should buy the Google Pixel Watch The Google Pixel Watch doesn’t make the cut among the best smartwatches but it’s still worth checking out for many people. It has an attractive 1.2-inch always-on display with up to 1,000 nits of brightness which is actually the same as the Google Pixel Watch 2.
An older processor means it’s a little slower but you still get core fitness features. It has a blood oxygen saturation monitor, along with ECG facilities, and an optical hearty rate sensor. Again, that’s a few less features than the Google Pixel Watch 2 which adds on superior sensors like body response tracking and skin temperature sensors, but you’ll still be happy with what’s here.
The Google Pixel Watch will still track all your fitness and health, such as calories burned, steps taken, and the workouts you participate in, all thanks to Fitbit integration. It’s easy to look up turn-by-turn navigation using Maps as well as pay with Google Wallet. It all comes together nicely so you can track your wellbeing from one device.
So, should you go for the Google Pixel Watch over the newer 2 model? In terms of looks and screen quality, there’s not much in it. However, the Google Pixel Watch 2 offers better performance and more sophisticated sensors, as well as automatic workout tracking for certain common exercises. The downside? The Google Pixel Watch 2 costs $150 more than the Google Pixel Watch does right now. We have a full explainer of the differences between the Google Pixel Watch and Google Pixel Watch 2 to help break things down but some of it is going to depend on your finances.
If you’re not convinced you need those extra features, you’ll be delighted with the Google Pixel Watch. Down to just $200 from $280 at Best Buy, you save $80 but you also potentially save $150 compared to buying the superior but not necessarily essential Google Pixel Watch 2. Check it out now and see what works best for you.
Editors' Recommendations Google Pixel 8 and Pixel 8 Pro just had their prices slashed Google Pixel Black Friday deals: Pixel 8, Pixel Watch, Pixel Buds and more The best Garmin Watch Black Friday deals you can shop now Over 100 more Best Buy Black Friday deals just went live Apple Watch Series 9 just got its first big discount for Black Friday Deals Android Google Google Pixel Wearables Mobile The best smartwatches are a great option for fitness enthusiasts, as are the best fitness trackers. Many of them are quite expensive, however, which makes something like the Samsung Galaxy Watch 4 enticing if you aren’t interested in all of the latest bells and whistles. Currently the Galaxy Watch 4 is discounted to just $99 for an early Black Friday discount at Walmart, which is a savings of $50 from its regular price of $149. Walmart is including free shipping with a purchase as well.
Why you should buy the Samsung Galaxy Watch 4 A good smartwatch typically offers all sorts of fitness tracking capabilities in addition to some features you often find on your smart phone, such as messaging and music controls. The Samsung Galaxy Watch 4 can do a lot of what you’d expect from the newest smartwatches, despite now being a couple of generations old. There are more recent Samsung releases such as the Samsung Galaxy Watch 5 and the Samsung Galaxy Watch 6 that aren’t necessarily as enticing, particularly if you’re shopping on a budget. The Samsung Galaxy Watch 4 still holds up in terms of style, functionality, and features, and it still makes a great option to help you keep up with your health goals.
Computing Microsoft has monopolized the gray area between tablets and computers with its Surface Pro line. The newest entry is the Surface Pro 9, a great option for both professional users and casual users like students. If you've been browsing laptop deals and tablet deals and haven't found something that fits exactly what you need, this discount on the Surface Pro 9 might be just what you're looking for.
Right now the Surface Pro 9 is down to $1,000 at Best Buy after a $540 discount. Best Buy is labeling this offer as part of their Black Friday deals, but we're not sure how long it will actually be around. Best Buy's early Black Friday sale is split up into a few phases, and the deals might end before the shopping holiday actually starts. If you're interested in a Surface Pro, grab this one before the deal is gone.
Mobile You don't need to spend several hundred dollars if you want to get a dependable tablet, especially with tablet deals like this one from Best Buy -- the Lenovo Tab M9 for just $100, following a $40 discount on its original price of $140. As part of the retailer's early Black Friday deals, we expect the offer to draw a lot of attention, but once it's gone, we're not sure if it will return for the actual shopping holiday. If you want to make sure that you get this Android tablet for much cheaper than usual, you shouldn't hesitate to buy it right now.
Why you should by the Lenovo Tab M9 tablet If you manage your expectations with the Lenovo Tab M9, you'll be getting a device that will be able to handle your day-to-day functions. It's not going to be as fast as the high-end models among the best tablets, but with the octa-core MediaTek Helio G80 processor and 3GB of RAM, it will provide decent performance for work and school tasks such as doing online research, managing spreadsheets, and communicating with your colleagues. It's also perfect for recreational activities such as watching streaming shows and playing mobile games, as the tablet features a 9-inch touchscreen with 1340 x 800 resolution.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
