Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Phones Best Tablets Tesla Phone Download Android 14 Best Android Phones Home Mobile Features I made a normal person wear a smart ring. What happened was fascinating By Andy Boxall Close Nothing says “normal” like a person wearing a smart ring and holding a mug of tea Andy Boxall / Digital Trends “Want to try a smart ring?” I asked my friend during one of our fairly frequent conversations about how we should be exercising more, and generally improving our health through activity.
What’s different about this test? Too much information Depth and understanding of the data What about the ring itself? The potential to change lives “Sure,” he replied, his voice a mix of tones ranging from sad resignation about the current state of affairs to cautious optimism about the future.
So the next week, I handed over an Ultrahuman Ring Air.
 Six weeks later, I sat down to talk about his experience with it. How would a normal person find life with a smart ring, and would it help push him to do more? I wore smart glasses that made me excited for the future Forget the Oura Ring — Samsung might be making a new smart ring Meet Evie, the smart ring for women set to shake up wearables at CES 2023 What’s different about this test? Andy Boxall / Digital Trends Health and fitness products are often bought by regular people who want (or know) they should be a little fitter and more active. They’re not only looking to quantify any changes they make to their lifestyle but also to hopefully gain some motivation to do it in the first place. The ideal product is some kind of wearable, whether it’s a Fitbit , a smartwatch , or a smart ring.
What’s different about a normal person wearing one and not me, a tech journalist? It’s my job to assess how well this kind of device works, and while I obviously report on whether it pushes me and provides actionable, helpful data, I’m aware it’s also something that I have to do. My motivations are a little different. Even if I can’t really be bothered to go for a walk or workout, I do it because I’m testing the product, not just because I’m specifically trying to get fitter.
What happened during our conversation after those six weeks wearing the Ultrahuman Ring Air was fascinating, as it gave a very real insight into how life is with a fitness wearable from the perspective of someone whose only motivation was to improve and learn more about their body.
Let me introduce you to Normal Matt, who doesn’t cycle 50 miles a week and has never entered a tough mudder event; he is a moderately active person who wants to be healthier. Let’s see whether wearing a smart ring has put him firmly on the road to greater fitness.
Too much information Andy Boxall / Digital Trends “I was interested to learn about my movement and see where I could improve,” Matt told me. He described himself as “stubbornly lazy” when it came to going beyond basic exercise, so the Ultrahuman Ring Air had its work cut out from the start, but he said he was keen to understand where he could change — and how much of an impact it would make when he did. It was clear the motivational tools and clarity of data were going to be most important to him.
The Ultrahuman Ring Air sent him notifications when he was close to his daily goal, and he often found them motivational enough to do something extra. These came through at the end of the day, after work, but the movement alerts during the day were nothing but an annoyance. When he knew he was going to be active, he was always keen to see the data in the app afterward, showing the ring’s ability to motivate came mostly through data and well-timed notifications rather than regular interruptions.
However, the Ultrahuman Ring Air’s app didn’t always present the data well. “I’m not sure I understand much,” Matt said, commenting on the wide range of numbers and data points presented in the app. While he understood the numbers, obviously, it was the explanations of why he should care, what he could do to change them, and why he should bother that was the problem.
I lost interest quickly because the data wasn’t clear, and the advice was too obvious.
“It gets bogged down with too much information, which isn’t clearly explained,” he said. “It needs refining because it doesn’t clearly tell me why I should care about all the data.” This problem also affected sleep tracking. “I lost interest quickly because the data wasn’t clear, and the advice was too obvious, such as ‘turn the lights off,’ ‘be in a cool room,’ ‘don’t drink coffee too late,’ and ‘have a comfortable mattress.’ It is not that helpful.” Depth and understanding of the data Andy Boxall / Digital Trends The more we talked, the clearer it became that the Ultrahuman Ring Air’s app wasn’t very good at telling Matt what he wanted to know in a language and format he could understand. This mirrored my own experience with the smart ring , so it didn’t come as a shock. Matt also wanted to see a simple page with an overview of his performance and then dig deeper if he wanted. For example, he would have found information about the importance of raising his heart rate during a workout useful, along with an immediately obvious step count or daily goal target on an at-a-glance page. He had the idea this data was in the app somewhere but didn’t want to go on an expedition to find it.
Having to make an effort to find data that was helpful to him without questioning what it meant — heart rate variability (HRV) is a great example, as he needed to look elsewhere for guidance on whether it was important or not — is not motivational at all. Instead, it’s frustrating, and this is when fitness wearables are in danger of being abandoned. He also found the complexity of language used a barrier to being motivated by the Ring Air, and mentioned it did take quite a time to learn the app’s layout and functionality too.
It’s not a good position to be in. Granted, Matt would have done his own research prior to any purchase to make sure a device was suitable for his needs, but what he wants is pretty basic. He’s not crying out for more; he’s actually asking for less , which indicates the Ultrahuman Ring Air is too technically complex and has lost sight of providing simple, actionable information everyone needs and understands.
What about the ring itself? Ultrahuman Ring Air (left) and Oura Ring Andy Boxall / Digital Trends While the Ultrahuman Ring Air isn’t fully providing the motivation and data Matt may have wanted, he did tell me he’d miss wearing it mostly for those times when he is close to reaching his goal and needs a short burst of activity to make it. It’s impossible to know this without some form of tracker. But there’s one thing stopping him from fully committing to it long-term: comfort.
“I swap it around different fingers because it’s sharp,” he told me. Again, this is something I found when wearing the Ultrahuman Ring Air. He liked the color, though, and commented a lot of people had noticed the ring and reacted positively. He also liked the relative exclusivity of wearing a smart ring. He never found battery life to be an issue and simply put in the charger when he was in the shower. But the overall comfort level kept coming up as an issue.
I asked if he would have been pleased with the Ring Air if he had paid the $350 asking price. He said no and cited the poor comfort, complexity of the app, and lack of easily interpreted, quickly accessed basic data as reasons. I am pretty sure the Oura Ring would be a better choice for him, as it’s more comfortable, data is more accessible and better presented in the app, and it’s nowhere near as complicated as the Ultrahuman Ring Air tries to be. When I explained more, though, he was immediately put off by the Oura Ring’s monthly subscription fee.
The potential to change lives Andy Boxall / Digital Trends We are probably all guilty of buying something fitness-related in the hopes of it changing our lives and then finding it doesn’t. Whether it’s an exercise bike that’s now a clothes horse, a set of dumbbells hidden at the back of a cupboard, or a wearable fitness device, we learn the hard way our own motivation is equally as important if they’re going to work.
But Matt’s experience with the Ultrahuman Ring Air also shows that wearable device makers need to put more effort into tailoring the app experience to more people, making the data truly accessible and understandable, and providing simple customizations to help people get the most from it. There’s no reason he should have found the app so unfathomable when his requirements are so simple, and all the sensors are grabbing the data he wants to see anyway. It’s not like I gave him a highly focused device like the Garmin Epix Pro (Gen 2) and told him to train for a marathon.
There’s so much choice in the world of health and fitness wearables, and even though they all use similar sensors to collect essentially the same data, the presentation of it, the way it’s used, and the app you see every day is perhaps more important than the hardware if you’re hoping it’ll give you some personal motivation to get healthier.
What about the future for Normal Matt and the Ultrahuman Ring Air? I’ve not said anything about continuing to wear it for further research (he was aware I was going to write this story when we started out), so I have no idea if he’ll continue to wear it on his own or if it’ll get stuffed in a drawer and forgotten about. If it does, it won’t be the first time a health and fitness wearable has suffered this fate, and after chatting to him about it, it won’t be a surprise.
Editors' Recommendations I did something ridiculous to my Oura Ring I’ve worn two of the best smart rings. Here’s which one you should buy I should stop wearing the Oura Ring, but I can’t I love the Oura Ring, but I’m increasingly worried about its future Latest Oura partnership adds new meditations and a new way to buy the smart ring Features Wearables Mobile This is the Oura Ring Horizon, a new version of Oura's excellent smart ring, this time with a subtle design and a brand-new color to go with it.
The Horizon joins the existing Heritage design, which is characterized by the slightly flattened section that breaks up the simple ring shape, but does give it a more masculine appeal. The Horizon is far more simple, adopting an entirely unfussy, and very traditional circular shape instead.
Mobile There are plenty of wearables you can strap to various parts of your body to monitor activity and fitness, but the Happy Ring wants to be the first to prioritize monitoring your mood and stress levels.
The smart ring is the first product from Happy Health, a technology company founded by, among others, Dr. Dustin Freckleton and Sean Rad. Freckleton has already experimented with wearable tech, having been part of the troubled hydration monitoring LVL wearable project, while Rad is best known for founding the dating app Tinder.
Mobile Out of every piece of wearable technology I’ve ever owned or reviewed, the Oura Ring has been the one I have worn most consistently. In fact, I have almost a year’s worth of unbroken historical data logged in the app, and that’s more than I have for the Apple Watch, my other preferred piece of wearable tech.
While I have a year’s worth of data, six months of this has been with the most recent third-generation version of the ring, making it a good time to revisit why I’ve barely taken it off. However, while I love the Oura Ring now, I don’t know how much longer that will continue.
Part of me I’ve become entirely used to wearing the Oura Ring. When I first started using the second-generation model I hadn’t worn a ring for years due to not finding them very comfortable, and was slightly concerned the Oura wouldn’t last long. I was completely wrong. The third-generation ring shares the same design and dimensions, and with correct use of the sizing kit before you buy the ring itself, the fit is perfect.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
