Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Emerging Tech Features 5 futuristic smart cities to keep an eye on through the 2020s By Luke Dormehl Close In 1964, the British architect Ron Herron came up with his concept for a so-called “ Walking City.
” Herron imagined cities carried on the back of enormous, artificially intelligent mobile platforms resembling giant skyscrapers. These would, he suggested, have the ability to connect with other “walking metropolises” as and when required.
Woven City, Japan Belmont, Arizona Neom, Saudi Arabia Forest City, Malaysia Sidewalk Labs, Toronto Needless to say, the idea of these sci-fi future cities hasn’t exactly taken hold in the years since. But smart cities constructed around the latest cutting edge technology certainly has. While many cities are just content to retrofit new tech — whether it’s EV-charging roads , pollution-sucking artificial trees , or autonomous delivery robots — into existing infrastructures, others are taking a bolder approach.
Here are five of the top smart cities to keep an eye on as the 2020s progress. They’ll certainly (or, at least, most likely) be keeping an eye on you. Could one of these be your next home? It’s high time for the U.S. to build a high-speed rail network LA fire department to go electric with first battery-powered fire truck in U.S.
Welcome to the 2020s. Here’s the tech that will shape the next decade Woven City, Japan Toyota cars are found in just about every major city on the planet. But, at least as of now, the Japanese automaker doesn’t have its own city. That could change, however, thanks to an announcement at CES 2020 about an innovative new smart city the company is building in its home country. Ground will be broken on the so-called Woven City in 2021, Toyota CEO Akio Toyoda recently announced.
The 175-acre site at the base of Mount Fuji will serve as a “living laboratory.” Expect to find not just the latest autonomous cars and other automotive breakthroughs, but also connected sensor tech related to smart homes, robots, and A.I.
Woven City residents — of whom there will be around 2,000 initially — will even get their own in-house robot for monitoring health and taking care of certain basic tasks. It’s being designed by Danish architect Bjarke Ingels, whose résumé includes 2 World Trade Center and Denmark’s Lego House.
Belmont, Arizona Kevin Dooley Is it any wonder that the Microsoft co-founder who is dedicating his fortune to eradicating the world’s problems would be interested in building a city of the future to help solve them? That’s the idea behind Belmont, a proposed smart city in the Phoenix metropolitan area of Arizona, which counts none other than billionaire philanthropist Bill Gates as an investor — to the tune of around $80 million. Belmont will eventually host a population roughly the size of Salt Lake City, which has around 193,000 residents.
The site, which is currently 25,000 acres of unpopulated desert, will eventually become a bustling community with businesses, schools, and 80,000 homes. It will also offer the latest in high-tech amenities, being imagined from the ground up as a smart city. Expect driverless vehicles, autonomous delivery services, jobs in advanced manufacturing, high speed internet, and a total lack of non-Windows PCs. (Yeah, I made up that last one!) There’s no announcement yet on when construction will start.
Neom, Saudi Arabia Image used with permission by copyright holder How do you out-“city of the future” Bill Gates? You add robot maids, glow-in-the-dark beaches, man-made rain, a giant artificial moon, 100% renewable energy, robot dinosaurs, and a genetic engineering program to create stronger citizens, alongside the standard smart city promises of autonomous vehicles and better internet connectivity.
That’s the aim of Neom , a $500 billion city being developed in Saudi Arabia by Saudi Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman. Offering a mixture of high-tech amenities and luxury services, the Wall Street Journal describes its ambitions as bettering “Silicon Valley in technology, Hollywood in entertainment and the French Riviera as a place to vacation.” The in-development proposal sounds, frankly, like something out of a Michael Crichton techno-thriller. Especially when you hear that it will measure 10,230 square miles. That’s around 33 times the land area of New York City.
Forest City, Malaysia Forest City Development Project Forest City is a $100 billion development that proclaims itself the “Role Model of Future Cities.” It’s explicitly being designed as an eco-city, where buildings are covered in plants and the roads are pleasingly free from parked cars. Forest City will be built on four artificial islands in the Straits of Johor, the thin strip of water between Malaysia and Singapore. In total, these will offer up 14 square kilometers of reclaimed land.
Its marketing materials promise a “place of wonder” in which “crystal blue skies and the sounds of nature” take residents back to a time before the disappearance of, err, wonder. Don’t think that all of this means no smart tech, however. In fact, Forest City’s creators plan for self-watering gardens and tech that, should a “window [be] broken by local children kicking around a football, [it] will be fixed before you return home.” The current estimate calls for its completion in 2035. At that point, we can find out whether a city built on enormous artificial islands can be quite as eco-friendly as its creators suggest.
Sidewalk Labs, Toronto Sidewalk Labs Sidewalk Labs, Google parent company Alphabet’s urban innovation organization, is transforming a neighborhood on the Toronto waterfront into a smart city development.
 The 12-acre Quayside district will boast all-wooden buildings, modular paving for easy rearrangement, focus on sustainable energy, accessible ride-sharing vehicles, heated pavements, wayfinding beacons, and more. Despite the fact that, well, it’s Google behind it, it also promises that it won’t collect and sell a whole lot of personal information on users or carry out Minority Report -style personal advertising.
In a statement, Sidewalk Labs CEO Dan Doctoroff said that, “This proposal aims to do something extraordinary on Toronto’s eastern waterfront: create the neighborhood of the future in the right kind of way, with people at its center, and with cutting edge-technology and forward-thinking urban design combining to achieve ambitious improvements in the urban environment and in the way we all live.” Picture the world’s biggest Google campus, and you’ll probably have some idea of how this might turn out.
Editors' Recommendations Roving surveillance bots are coming to our cities. Luckily, they’re here to help Humanity’s media habits shifted radically in the 2010s. What do the 2020s hold? From pizza to transplant organs: What drones will be delivering in the 2020s FedEx’s autonomous delivery robot sent packing by New York City NASA confirms it’s heading to Europa in the 2020s to unlock its icy secrets Outdoors Emerging Tech Features Smart Cities Emerging Tech Want to live in a city featuring drone taxis, A.I. maids, glow-in-the-dark beaches, artificial rain, robot dinosaurs, and a genetic engineering program to create stronger citizens, all illuminated at night by a giant artificial moon? Sure, it sounds like a disaster waiting to happen straight out of a Michael Crichton techno-thriller, but it’s actually a real plan developed by Saudi Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman.
Called Neom (a mix of the Greek word for “new” and Arabic word for “future”), the project aims to construct a $500 billion smart city, covering 10,000 squares miles of coastline and desert in northwest Saudi Arabia. With its mixture of high-tech amenities and luxury services like restaurants and shops, the goal is to build what the Wall Street Journal describes as a superior to “Silicon Valley in technology, Hollywood in entertainment and the French Riviera as a place to vacation.” Hey, how many robot dinosaurs do you come into contact within any of those places? Emerging Tech "We need to give people transportation options," said Vi Lyles, the mayor of Charlotte, North Carolina.
That's why Charlotte is participating (along with Omaha and Detroit) in a new project: working with transportation logistics firm Passport and micromobility unicorn Lime to determine the best use of escooters in its city.
Outdoors Lyft has taken around 3,000 of its pedal-assist two-wheelers off the streets in New York City, Washington D.C., and San Francisco following complaints of an issue with the front-wheel brake. The app-based services are operated by Citi Bike, Capital Bikeshare, and Ford GoBike, respectively. All three are overseen by leading U.S. bikesharing business Motivate, which Lyft acquired for a reported $250 million in July 2018.
“We recently received a small number of reports from riders who experienced stronger than expected braking force on the front wheel,” Citi Bike said in a message on its website over the weekend. “Out of an abundance of caution, we are proactively removing the pedal-assist bikes from service for the time being. We know this is disappointing to the many people who love the current experience -- but reliability and safety come first.” Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
