Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending in Computing: Best Dell Laptops ChatGPT Best Monitors Asus ROG Azoth Review How to delete a page in Word in 3 easy steps RTX 4080 vs RTX 4070 Ti Best Mac Apps AMD vs Intel Recall an Email in Outlook Home Computing Products Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? The best handheld gaming PCs you can buy By Jacob Roach Close Ever since Valve's Steam Deck showed up, there has been a revolution in the world of handheld gaming PCs. Seemingly every company is looking to jump in on portable, high-performance gaming, but only a select few devices are among the best handheld gaming PCs you can buy.
This is definitely an evolving field, with new companies announcing devices left and right. Even this year, we still have devices like the Lenovo Legion Go to look forward to. For now, though, here are the top handheld gaming systems we've tested.
Save on everything from laptops and tablets, to coffee makers and air purifiers, and a whole host of Apple tech like iPad, Apple Watch and even the latest M3 MacBooks, as well as smart home essentials like the Amazon Echo and smart bulbs.
Jacob Roach / Digital Trends Steam Deck OLED The best handheld gaming PC Same great portable PC Significantly improved display Better battery Cooler, quieter fans Faster download speeds Linux still presents hurdles Specifications CPU 4 Zen 2 cores GPU 8 RDNA 2 cores RAM 16GB LPDDR5 Storage 512GB-1TB The Steam Deck is the best handheld gaming PC you can buy, regardless of if you pick up the original LCD model or the new OLED model. Between the two, however, the OLED Steam Deck definitely has the edge. It not only provides a nicer screen, better battery life, and higher performance, but it also comes in at the same price as the original model. Oh, and with more storage space in tow.
Valve took the Steam Deck OLED as a chance to refresh every aspect of the device. The OLED screen is gorgeous, of course, but the improvements elsewhere are more significant. Battery life is the best we've ever seen out of a handheld gaming PC, and although the performance can't match devices like the Lenovo Legion Go, the Steam Deck OLED is still faster than the original model.
Combined with improvements like Wi-Fi 6E and the same excellent software experience we've come to know on the base Steam Deck, the Steam Deck OLED absolutely trounces the competition. It's the best handheld gaming PC you can buy, no question.
Jacob Roach / Digital Trends Steam Deck The best cheap handheld gaming PC Tons of control flexibility Excellent specs Fantastic speakers Clean Steam interface Constantly improving Awkward design Poor screen Finnicky Linux browser Specifications CPU 4 Zen 2 cores GPU 8 RDNA 2 cores RAM 16GB LPDDR5 Storage 64GB-512GB Valve's Steam Deck kicked off a revolution in handheld gaming PCs, and although it's not the most powerful device you can buy, it's still the best. We recommend the OLED model more, but the LCD versions till provides similar performance and the best software experience out of any device we've tested.
The Steam Deck provides all of the little things you never think about on a device like the Nintendo Switch; full navigation with buttons and joysticks, automatic suspend when you hit the power button, and cloud saves that automatically sync your progress. It's plenty powerful, too. Although the Steam Deck is beaten by some other devices, Valve's Proton layer continues to squeeze as much performance as possible out of the hardware.
On top of a seamless handheld experience, the Steam Deck is highly flexible. You can just install Windows on the Steam Deck if you want, but there's a vibrant community of modders creating software for the platform, as well as third-party hardware to deck your Deck out (if you'll forgive the pun).
We have the Steam Deck OLED now, and we recommend most people pick that model up. If you're looking for a deal, however, Valve slashed the prices on the Steam Deck LCD.
Jacob Roach / Digital Trends Asus ROG Ally (Z1 Extreme) The best Windows handheld gaming PC Solid performance Acceptable battery life Beautiful, 120Hz screen Flexible control scheme Support for basically any PC game Turbo mode drains battery quickly Windows has a lot of quirks Armoury Crate is a utility, not an OS Specifications CPU AMD Ryzen Z1 Extreme GPU AMD Ryzen Z1 Extreme RAM 16GB LPDDR5 Storage 512GB If the Steam Deck just isn't cutting it for you in the power department, you'll want the Asus ROG Ally. Specifically, the model that comes with the Ryzen Z1 Extreme processor. It's leagues faster than the Steam Deck, and it comes with the added benefit of Windows 11.
With Windows 11 pre-installed, you have access to a far greater array of games. There are games like Destiny 2 that aren't supported on Steam Deck due to anti-cheat, but also titles available through non-Steam storefronts like the Epic Games Store and Ubisoft Connect.
The experience isn't as seamless as the Steam Deck, but Asus includes its Armoury Crate utility for quickly launching games without using the touch screen. It's a trade-off, but the ROG Ally has some upsides of its own, including a 1,080p display with a 120Hz refresh rate.
For as impressive as the ROG Ally with the Z1 Extreme is, it has some clear problems, as well. Performance isn't always stable depending on what game you're playing, and issues with the device-bricking microSD cards haven't been solved yet.
Jacob Roach / Digital Trends Ayaneo 2S The most powerful handheld gaming PC High-quality build Excellent screen Best in class performance Poor speakers Short battery life Sloppy custom tools Uncompetitive pricing Specifications CPU AMD Ryzen 7 7840U GPU AMD Radeon 780M RAM 16GB LPDDR5 Storage Up to 8TB There's no doubt that the Ayaneo 2S is the most powerful handheld gaming PC you can buy. It features AMD's Ryzen 7 7840U, which is basically the same as the Ryzen Z1 Extreme. Ayaneo just lets the chains off, allowing the APU to blaze through games as fast as possible.
It's fast, but there are a lot of trade-offs. For starters, the battery doesn't last very long, especially at the higher power modes. Ayaneo's utility that sits on top of Windows 11 isn't great, either. Most importantly, the handheld is way too expensive, with the base model clocking in at $1,000.
For enthusiasts, however, there's nothing better. You're not only getting better raw performance, but also more storage space with up to 2TB pre-configured and 8TB if you add your own, along dual USB-C ports and Hall Effect joysticks that won't drift over time. The Ayaneo 2S is expensive and has plenty of downsides, but for a select crowd, it'll be the perfect handheld gaming PC.
AYN AYN Odin The best handheld for emulation Inexpensive Lightweight and highly portable Full Android 10 Not powerful enough for PC games Navigating Android isn't perfect Specifications CPU Qualcomm Snapdragon 845 GPU Adreno 630 RAM 4GB LPDDR4x Storage 64GB You need the right balance of performance and price if you plan on emulating games. Devices like the Steam Deck can handle emulation excellently, but you're spending a lot for an experience you can find with a much cheaper device. That cheaper device is the AYN Odin.
It's a $250 Android handheld the feels purpose-built for emulation. A big reason why is the Android 10 operating system, giving you access to a wide array of emulators through the Google Play Store, as well as untrusted sources if you're feeling risky. You can play native Android games, as well, though the Odin really earns its stripes with emulation.
On top of great emulation support, the Odin comes with a 6-inch 1080p screen so games look sharp, as well as full access to Android. That means non-gaming apps are up for grabs here. It's not powerful enough or capable of running PC games like the Steam Deck, but if you want to dive into the deep world of emulation, the Odin offers something few other devices do.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Razer Edge 5G The best handheld for cloud gaming Powerful specs Truly portable design Beautiful display 5G is ideal for cloud Great emulation potential Loud fan Cramped design Pricey considering alternatives Specifications CPU Snapdragon G3X Gen 1 GPU Snapdragon G3X Gen 1 RAM 8GB LPDDR4x Storage 128GB The Razer Edge 5G is definitely a niche product, but there's nothing like it for cloud gaming. Logitech has its G Cloud handheld , but the Razer Edge stands out with its 5G support through the Verizon network. It solves one of the biggest issues in cloud gaming - consistent access to high-speed internet.
With Android at the helm, you have access to any cloud gaming app you could want, including Xbox Game Pass, Amazon Luna, and GeForce Now. It's full Android, too, so emulators and native Android games are on the table, as well.
The Razer Edge comes with a few unexpected upsides, as well. For starters, it has a 6.8-inch AMOLED display with a 144Hz refresh rate. In addition, it uses a detachable Razer Kishi V2 Pro controller, which you can take off and strap to your phone if you don't want to carry around two devices.
Jacob Roach / Digital Trends Asus ROG Ally (Z1) The best handheld gaming PC for Game Pass Light and comfortable to use Beautiful 1080p screen Weak battery life Worse performance than the Steam Deck Windows 11 is a hassle to use Specifications CPU AMD Ryzen Z1 GPU AMD Ryzen Z1 RAM 16GB LPDDR5 Storage 512GB If you're interested in the ROG Ally, you should buy the Z1 Extreme model. It's only $100 more than the base Z1 model, and it's nearly twice as fast in some games. However, the $600 ROG Ally with the Ryzen Z1 still has a place for some gamers.
It's a solid option if you want to access non-Steam Games, especially those available through Xbox Game Pass, and can't stretch your budget up to the Z1 Extreme model. You're getting performance that's slightly slower than the Steam Deck in most games, but also the same 512GB of storage as Valve's most expensive configuration.
Outside of game support, the upside here is the screen. It's a drain on the battery, but the 1,080p screen with a 120Hz refresh rate still look gorgeous on the ROG Ally with the Ryzen Z1, especially if you're playing less demanding games that can drive the full refresh rate.
Editors' Recommendations Best Buy Black Friday deals: 12 best offers you can shop now The best gaming PC Black Friday deals you can shop right now Don’t waste your money. These are the best GPUs to buy on a budget Best Alienware deals: Save on gaming laptops and PCs today Best gaming PC deals: Powerful gaming rigs from just $750 Gaming Best Products PC Gaming Computing Black Friday is just around the corner, but some retailers like Best Buy have already started rolling out early Black Friday deals. Here's one for gamers -- the Lenovo Legion Tower 5i gaming desktop for just $800, following a $450 discount on its original price of $1,250. We don't think this offer will last until the shopping holiday as stocks are probably already running low, so if you already have the cash, there's no sense in waiting to complete the purchase. Proceed with the transaction now to make sure that you enjoy the savings.
Why you should buy the Lenovo Legion Tower 5i gaming desktop With the 13th-generation Intel Core i5 processor, the Nvidia GeForce RTX 3060 graphics card, and 16GB of RAM, the Lenovo Legion Tower 5i gaming desktop won't have trouble running the best PC games. It may not be as powerful as the most expensive models of the best gaming PCs, and you may have to eventually upgrade within the next few years when the best upcoming PC games arrive, but as a machine that will let you jump into PC gaming right now, it will prove to be more then enough.
Computing If you want a powerful gaming PC that can handle the latest titles with ease, it's going to set you back -- they're expensive. That's unfortunate because PC gaming is incredible, with so many titles and genres to choose from, thanks to storefronts like Steam, Epic Games, and beyond. The good news is, with the right gaming PC deals, you can get a brand-new system or upgrade from an old one at incredible prices, much like the deal Walmart is offering right now on an RTX 3080 gaming PC. The ASUS ROG Strix GT15 gaming desktop, with an NVIDIA GeForce RTX 3080, 16GB of DDR4 RAM, and Intel Core i7, is just $1,300 right now, down from $1,899 -- for a total savings of $600. This system will run most games on high or above. Don't sleep on the deal, you'll regret it.
Why you should buy the ASUS ROG Strix GT15 gaming PC Before even taking a look inside, you should know this system is a stunner. The RGB is attractive and glowy but not too over the top that it makes you regret having a colorful PC. The case has a built-in handle on the top perfect for lugging it around to LAN parties with friends.
Computing If you're on the hunt for gaming laptop deals, here's one that comes with our recommendation -- the Asus ROG Zephyrus G14 for just $1,100 from Best Buy, for savings of $330 on its original price of $1,430. We expect this bargain to sell quickly because this is one of the top gaming laptops in the market right now, so if you're interested, there's no time to waste. Proceed with the purchase right now, because the more you delay, the higher the chances that you'll miss out on this discount.
Why you should buy the Asus ROG Zephyrus G14 gaming laptop The Asus ROG Zephyrus G14 is in our roundup of the best gaming laptops as the best portable gaming laptop that you can buy. It features a 14-inch screen that's slightly smaller than the display of most of its peers, but it more than makes up for the size with QHD resolution and a 165Hz refresh rate. This also allows the device to stay small, with thickness of just 0.73 of an inch and weight of only 3.64 pounds. If you want your gaming laptop with you at all times so you can squeeze in some gaming whenever the situation allows, the Asus ROG Zephyrus G14 will be perfect for you.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
