Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Phones Best Tablets Tesla Phone Download Android 14 Best Android Phones Home Mobile Guides Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? 5G coverage map: Where you can get 5G on Verizon, AT&T, T-Mobile By Christian de Looper Close Gone are the days when 5G was just a buzzword and deployment was experimental. Today, 5G is an established worldwide networking protocol built into most high-quality and flagship mobile devices. 5G stands for fifth-generation mobile technology, and it’s destined to replace 4G (and older protocols) worldwide with speeds up to 100 times faster. Not only is it faster, but it is also more responsive for overall coverage and reception. That means faster uploading and downloading of documents, images, and videos. For home use, it means replacing fiber-optic cable with fast wireless connections.
Verizon 5G network coverage AT&T 5G network coverage T-Mobile 5G network coverage 5G home internet There are two forms of 5G technology currently in use: Sub-6 relies on lower frequencies to deliver a much larger network , but the trade-off is that you’ll receive only marginally faster speeds than you would with 4G.
 While mmWave connections rely on much higher frequencies that deliver dramatically faster download speeds, those radio waves can’t physically travel long distances or make their way through obstacles like walls or even windows, which reduce signal strength.
As 5G spreads across the U.S., it’s only a matter of time before it arrives on your block or nearby. So if you have a 5G phone , where exactly is 5G available? Coverage varies by carrier, but we’re here to walk you through it.
Have an Android phone? You can get unlimited 5G service for free T-Mobile still has the fastest 5G, but its rivals are catching up T-Mobile’s huge lead in 5G speeds isn’t going anywhere To use 5G, you need a 5G-capable device and a mobile network that supports it. There are now plenty of 5G phones on the market, including the entire Apple iPhone 12 and iPhone 13 series, the Samsung Galaxy S21 and Galaxy S22 series, and many popular foldable phones.
 All the major wireless carriers in the U.S. are rolling out their 5G networks but, of course, there’s more to the 5G rollout than you’d think based on a visit to the carrier websites, and the top ten U.S. cities for 5G coverage may surprise you. They are relatively small cities that include Wichita, Minneapolis, Cincinnati, Little Rock, Indianapolis, Baton Rouge, Saint Louis, and others.
Here’s where you can find mobile 5G in the U.S., no matter which carrier you’re on.
Verizon 5G network coverage Leaflet | Map data © OpenStreetMap contributors, CC-BY-SA, Imagery © Mapbox Verizon offers both fixed and mobile 5G all over the U.S., though 5G reach for this carrier covers only 12.7% of the country. After years of focusing exclusively on mmWave (which it calls UWB, or Ultra Wide Band), and only covering a very small portion of the country, Verizon eventually turned on its nationwide 5G network using the Sub-6 spectrum. While it’s available in dramatically more places than mmWave, it’s still limited in scope across the country, and only available in densely populated areas. You can at least expect good speeds when you do get it, though.
Verizon’s 5G Ultra Wide Band began rolling out on April 3, 2019, and is now available in various places within 1,700 cities. Because of limits in range and managing obstacles, mmWave is inherently tougher to represent with a map online. So just because you see mmWave on a coverage map, walking 25 feet could take you out of range of the cell tower. The good news is that Verizon 5G works well where it’s available, with speeds above 2Gbps.
If you really care about mmWave coverage , Verizon’s mmWave network is the most widespread and available in dozens of cities already — although, again, you only will be able to establish a 5G connection in parts of those cities, meaning 5G access is still limited.
Verizon also offers 5G broadband internet, known as 5G Home Internet, in over 900 cities since October 1, 2018.
Verizon 5G coverage map AT&T 5G network coverage Leaflet | Map data © OpenStreetMap contributors, CC-BY-SA, Imagery © Mapbox AT&T has a widespread 5G network , with 29% nationwide coverage, but as you’d expect, the type of 5G connectivity that you get depends on where you live. AT&T is the only carrier with 5G in all 50 states, but its speeds are nothing to write home about.
AT&T’s wireless coverage largely depends on Sub-6 for its nationwide network. Depending on your city, its Sub-6 5G may actually be the same speed, or slower, than 4G because AT&T doesn’t have enough spectrum to deploy to both networks in tandem. In some cities, the company is offering mmWave (5G+, as AT&T calls it) with superfast speeds, but that type of 5G service is still limited to a few streets in a few major cities. It has a long way to go.
It’s important to note that AT&T really wants you to think you’re always on 5G. If you don’t have a 5G-compatible phone, you may still get a little icon saying that you’re on “5GE,” but that’s not really 5G at all — it’s just AT&T’s new marketing name for 4G. Only when you see “5G” or “5G+” in your status bar will you be taking advantage of real 5G service.
AT&T 5G coverage map T-Mobile 5G network coverage Leaflet | Map data © OpenStreetMap contributors, CC-BY-SA, Imagery © Mapbox T-Mobile was the first carrier to deploy a nationwide 5G network, however that network also relies largely on Sub-6 spectrum, so it’s not as fast as the mmWave networks that some expect when they hear the term “5G” or see carrier TV commercials. T-Mobile’s strategy focuses on building out Sub-6 5G to the exact same towers that currently carry 4G, so its network footprint is nearly the same for both. T-Mobile comes in first with 53.79% nationwide coverage. Its 5G signals reach more than 9,000 zip codes in over 3,000 cities, according to WhistleOut, the telecommunications analysis and research company.
T-Mobile has also launched mmWave in certain city centers following its merger with Sprint. Like all other carriers, T-Mobile will eventually utilize the mmWave spectrum in as many cities as possible as part of its multitiered network to address the needs of different population densities. Unlike other carriers, it doesn’t give you a different status bar icon when you’re on mmWave — your phone just seamlessly switches between mmWave and Sub-6, and you get the best possible speeds at the time.
One thing the 5G network hasn’t fixed is overall coverage. In dense areas, T-Mobile’s 5G network works well, but its overall coverage map still falls behind Verizon and AT&T. There are places in the country where T-Mobile and Sprint customers simply don’t get any coverage — though now T-Mobile can go toe-to-toe with Verizon and AT&T when it comes to 5G coverage.
5G home internet While 5G is mostly associated with phones and tablets, home internet is another arena where 5G has an increasing presence.
 Most internet service providers use cable, coaxial, or fiber-optic delivery systems, but 5G wireless internet works by beaming a signal directly to the home. This means you get the same mobile data as you would on a phone to use as a home network with a router. T-Mobile and Verizon both offer 5G home internet, though it is not yet up to speed in terms of availability, speed, and latency as compared with fiber or cable.
Editors' Recommendations This new MediaTek chip is about to bring 5G to a lot more devices The best phone plans for one person in 2023: our 6 favorites How fast is 5G? What you need to know about 5G speeds The 5G speed race is over and T-Mobile has won Netgear’s new M6 Pro router lets you use fast 5G anywhere you go 5G AT&T T-Mobile Verizon Mobile Verizon plans to expand its faster 5G Ultra Wideband network to reach beyond urban and suburban centers later this year, helping to drive up performance for folks in rural areas and spearhead the growth of its fixed wireless access (FWA) broadband services.
Verizon CEO Hans Vestburg touched on these details this week in the company’s quarterly earnings call, where he lauded the rapid expansion of the carrier’s C-band coverage to reach 200 million people in just over a year “since we lit up the first site.” Mobile T-Mobile has just unveiled a new set of plans and perks to help both new and current customers break free of lengthy device contracts while guaranteeing you'll be able to get the best deals available on phone upgrades every two years.
Significantly, with the new plans, the "Un-carrier" promises equal treatment for all customers, whether they're coming over from another carrier or have been using T-Mobile's services for years. That's in contrast to the limited-time offers of its rivals, which often ignore their most loyal subscribers in an effort to entice others to switch carriers.
Mobile Each time a new analysis of mobile network performance gets published, it’s almost a given that we’ll see T-Mobile leading the pack in terms of delivering the fastest 5G speeds. After all, the “Un-carrier” had a massive lead in deploying its 5G networks — and it hasn’t been resting on its laurels.
However, its competitors haven’t been sitting still either. While Verizon may have been starting from behind, it’s been aggressively deploying the faster 5G spectrum that gave it a nice leap in 5G performance last year. Still, Verizon and AT&T are lagging quite a bit in overall mobile network performance, and AT&T has fallen even farther behind when it comes to delivering the best 5G speeds across the nation.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
