Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Phones Best Tablets Tesla Phone Download Android 14 Best Android Phones Home Mobile News Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? 5G home internet: Carriers, coverage, and plans By Christian de Looper Close Carriers are fully in the swing of deploying their 5G networks , with AT&T , Verizon , and T-Mobile all having now rolled out nationwide networks using a combination of Sub-6 and mmWave spectrum.
 That’s good news for those who want to enjoy 5G on their smartphones — but it may have an impact on another internet connection, too: The home internet connection.
Verizon 5G home internet T-Mobile 5G home internet AT&T 5G home internet Along with massively supporting mobile 5G, carriers are also beginning to launch 5G home internet services, sometimes called fixed wireless.
 These services basically involve the use of a gateway, which connects to your carrier’s 5G network and turns that signal into Wi-Fi for your home devices.
Here’s everything you need to know about the 5G home internet plans currently on offer. You can also check out our guide to 5G phone plans if you’re interested.
Have an Android phone? You can get unlimited 5G service for free How fast is 5G? What you need to know about 5G speeds The 5G speed race is over and T-Mobile has won Verizon 5G home internet Image used with permission by copyright holder Verizon’s 5G home internet service is currently the most robust in the U.S. The company has been pushing a 5G Home Internet service of one flavor or another since late 2018, and while it’s available in only a few cities, if you’re eligible, it might be radically better than your current internet service.
Verizon’s 5G home internet service comes at $50 if you have a Verizon phone plan that costs $30 or more, or $70 if you don’t.
According to Verizon, customers should experience download speeds of 300Mbps, on average, but speeds will hopefully get much higher than that as Verizon continues to roll out and build on its 5G network. Of course, given that it’s an average, customers may also experience slower speeds.
Verizon offers some perks for those who sign up for its 5G home internet service, too. For example, customers will get a Verizon-built TV streaming box, which supports most major streaming platforms, for free. And Verizon will also throw in an Amazon Smart Home Bundle, which comes with a range of smart home devices, including an Amazon Echo Show 5.
Verizon’s 5G Home Internet service is not available nationwide. Instead, it’s available in some select cities because the service runs on Verizon’s mmWave network, which enables its incredible speeds. Here’s a list of those cities: Phoenix, Arizona Los Angeles, California Orange County, California Sacramento, California San Francisco, California San Jose, California Denver, Colorado Miami, Florida Atlanta, Georgia Chicago, Illinois Indianapolis, Indiana Detroit, Michigan Minneapolis, Minnesota St. Paul, Minnesota St. Louis, Missouri Arlington, Texas Dallas, Texas Houston, Texas Cleveland, Ohio (starting March 18) Las Vegas, Nevada (starting March 18) Louisville, Kentucky (starting March 18) Omaha, Nebraska (starting March 18) San Diego, California (starting March 18) Charlotte, North Carolina (starting March 25) Cincinnati, Ohio (starting March 25) Hartford, Connecticut (starting March 25) Kansas City, Missouri (starting March 25) Salt Lake City, Utah (starting March 25) You can check your address straight from Verizon’s website to see if you’re eligible. Because it’s running on mmWave, expect service only in very dense areas of cities.
Verizon 5G Home Internet: Everything you need to know T-Mobile 5G home internet Image used with permission by copyright holder After a months-long pilot program, T-Mobile’s 5G home internet service is now official. The service is available to 30 million households at launch, with 10 million of those being rural households. T-Mobile’s service can leverage both 4G LTE and 5G, and as such the carrier notes that most customers will get speeds of up to 100Mbps, or average speeds of 50Mbps. Those in areas with 5G service, however, may get much faster speeds than that.
You can check whether you’re eligible at T-Mobile’s website.
 Because T-Mobile is using both 4G and Sub-6 5G, its availability is going to be dramatically wider than Verizon’s, though it may take some time for T-Mobile to roll the service out to everyone with coverage of its network.
T-Mobile’s 5G home internet service comes at $60 per month with autopay and includes the use of T-Mobile’s Gateway, which supports Wi-Fi 6 and connects to a phone app, where you can manage your network.
We’re expecting T-Mobile to radically expand its 5G home internet service as the company continues to roll out its 5G network.
T-Mobile 5G Home Internet: Everything you need to know AT&T 5G home internet Image used with permission by copyright holder Last but not least is AT&T, which has yet to roll out a 5G home internet service. It’s very likely the carrier will start to deploy a home internet service that relies on 5G soon, but we don’t know when or what that service will look like.
It’s likely that AT&T will launch the offering first for business or very specific rural customers, before rolling it out to the general public.
AT&T 5G Home Internet: Everything you need to know Editors' Recommendations This new MediaTek chip is about to bring 5G to a lot more devices T-Mobile still has the fastest 5G, but its rivals are catching up T-Mobile’s huge lead in 5G speeds isn’t going anywhere Your Verizon plan just got a major overhaul — here’s what’s new Netgear’s new M6 Pro router lets you use fast 5G anywhere you go News 5G Tech News Mobile The budget smartphone market is a bustling space right now, with great phones from Nokia and Samsung making big waves. Motorola is the unofficial king of the budget smartphone, but its throne is looking quite shaky right now. That might be why it's decided to remix some classics this year, releasing new versions of the Moto G 5G and Moto G Stylus.
While there are definitely some improvements in the 2023 versions of both phones, Motorola has also made some cutbacks for both, making these new versions remixes of past classics rather than pure upgrades. Here's everything you need to know about the Motorola Moto G 5G (2023) and Moto G Stylus (2023).
Moto G 5G (2023) Mobile Verizon plans to expand its faster 5G Ultra Wideband network to reach beyond urban and suburban centers later this year, helping to drive up performance for folks in rural areas and spearhead the growth of its fixed wireless access (FWA) broadband services.
Verizon CEO Hans Vestburg touched on these details this week in the company’s quarterly earnings call, where he lauded the rapid expansion of the carrier’s C-band coverage to reach 200 million people in just over a year “since we lit up the first site.” Mobile T-Mobile has just unveiled a new set of plans and perks to help both new and current customers break free of lengthy device contracts while guaranteeing you'll be able to get the best deals available on phone upgrades every two years.
Significantly, with the new plans, the "Un-carrier" promises equal treatment for all customers, whether they're coming over from another carrier or have been using T-Mobile's services for years. That's in contrast to the limited-time offers of its rivals, which often ignore their most loyal subscribers in an effort to entice others to switch carriers.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
