Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Phones Best Tablets Tesla Phone Download Android 14 Best Android Phones Home Mobile Guides Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? 5G Nationwide vs. 5G Ultra Wideband: What’s different (and why you should care) By Jesse Hollington Close The rollout of 5G networks across the U.S. has been a bit more complicated than prior cellular technologies. While this is primarily due to a broader range of frequencies used by 5G networks , cellular carriers have added to the confusion by treating us to a complicated array of terms like 5G Plus, 5G Nationwide, 5G Ultra Wideband, 5G Ultra Capacity, and 5G Extended Range.
Verizon’s original 5G network Verizon goes “Nationwide” with 5G The challenges of low-band 5G C-band to the rescue The competitive 5G landscape The state of 5G Nationwide and 5G Ultra Wideband in 2022 With so many different terms, it can be hard to figure out what it all means — especially when the carriers have unique names for similar types of 5G services. Nowhere has this been more apparent recently than with Verizon, which has rolled out its 5G services somewhat differently from the rest. The carrier has now settled on two broad terms to describe its 5G coverage: 5G Nationwide and 5G Ultra Wideband.
 But what exactly do these mean, and how did we get here? SOPA Images / Getty Image Verizon’s original 5G network When Verizon began rolling out its 5G service, it took the unique approach of focusing exclusively on the extremely high frequency (EHF) millimeter wave (mmWave) band.
 The frequencies in this band live well above anything typically used by cellular and Wi-Fi networks; that’s up in the 28GHz range for Verizon’s 5G network.
Using mmWave, Verizon could boast insanely fast speeds on its network, easily hitting 1Gbps and peaking at 4Gbps under ideal conditions. In early 2020, Verizon was the fastest 5G carrier on the planet, with an OpenSignal report showing average 5G download speeds of 506Mbps — double that of the second place contender, South Korea’s LG U+. Today, this level of Verizon’s 5G coverage is what’s known as 5G Ultra Wideband.
OpenSignal The only problem is that while mmWave may be fast, it also has an extremely short range — a single mmWave transceiver can only cover an area about the size of a city block. As a result, Verizon’s 5G service was only available to around 1% of its customers : those who lived or worked in major urban centers like downtown Chicago. Verizon customers in the rest of the U.S. never saw the 5G symbol appear in their phone’s status bar.
Have an Android phone? You can get unlimited 5G service for free How fast is 5G? What you need to know about 5G speeds The 5G speed race is over and T-Mobile has won Verizon goes “Nationwide” with 5G This limited range was a problem for Verizon, particularly since its rivals weren’t standing still. By the summer of 2020, T-Mobile was boasting 5G coverage in all 50 U.S. states — including Alaska — and AT&T wasn’t far behind. These networks may have been slower than Verizon’s ultrafast mmWave service , but at least customers on those carriers got to see the coveted 5G icon light up on their phones.
Verizon had to do something to catch up; the answer was its 5G Nationwide network. In the fall of 2020, the carrier made a pretty big splash when Verizon CEO Hans Vestberg took the stage during Apple’s launch of the iPhone 12 to announce that its 5G Nationwide network would bring 5G to the other 99% of its customers.
Apple Of course, Vestberg didn’t put it quite that bluntly. Instead, he suggested that “5G just got real” thanks to the broader coverage. The new 5G Nationwide network promised coverage for 200 million more people across more than 1,800 towns and cities.
Before that, Verizon’s 5G network didn’t have a unique name; it was just Verizon’s 5G service. Once the carrier switched on its 5G Nationwide service, it became necessary to differentiate it from the much faster mmWave service. So, the 5G Ultra Wideband service was born, along with a new “5G UW” (or “5G UWB”) icon so customers would know when they were on the carrier’s fastest network.
Verizon The trick to getting 5G coverage expanded across the nation was that Verizon had to drop down to an entirely different set of frequencies. With the limited range of high-band mmWave spectrum, Verizon’s 5G Ultra Wideband network would have required hundreds of thousands of transceivers to offer the same coverage. According to a 2017 Qualcomm research paper , providing a square kilometer of reliable mmWave 5G coverage in a densely populated city requires approximately 130 mmWave transceivers. Based on those numbers, covering only 95% of New York City would require nearly 60,000 individual mmWave towers.
The challenges of low-band 5G Since mmWave wasn’t going to cut it for a national expansion, Verizon had to take a different approach. With few other options available, the carrier had to use the same low-band frequencies occupied by its existing 4G/LTE service. Putting 5G signals down at 850MHz allowed Verizon to provide expansive 5G coverage — at the cost of true 5G performance.
The first problem is that low-band frequencies are already the slowest out there. That’s just how the laws of physics work. However, Verizon faced another challenge. 4G/LTE signals were already traveling on those airwaves, meaning Verizon’s new 5G Nationwide service had to share the road with a significant amount of slower traffic.
Mavenir Fortunately, a technology known as Dynamic Spectrum Sharing (DSS) was created as part of the 5G specification to make this possible. Unfortunately, DSS makes 5G traffic a second-class citizen on the 4G/LTE airwaves. Since 4G/LTE has no equivalent feature, it doesn’t know how to share, so 5G traffic gets inserted into the leftover spaces between 4G signals.
If you’ve ever wondered why your 5G smartphone never seemed to perform much better than your old 4G/LTE one, this is the reason. That was especially true for Verizon customers since, until recently, they were much more likely to be using the carrier’s 5G Nationwide network than its 5G Ultra Wideband service.
Thanks to DSS, performance on Verizon’s early 5G Nationwide network was so bad that PCMag’s Sascha Segan told iPhone users on Verizon to shut 5G off entirely after several tests revealed that it was slower than 4G in major cities like New York and Chicago.
C-band to the rescue While Verizon has been working on improving performance on its low-band 5G Nationwide network, there’s only so much it can do. The nature of DSS means that as long as most customers still have 4G/LTE devices, 5G signals will have to settle for second place on those frequencies. Things will improve organically as more folks move to 5G devices, but that won’t happen overnight.
Thankfully, a much more significant improvement came to Verizon’s 5G network earlier this year when the carrier deployed a swath of midrange C-band spectrum.
 Nestled in the 3.7 to 3.98GHz range, these frequencies are not only free of domineering 4G/LTE traffic, but they offer better performance than the low-band 850MHz frequencies and considerably better range than the 28GHz mmWave spectrum.
Dish Wireless This spectrum has effectively become the sweet spot for 5G rollouts, and it’s not hard to see why Verizon dropped a record-setting $45 billion in a Federal Communications Commission (FCC) auction to acquire it last year.
Following a kerfuffle with the aviation industry , the carrier turned the switch on the new spectrum in January. The result was remarkable performance improvements for many of its customers.
Verizon incorporated the new C-band spectrum into its 5G Ultra Wideband network , so it’s not technically an improvement to its 5G Nationwide service. However, the expansion means you’re less likely to find yourself on the slower nationwide service unless you’re taking a road trip or live in a rural area.
The competitive 5G landscape Verizon isn’t alone in segregating its 5G networks, but it is the most aggressive of the bunch when it comes to promoting the differences between its 5G Nationwide and 5G Ultra Wideband. This is likely because Verizon is also unique in charging extra for its fastest 5G service. Unless you’re on one of the carrier’s premium 5G Do More, Play More, or Get More plans, you’ll be limited to low-band 5G Nationwide service even if you’re standing right next to a mmWave transceiver in downtown Chicago and could technically use 5G Ultra Wideband.
AT&T and T-Mobile also have their own names for their different levels of 5G service. AT&T simply calls its standard network “5G” and uses the name 5G Plus (5G+) for its mmWave network. AT&T’s 5G is a low-band service similar to Verizon’s 5G Nationwide, with many of the same challenges. 5G Plus is a similar combination of mmWave and C-band as Verizon’s 5G Ultra Wideband service, although AT&T has limited mmWave to dense areas like stadiums and airports, and it’s only rolled out C-band in about eight cities.
AT&T also has a “5GE” network, but that’s nothing more than a marketing stunt where the carrier tried to convince customers that its Advanced 4G/LTE network was actually an “evolution” to 5G.
5GE is not 5G at all ; it’s just a misleading icon for AT&T’s best 4G/LTE service.
Adam Doud/Digital Trends T-Mobile has taken an entirely different approach to its 5G rollouts. While the Un-carrier does have some mmWave spectrum, it doesn’t talk much about that since it’s mostly there to supplement the rest of its network, improving service in dense areas like stadiums that need extra capacity. Instead, T-Mobile began its 5G rollouts, focusing on broad coverage through a low-band “standalone” 5G network using a 600MHz spectrum. While these low frequencies were the slowest of them all, they were free of 4G/LTE traffic. This means T-Mobile’s low-band 5G network didn’t need to rely on DSS. This is what the carrier now calls its 5G Extended Range network.
T-Mobile had another ace up its sleeve. Through its merger with Sprint , T-Mobile acquired licenses for a sizeable chunk of the 2.5GHz spectrum. Sprint had been using this for its 4G/LTE network, but T-Mobile quickly decommissioned those towers to free it up for 5G, giving it a considerable head start on its rivals. This became T-Mobile’s 5G Ultra Capacity network. As a mid-band network, it’s roughly equivalent to Verizon’s 5G Ultra Wideband and AT&T’s 5G Plus.
The state of 5G Nationwide and 5G Ultra Wideband in 2022 While Verizon is far better off than it was at the end of 2021, the carrier has its work cut out if it wants to catch up with T-Mobile. A July 2022 market report from Ookla shows T-Mobile still holds a commanding lead in 5G performance and reliability, taking first place in 45 states and coming in with nearly double the median download speeds across the board.
Since these tests measure median download speeds across all carrier service levels, they mostly show how much the low-band networks are holding 5G back. Verizon’s 5G Ultra Wideband network has proven itself to be quite capable, but sadly too many of its customers remain on the much slower 5G Nationwide network — either because they’re not covered by 5G Ultra Wideband yet or they’re unwilling to pay more for a premium plan. That’s not a problem T-Mobile customers face since even the entry-level 5G plans include access to the carrier’s faster and more expansive 5G Ultra Capacity network.
Editors' Recommendations This new MediaTek chip is about to bring 5G to a lot more devices T-Mobile still has the fastest 5G, but its rivals are catching up T-Mobile’s huge lead in 5G speeds isn’t going anywhere Netgear’s new M6 Pro router lets you use fast 5G anywhere you go Live in a rural area? Verizon 5G is about to get better for you 5G Cellular Carriers Verizon Mobile Each time a new analysis of mobile network performance gets published, it’s almost a given that we’ll see T-Mobile leading the pack in terms of delivering the fastest 5G speeds. After all, the “Un-carrier” had a massive lead in deploying its 5G networks — and it hasn’t been resting on its laurels.
However, its competitors haven’t been sitting still either. While Verizon may have been starting from behind, it’s been aggressively deploying the faster 5G spectrum that gave it a nice leap in 5G performance last year. Still, Verizon and AT&T are lagging quite a bit in overall mobile network performance, and AT&T has fallen even farther behind when it comes to delivering the best 5G speeds across the nation.
Mobile If you’ve been on the fence about picking up one of the latest Galaxy S23 phones, some new research from Ookla may help tip the scales in Samsung’s favor.
In a new speed test report, Ookla tcompared the 5G performance specs of the Galaxy S23 models to last year’s Galaxy S22 in several countries — with some surprising results across the board.
A worthwhile 5G upgrade Mobile You've probably noticed that there's been much more hype around 5G than for any of the wireless technologies that came before. Some of that is just marketing, of course; we are living in an increasingly connected era, and there are far more people toting smartphones now than there were in 2012 when 4G/LTE was just beginning to go mainstream. However, it's also not an exaggeration to say that with considerably faster speeds and the ability to handle many more devices, 5G is a much bigger step into the next stage of global connectivity. You've also probably noticed it yourself with a "5G UW" icon at the top of your phone.
As with most new technologies, 5G comes with some new challenges for both carriers and consumers. One of the most significant of these has been working out the best way to deploy 5G services across the much wider range of frequencies that it's capable of operating on. This wasn't nearly as significant a problem in the days of 3G and 4G/LTE services, which all operated in a much narrower range of radio spectrum.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
