Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Way to Hire Employees Highest Paying Jobs Best Business Laptops What is RingCentral? Best VPN Best Job Search Sites Home Mobile Products 5G vs. 4G: How does the newest network improve on the last? By Mark Jansen and Paula Beaton Close The fifth generation of mobile networking is here and getting more prominent by the day. Alongside the continuation and increasing popularity of pandemic-fueled remote working in 2022, 5G network coverage has expanded, accelerating its rollout throughout the U.S. and the world. All three major service providers now have nationwide networks, with plans to improve 5G offerings both in the home and via mobile in the next few years.
5G vs. 4G: Speed 5G vs. 4G: Latency 5G vs. 4G: Coverage 5G vs. 4G: Other differences 5G vs. 4G: Don’t write off 4G yet Already, 5G is changing the way we view and use technology. As it moves on it way to future ubiquity, it’s time to learn about the current advantages of 5G, how it will coexist with 4G, and determine how to get the most out of it.
5G vs. 4G: Speed In considering 5G speed , there are few specifics to pin down. Instead, we prefer to think of 5G in its early stages as offering more of a speed range. That’s because the actual speeds you get depend on what wireless network you’re connecting to, your location and how busy it is, and the device you’re using. This table gives you a rough idea of the maximum speeds of each generation of cellular network technology and the average speeds in the real world.
Have an Android phone? You can get unlimited 5G service for free How fast is 5G? What you need to know about 5G speeds Samsung Galaxy Z Fold 5 vs. Galaxy Z Fold 4: worth the upgrade? Generation 2G 3G 3G HSPA+ 4G 4G LTE-A 5G Max speed 0.3Mbps 7.2Mbps 42Mbps 150Mbps 300Mbps-1Gbps 1-10Gbps Average speed 0.1Mbps 1.5Mbps 5Mbps 10Mbps 15Mbps-50Mbps 50Mbps and up The average speed row is more realistic than the max speed row, as the peak or max speed is purely theoretical. Determining real speed is complicated by the various technologies used in each generation, geographical differences in coverage, and the constant evolution and improvement of mobile technology over time. For example, 4G has improved significantly over its lifetime with the development of LTE (Long-Term Evolution) and then LTE-A (Long-Term Evolution Advanced). You can theoretically get up to 1Gbps with the latest 4G LTE-A developments, which overlaps the range that 5G promises to deliver. The average speeds you get in the real world are much lower.
To put that speed into some kind of context, 1Gbps (gigabits per second) is 1,000Mbps (megabits per second). Note that megabits differ from megabytes — there are 8 megabits (Mb) in a megabyte (MB). So, 1Gbps translates to 125MB per second. An MP3 file might be 5MB, while a TV program episode might be 350MB, and a Blu-ray movie could be 15GB (15,000MB). If you actually have a 1Gbps connection, you could potentially download a Full HD Blu-ray-quality movie in two minutes. With 4G still improving, you can achieve somewhere between 10Mbps and 50Mbps. If we look at Netflix requirements for streaming speeds, it recommends 15Mbps for Ultra HD and 5Mbps for HD.
According to the latest 2022 numbers from Opensignal, T-Mobile has hit 150 Mbps for average 5G download speed, putting it ahead of Verizon and AT&T, which scored 56.2 Mbps and 49.1 Mbps, respectively. Faster speeds are the goal, though 4G speeds are already pretty good for what most people need.
5G vs. 4G: Latency Where 4G lags behind is latency, which is the time it takes for data from your device to be uploaded and reach its target. It measures the time it takes for data to go from source to destination in milliseconds (ms). It’s very important for applications like gaming, where response time impacts the outcome. It could also prove vital for self-driving cars if data is being transmitted to the cloud, as quick decisions based on instant information can help to avoid an accident.
With existing 4G networks, you’re looking at an average latency of around 50ms. That could drop to 1ms with 5G technology. To put that in context, it takes at least 10ms for an image seen by the human eye to be processed by the brain. Low latency is vital for real-time reactions in machines or cars. Lower latency could also make cloud gaming possible. Gamers could play via their phones on remote hardware like gaming platform services such as Google’s Stadia and Blade’s Shadow.
 A 1ms latency is aspiration, possible in near-perfect scenarios. The average latency you can actually expect on 5G is around 10ms. Reduced latency could prove to be the real driver for 5G deployment and adoption.
5G vs. 4G: Coverage Verizon 5G node Julian Chokkattu/Digital Trends It took years for 4G networks to fan out around the world, and even now there are some rural areas still relying on 3G networks. Even where 4G coverage is strong, speeds vary widely. We expect the full rollout of 5G networks to take a while, but right now all three major carriers have advanced their 5G coverage. All three major carriers now offer nationwide networks , based on the Sub-6 spectrum, and are building out those networks with other spectrum and wide coverage.
Also, 5G is built with a full array of different radio frequencies. Sub-6 refers to frequencies under 6GHz, and these waves can generally travel long distances but can’t support ultra-high download speeds. On the other end of the 5G spectrum is mmWave , which offers a huge advantage in terms of download speed, but can’t travel far or penetrate obstacles. Initially, Verizon employed mmWave for its 5G network, and it was only available in some areas of some cities. Today, the company uses Sub-6 for its nationwide mobile network, which is something T-Mobile did from the beginning.
5G vs. 4G: Other differences Julian Chokkattu/Digital Trends For us to take advantage of 5G connectivity, we don’t just need carriers to put network equipment in place. We also need to buy a 5G device. If you’ve picked up one of the best 5G handsets , you may be able to leverage 5G speeds, depending on where you live. But if your mobile phone is older, you’ll need to upgrade if you want the faster speeds. These days, almost all high-quality new phones sold in 2020 or later support 5G — like the iPhone 13 or Samsung Galaxy S22 Ultra — alongside many midrange affordable phones.
Note that 5G is likely to be much more demanding in terms of power, so battery life, which is already an issue for many, could get worse as users embrace 5G over 4G.
5G vs. 4G: Don’t write off 4G yet It’s important to note that 5G is not a direct replacement for 4G — it’s a complementary technology. With the two working in tandem, you should get good — or at least decent — speeds on your mobile device wherever you are. Carriers continue to upgrade 4G networks, and both download speeds and latency are still improving. Even though carriers are spending more time and resources on 5G wireless technology, 4G networks will likely continue to provide faster speeds across the board.
That’s especially true given the complete demise of 3G in the U.S. Sprint 3G (now part of T-Mobile) was shut down on January 1, 2022. AT&T’s 3G network was shut down in February 2022. Verizon plans to shut down its 3G network on December 31, 2022. T-Mobile has yet to announce its final 3G day, but it’s coming.
Editors' Recommendations This new MediaTek chip is about to bring 5G to a lot more devices T-Mobile still has the fastest 5G, but its rivals are catching up Samsung Galaxy Z Flip 5 vs. Galaxy Z Flip 4: should you upgrade? T-Mobile’s huge lead in 5G speeds isn’t going anywhere The 5G speed race is over and T-Mobile has won Business 5G Cellular Carriers Versus Mobile When it comes to Android, Samsung phones offer some of the best and most cohesive experiences, with well-designed devices that push the boundaries of style. If you don't care about all of that and just want a reliable, well-designed phone, well Samsung has you covered there too. Some of the best phone deals, in general, include Samsung handsets, like the Galaxy S23, S22, and Z Fold series. But if you're looking for a solid mix of just Samsung gear, you'll need a better guide, and this is that guide. We've put together all of the best Samsung phone deals, scouring the interwebs for the absolute best of the best offers. If you're ready to upgrade your phone or need to replace a broken one, you've come to the right place.
Samsung Galaxy A53 5G -- $349, was $450 If you're not into premium flagships, which is to say top-of-the-line phones, then this little stunner will serve you well. It features a 6.4-inch full-HD Super AMOLED display with beautiful color and clarity and a nearly edge-less design. But it's also powerful with 128GB of storage, expandable up to 1TB total, thanks to the MicroSD slot. It has an Exynos 1280 processor, 6GB of RAM, and delivers 5G wireless speeds. Plus, it has a long-lasting battery that will get you through your entire day and then some under regular use. Did we mention the intelligent camera that combines an ultra-wide 12MP, 64MP standard, and 5MP depth cameras for excellent shots out in the field? Oh, and right now, it's available at an incredible price.
Mobile Qualcomm is upping the performance game with its new Snapdragon 4 Gen 2 mobile platform — a new chip that promises to deliver some of the best capabilities of the company’s higher-end platforms to a new generation of budget smartphones.
As one might expect, the Snapdragon 4 Gen 2 is the direct successor to last year’s Snapdragon 4 Gen 1, the first in the series to move to simpler branding when it replaced the 2021 Snapdragon 480+. Last year’s chip brought the usual year-over-year CPU and graphics performance gains while introducing a new image signal processor (ISP) that pushed its photographic capabilities to new heights.
What the Snapdragon 4 Gen 2 brings to the table Mobile Nearly every model of Fitbit is on sale at Best Buy this weekend. If you've been thinking about getting a smartwatch for exercise, and you've kept Fitbit deals in mind, this is your chance. We've pulled the best deals from this mini-sale below. They start at $80 -- check them out! Fitbit Inspire 3 -- $80, was $100 The Fitbit Inspire 3 is a great fitness tracker for most people. One huge selling point is that it has a 10-day battery life so you don't have to worry about charging it very often. At all times, it's monitoring your movements throughout the day, tracking steps, calories burned, and more. It can watch for changes in your resting heart rate, blood oxygen levels, and skin temperature to see how your body is performing. It also dishes out a daily readiness score based on your stress levels, sleep and activity, with a stress management score also offered so you can instantly see if you need to be kinder to yourself. Extensive sleep profiling features along with irregular heart rhythm notifications and high/low heart rate notifications all ensure this little wearable is looking out for you.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
