Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Way to Hire Employees Highest Paying Jobs Best Business Laptops What is RingCentral? Best VPN Best Job Search Sites Home Mobile News What is 5G E? Explaining AT&T’s misleading network on smartphones Sprint calls out AT&T's 5G E in full-page New York Times ad By Jeremy Kaplan and Christian de Looper Close The 5G E indicator in the top-right corner of this image depicts an advanced 4G LTE network. But is that 5G? AT&T When is 4G not 4G? When it’s 5G, of course.
AT&T is rebranding potentially millions of 4G LTE smartphones to make it appear as though they are on 5G networks — explaining that many technologies deeply linked to the faster 5G networks all mobile carriers are beginning to roll out have already been introduced on the company’s existing 4G network. Phones “using” the 5G E network include the Samsung Galaxy A8 Active , LG V30 , and LG V40.
 AT&T has even brought Apple on board : iPhones that are on AT&T and updated to iOS 12.1.2 will get the new 5G E logo when they are connected to AT&T’s so-called 5G Evolution network. So far, the logo is only showing up in the iOS 12.1.2 beta, but it will likely roll out as part of the iOS 12.1.2 update when it’s ready for consumers.
Sprint, in particular, has taken issue with the branding. A few weeks after announcing that it was suing AT&T, it has taken a full-page ad out in The New York Times, calling AT&T out and labeling AT&T’s 5G E as “fake 5G.” “While Sprint is working hard to deliver mobile 5G and the first 5G smartphone in the U.S., AT&T is hard at work trying to convince you that they already won the race to 5G with something they call ‘5G Evolution.’ That is simply untrue,” reads the letter.
 “Don’t be fooled. 5G Evolution isn’t new or true 5G. It is fake 5G.
Have an Android phone? You can get unlimited 5G service for free How fast is 5G? What you need to know about 5G speeds The 5G speed race is over and T-Mobile has won “They would love for you to believe they are different … better. The truth is AT&T is simply offering customers a nationwide 4G LTE network just like Sprint and all the other major wireless carriers. It’s not 5G.” In early February, Sprint said it was suing AT&T, arguing that this implementation of fake 5G will damage Sprint’s efforts to release and promote true 5G. As part of its claim, Sprint is using a survey that asked consumers whether they believed “5G E” was as good as 5G, and whether they thought an AT&T phone bought today would be 5G capable. Fifty-four percent of responses believed 5G E was at least as good as 5G, while 43 percent believed AT&T phones bought today would be 5G capable — which simply isn’t the case.
Sprint argues that this move by AT&T will damage 5G’s reputation before real 5G gets out of the gate; similar moves to rebrand enhanced 3G services as “4G” in 2012 faced legal challenges as well. We’ll have to wait and see whether Sprint’s efforts fare any better than previous attempts.
“AT&T is deliberately deceiving consumers into believing that their existing 4G LTE network operates on a coveted and highly anticipated 5G network. The reality is that this network isn’t ‘new’ and ‘5G E’ is a false and misleading term,” a Sprint spokesperson told Digital Trends. “AT&T is just like Sprint and all the other major wireless carriers currently operating a nationwide 4G LTE network. AT&T’s deceptive ads have harmed consumers by persuading them to purchase or continue purchasing AT&T’s services based on the lie that they are offering 5G.” This hasn’t been the only backlash against the move from AT&T, and many more argue AT&T’s move misleads users they’re using the latest and greatest tech when really they’re not. When asked about this, Igal Elbaz, AT&T senior vice president for wireless technology, defended its practices, arguing that, “What we’re trying to do is let [customers] know that there is an enhanced experience in their market.” “We’ve been talking about 5G Evolution for a while now,” Elbaz said in an interview with Tom’s Guide.
 “We were pretty public about what we were doing and what we were deploying. All of our investment in the infrastructure and hardware is all 5G ready, so the moment the 5G software and the 5G devices show up, it’s a software upgrade to our network to enable our customers to move to 5G.” 5G networks promise blazing speeds and nearly nonexistent latency, leading to not just faster download speeds but improvements to a wide range of applications outside of simply mobile phones. Carriers are actively introducing “ fixed wireless ” options to let consumers use mobile networks in their houses, for example, providing a much-needed alternative to cable and DSL. The networks could also have applications ranging from self-driving cars to virtual reality to smart homes — if some serious technology hurdles can be avoided.
Meanwhile, 4G LTE, short for Long-Term Evolution, continues to … well, evolve. Gigabit LTE is an ongoing effort to improve the existing 4G networks , as a way to bridge 4G and 5G. It offers some of the benefits of 5G and relies on advanced technologies to get there, things like carrier aggregation, which uses multiple frequencies on cell towers to send data to and from your phone; 256-QAM , which allows more data to be transferred at one time; and 4×4 MIMO , which adds additional antennas to devices, allowing your phone to better pick up signals, thus resulting in increased speeds.
AT&T’s real 5G network is only available in 12 cities across the U.S.: Atlanta, Dallas, Houston, Indianapolis, New Orleans, Oklahoma City; Louisville, Kentucky; Jacksonville, Florida; Raleigh and Charlotte, North Carolina; and San Antonio and Waco, Texas. Service is initially limited to preselected customers and will be provided for free for at least 90 days.
Updated on March 12, 2019: Sprint has taken a full-page ad calling out AT&T’s 5G E.
Editors' Recommendations This new MediaTek chip is about to bring 5G to a lot more devices T-Mobile still has the fastest 5G, but its rivals are catching up T-Mobile’s huge lead in 5G speeds isn’t going anywhere Your Verizon plan just got a major overhaul — here’s what’s new Don’t buy the Pixel Tablet; get this cheaper Android tablet instead Business News 5G AT&T Cellular Carriers Tech News Mobile Netgear has unveiled its Nighthawk M6 Pro Mobile Hotspot Router, the most advanced mobile hotspot yet. The new portable router features the latest and fastest 5G and Wi-Fi technologies, delivering unprecedented range and performance for a wireless hotspot.
As the “Pro” moniker implies, the new mobile router is an enhanced version of the previously announced M6 hotspot, adding support for connecting to extremely high frequency (EHF) mmWave 5G service and supporting Wi-Fi 6E on the client side to ensure that laptops, smartphones, and tablets can take advantage of that peak performance, even in the busiest places.
A mobile router for urban life Mobile The budget smartphone market is a bustling space right now, with great phones from Nokia and Samsung making big waves. Motorola is the unofficial king of the budget smartphone, but its throne is looking quite shaky right now. That might be why it's decided to remix some classics this year, releasing new versions of the Moto G 5G and Moto G Stylus.
While there are definitely some improvements in the 2023 versions of both phones, Motorola has also made some cutbacks for both, making these new versions remixes of past classics rather than pure upgrades. Here's everything you need to know about the Motorola Moto G 5G (2023) and Moto G Stylus (2023).
Moto G 5G (2023) Mobile Verizon plans to expand its faster 5G Ultra Wideband network to reach beyond urban and suburban centers later this year, helping to drive up performance for folks in rural areas and spearhead the growth of its fixed wireless access (FWA) broadband services.
Verizon CEO Hans Vestburg touched on these details this week in the company’s quarterly earnings call, where he lauded the rapid expansion of the carrier’s C-band coverage to reach 200 million people in just over a year “since we lit up the first site.” Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
