Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Phones Best Tablets Tesla Phone Download Android 14 Best Android Phones Home Mobile Guides Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Best 5G carrier for 2022 By Jackie Dove and Andrew Martonik Close In 2021, you no longer have to go out of your way to pick a specific carrier, plan, or phone just to get 5G.
 Pretty much anywhere you go, you’re going to get access to the next-generation network. And that’s great because you can get back to picking a 5G carrier based on their coverage, plans , and overall experience.
Best 5G carrier overall: Verizon Best value 5G carrier: T-Mobile AT&T How to choose a 5G carrier Here, we break down all three major carriers offering 5G to show you which ones pull ahead in various areas, so you can pick the right one for you.
Best 5G carrier overall: Verizon Verizon launched its 5G network first and stumbled in doing so. It launched an mmWave-only network, which was a clear mistake. It offered incredible speeds, but coverage was truly horrendous. It took several months to take a turn and start offering a Sub-6 5G network nationwide. But now it has a great combination of the two, and that makes it the best 5G carrier today.
Have an Android phone? You can get unlimited 5G service for free T-Mobile still has the fastest 5G, but its rivals are catching up How fast is 5G? What you need to know about 5G speeds While you won’t find Verizon’s mmWave 5G outside of a few specific areas of a few dozen cities, its Sub-6 network is truly nationwide and can be used in any relatively populous area. Just like other Sub-6 networks, the speeds aren’t going to be appreciably faster than its best 4G areas, but they are faster overall. Where Verizon’s lead grows is in overall coverage — its 4G footprint is massive, and you’d be hard-pressed to find a part of the country where you don’t have Verizon coverage. That’s a big deal for many of us.
The only downside, as ever, is the cost: Verizon has the most expensive plans, no matter how many lines you choose. Plans start at $70 per month for one line, or $45 per month per line for three lines — though that plan doesn’t even include access to its mmWave network. You don’t turn to Verizon for a good value; you pick the carrier for its incredible footprint and speeds.
Verizon 5G: Everything you need to know Best value 5G carrier: T-Mobile You may be surprised to see that the T-Mobile 5G network is the runner-up here instead of AT&T. The once-scrappy carrier has seriously improved over the last few years, further helped by its merger with Sprint. T-Mobile was first to launch a nationwide 5G network using Sub-6 spectrum, and it’s done an incredible job of upgrading its existing towers to have a 5G network that nearly matches its 4G footprint. So if you’ve had T-Mobile on 4G in the past, then you probably would have 5G now.
T-Mobile’s plans also offer incredible value, as they are less expensive across the board than Verizon and AT&T. Better yet, it offers more for that money. Once you move above its lowest plan, you’re getting full-speed data roaming in Canada and Mexico, free (limited) data roaming everywhere else internationally, an ample hot spot data allowance, a free Netflix promotion, and the simplicity of having taxes and fees included in your flat-rate bill. T-Mobile’s billing is cheaper and simpler — a nice combination.
The downside for T-Mobile is its overall coverage — precisely where Verizon takes the lead. Even with Sprint’s holdings integrated, T-Mobile’s overall nationwide footprint struggles to stand up to Verizon and AT&T in more rural areas. If you stay in denser urban areas, you’d never know. But if you get out on the country roads, there’s a good chance you’ll see T-Mobile service drop well before the other carriers.
T-Mobile 5G: Everything you need to know AT&T The AT&T 5G network lands in an odd middle ground. It has neither the huge mmWave 5G network expansion that Verizon does nor the consistently wide-reaching Sub-6 5G network that T-Mobile does. Its plans, too, split the difference between the carriers. So why choose AT&T? Well, it could really come down to where you live. AT&T still has strongholds in many parts of the country, and if you’re in one of those areas, then by all means go with AT&T. Its Sub-6 network is pretty strong, and that’s much more important than how large its mmWave (or 5G+, as AT&T calls it) network is — because it isn’t large at all. AT&T has gotten a bad rap for having a 5G network that isn’t appreciably faster than its 4G network, but part of the explanation is that its 4G network is just very robust in many parts of the country. If you’re getting good speeds, does it really matter? You probably don’t care.
AT&T’s plans are competitive with T-Mobile’s on price, particularly if you have multiple lines on your plan. Its plans also include a good amount of high-speed, non-throttled data, and they can offer ample hot spot data — just go above the Unlimited Starter plan. But the plan extras just aren’t as good as T-Mobile’s overall, particularly when it comes to international data roaming.
AT&T 5G: Everything you need to know How to choose a 5G carrier So you’re ready to pick a carrier, and you care about upgrading from 4G to 5G.
 Here’s how you can make the right choice.
Understanding 5G coverage The tough thing about picking a “best” carrier in a country as massive as the U.S. is that your experience can vary wildly depending on where you live and visit. There’s no way to have one answer for every person, and that means doing research to see which carrier will be best where you need to use it.
We have a comprehensive breakdown of each carrier’s 5G network coverage that can get you started.
Verizon , AT&T , and T-Mobile all have coverage maps as well. It’s important to look very closely at the maps, though — they can often be misleading as to where 4G coverage stops and 5G coverage begins. And that’s even more important to note when looking at mmWave coverage, which can be incredibly difficult to map correctly.
Believe it or not, the best thing to do still is to ask friends and family in your local area about their experiences with various carriers. This may be tougher nowadays when you’re specifically looking for people’s experience with 5G, which they won’t be using unless they have a newer phone. Just like looking at coverage maps, you want to make sure you’re specifying that you want to know about the 5G experience.
But it’s not all about 5G; even as the networks expand, you’re still going to spend a considerable amount of time on 4G — especially when you’re in more rural areas. Verizon is well-known for having robust rural coverage, but that’s all coming thanks to its 4G network, not 5G. AT&T is second in this regard, and T-Mobile continues to be in third place in terms of rural coverage — though its merger with Sprint certainly helped.
5G coverage map: Every city with 5G on Verizon, AT&T, and T-Mobile Picking a 5G plan Thankfully, you no longer need to get a specific plan just to have 5G access.
 All three major carriers offer 5G on all of their plans — and you can even get 5G from prepaid carriers nowadays. So since you don’t need to get a plan just to have 5G, the question instead is which plans offer you the best value for your situation.
Plan pricing can change dramatically depending on whether you’re an individual or have a group plan, and what features — outside of 5G — are most important to you.
For a single line, Verizon is the most expensive , starting at $70 per month.
AT&T is $65, and T-Mobile is $60. Verizon’s base plan offers only Sub-6 5G, though — you need to spend $10 more per month to get mmWave. Most people will step up to the second-tier plans for their 5G phones , though, which come in at $80 per month on Verizon, $75 on AT&T, and $70 on T-Mobile.
For a group plan, for example with three lines, things are pretty competitive. For those higher-tier plans, Verizon, AT&T, and T-Mobile come in at $55, $50, and $47 per line per month, respectively. Once you get to prices that close, it’s the extras that make the difference. Each carrier offers different levels of hot spot data, data usage before being throttled, and promos like included streaming service subscriptions. See which one fits your needs, and go from there. You can also take a look at our list of 5G phone deals for potential carrier discounts.
Best 5G plans you can get today Understanding 5G speeds I chose to highlight speeds last for a reason: They simply aren’t as important as coverage and plan cost. All three carriers offer pretty consistent 5G speeds , particularly on their “nationwide” Sub-6 5G networks that you’ll be using the vast majority of the time. So long as you’re in a relatively dense metro area, you’re going to get good speeds on all three carriers.
As I mentioned above, it’s the coverage and consistency that matter far more than peak download speeds. Don’t let the flashy ads talking about insane mmWave 5G speeds lure you in — that isn’t important if you can’t get solid speeds everywhere. If you’re incredibly interested in which carriers offer the best possible speeds, you can look at independent testers like PCMag to glean an overall understanding of the networks. I simply caution you not to put too much weight on those speed numbers when picking a carrier.
Editors' Recommendations This new MediaTek chip is about to bring 5G to a lot more devices The best prepaid cell phone plans in 2023: the 7 best ones Motorola just launched 3 new Android phones, and they look incredible This new Android phone impressed me as soon as I picked it up T-Mobile’s huge lead in 5G speeds isn’t going anywhere Android 5G Android AT&T Cellular Carriers Google T-Mobile Tech News Verizon Mobile Every few months, a new market analysis comes out comparing the top 5G performance and availability among U.S. carriers. Each time, we wonder if the latest report will finally topple T-Mobile, which has held a commanding lead over rivals AT&T and Verizon for years. Yet, with each new report, T-Mobile pulls farther ahead while AT&T and Verizon are left in the dust.
With that in mind, Opensignal's latest 5G Experience Report doesn't bring too many surprises, at least in broad strokes. T-Mobile continues to deliver 5G download speeds that are more than twice those of any other carrier and more than twice the 5G availability. This means you won't just get faster performance on T-Mobile's 5G network, but you're more likely to be able to find a 5G connection.
Mobile Back in the day, before the iPhone, there were a plethora of personal digital assistant (PDA) devices that had styluses. Whenever you pulled out that stylus from your Palm or other PDA, you may have felt cool, and people would think, “Wow, that guy means serious business.” But when Steve Jobs took the stage for the original iPhone reveal back in 2007, one of the things he said was, “Who wants a stylus? You have to get ‘em, put ‘em away, you lose ‘em.” Ever since the iPhone introduced smart multitouch displays that needed only your finger, pretty much every other smartphone company followed suit.
Mobile OnePlus has introduced a new budget-priced phone for the U.S. market that includes some compelling hardware -- and a couple of rare conveniences. The OnePlus Nord N30 5G will set you back by $300 and is already up for preorders in the U.S., with a free pair of earbuds in tow.
Starting with the standout tricks, this phone comes with a microSD slot for storage expansion. It supports cards with up to 1TB storage capacity, which should be plenty if you are into capturing a lot of videos and high-resolution videos. Just keep in mind that microSD cards of 1TB capacity from reputed brands could cost as much as the phone itself.
Another notable perk is the presence of a 3.5mm headphone jack on the OnePlus Nord N30 5G. You don’t have to fork out extra cash on a USB-C to 3.5mm adapter or splurge on a Bluetooth audio wearable. However, there is more to this OnePlus phone than meets the eye, as some of its hardware perks defy its asking price by a huge margin.
You are greeted by a 6.7-inch Full HD+ (2400 x 1080 pixels) display with a 120Hz refresh rate. For comparison, Apple will charge you $800 for the iPhone 14 Plus, but it still keeps you limited to a slow 60Hz LCD screen. And there is no ugly notch to be seen here, as the selfie camera is neatly housed inside a dot-shaped cutout at the top.
Qualcomm’s octa-core Snapdragon 695 chipset powers this phone, paired with 8GB of RAM and 128GB of onboard storage. The battery capacity is also fairly generous at 5,000 mAh. Plus, you get support for 50-watt fast charging. OnePlus ships the fast charger in the retail package, just in case you’re irked by the bad precedent set by the thousand-dollar phones from Apple and Samsung.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
