Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Acer Chromebook Vero 514 Review Chromebook vs Laptop Screenshot on a Chromebook Reset a Chromebook Best Chromebooks Chromebook Problems Split Screen on a Chromebook Home Computing Deals Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Best laptop deals: Save on HP, Lenovo, Dell and Apple By Lucas Coll and Jennifer Allen Close Is it time to buy a new laptop? Then you’ve come to the right place, as we’ve gathered some of the best laptop deals that you can shop for today. We’ve picked laptops for different budgets and needs, ranging from low-priced devices to high-end machines, including Chromebook deals , gaming laptop deals , and MacBook deals.
 You’re going to have to hurry with your purchase if any of these offers catch your eye, though, because we’re not sure how much time you’ve got left to take advantage of them.
HP Stream 14 — $199, was $229 HP Chromebook X360 — $199, was $329 HP Laptop 17z — $290, was $500 Dell XPS 13 — $599, was $799 HP Envy x360 — $850, was $1,200 Dell G16 — $800 was $1,250 MacBook Air — $899, was $1,099 Victus by HP Gaming Laptop — $900, was $1,300 ThinkPad X1 Carbon Gen 11 — $1,160, was $2,319 Alienware x14 R2 — $1,700, was $2,000 Razer Blade 17 — $2,000, was $3,2000 HP Stream 14 — $199, was $229 HP The HP stream tells you exactly what it does in the name, which is to give you a budget-friendly device that you can use to stream content or use cloud apps. That means that the specs aren’t that powerful, with a budget Intel Celeron N4020 processor, 4GB of RAM, and 64GB of storage. Luckily, you do get a great 14-inch touchscreen monitor for easier navigation, and the overall build is pretty good for a budget device. As for battery life, expect around six hours or so, depending on your usage, so it will be good for a good chunk of the day before recharging.
HP Chromebook X360 — $199, was $329 HP Within the same price range as the HP Stream is the Chromebook X360, and while it has the same specs, the fact that it runs on ChromeOS means they’re used more efficiently. That’s not to say that Windows isn’t powerful, but it is quite resource-hungry, and with 4GB of RAM, you’d be running on S mode, while the Intel Celeron N4020 would also struggle a little. On the other hand, ChromeOS is more lightweight, so while the X360 is still a streaming laptop, you can get some work and productivity done on it without issue. Not to mention that it’s also a great budget 2-in-1 laptop , with a good overall build and specs.
Save on everything from laptops and tablets, to coffee makers and air purifiers, and a whole host of Apple tech like iPad, Apple Watch and even the latest M3 MacBooks, as well as smart home essentials like the Amazon Echo and smart bulbs.
HP Laptop 17z — $290, was $500 HP It’s not often we see a good budget 17-inch laptops , so it’s nice to see not only HP’s 17-inch offering but also the great discount it has going for it. Under the hood, you’ll find an entry-level AMD Athlon Gold 7220U processor, which is powerful enough to get most basic productivity work done. That said, it might be worth the upgrade to the AMD Ryzen 3 7320U for $80, which will give you a slightly better quality of life and allow you a bit more versatility. Either way, you get 8GB of RAM, which is great, as well as 128GB, which should be enough for most cases, although you can upgrade storage too. As for the screen, the base spec comes with a 17-inch panel that runs a 1600 x 900 resolution, although for this size of the screen, we’d probably recommend going for the 1920 x 1080 resolution upgrade, at least if you plan to watch films or shows on this.
Dell XPS 13 — $599, was $799 Dell The XPS 13 is Dell’s answer to the Macbook Air, a thin and light laptop with some great specs under the hood. It comes with a great mid-range 12th Gen Intel Core i5-1230U processor that’s more than enough to handle most productivity tasks and even potentially a bit of indie and casual gaming. You also get 8GB of DDR5 RAM , which is pretty fast, and 256GB of storage, which should be more than enough, especially if you don’t store a lot of things locally. As for the screen, it’s a 13.4-inch panel that runs a 1920×1200, and while it isn’t touch-enabled, it can hit a peak of 500 nits of brightness, so you can use it anywhere that doesn’t have direct sunlight.
HP Envy x360 — $850, was $1,200 HP If you want something powerful out of the gate without any customization, the HP Envy x360 is a great choice. For starters, it comes with an AMD Ryzen 7 7730U, which is an efficient and mid-to-high-end processor that will allow you a lot more than just productivity work, such as some editing. The 16GB of DDR4 RAM also means you can open more apps and tabs before hitting the limit while also just having a smoother overall experience on the day-to-day. As for the screen, you get a 15.6-inch OLED panel running a 1920 x 1080 resolution, and it even supports HDR500 and 500 nits of peak brightness, which are impressive, although don’t expect the HDR to be similar to what you’d find on a TV.
Dell G16 — $800 was $1,250 Dell The first gaming laptop on the list is the Dell G16, a great upgrade on its predecessor, the G15, which is an entry-level gaming laptop that was often recommended. It runs an entry-level RTX 3050Ti, slightly more powerful than other entry-level GPUs on gaming laptops, and it should be able to handle most free-to-play games just fine. It also comes with a more powerful 12th Gen Intel Core i7-12700H, which won’t bottleneck the GPU, and will let you do both productivity and editing work if you’d like. You also get 16 GB of DDR5 RAM and a 512GB SSD, which isn’t too bad, but with how big games have been getting, you might want to grab one of these external hard drive deals to help.
MacBook Air — $899, was $1,099 Luke Larsen / Digital Trends If you like the XPS 13 but would still like to get a MacBook Air , then we’re happy to say that there’s a great deal on this one. It runs one of Apple’s most powerful chips, the M2, making it one of the most versatile and powerful thin and light laptops out there. That said, it does only come with 8GB of RAM and 256GB of storage, which is on the lower side for this price range. Even so, it more than makes up for it with its 17 hours or so of battery life and is probably one of the best laptops if you want to be able to use it the whole day without a charge.
Victus by HP Gaming Laptop — $900, was $1,300 HP With an RTX 4050 under the hood, the HP Victus will manage to do a lot of basic gaming without an issue. The Intel Core i5-13500HX is a great mid-range processor without enough power to not bottleneck the RTX 4050, while the 16GB of DDR5 RAM will give you a lot of headroom and better quality of life. The hard drive is the same size here as with the G16 at 512GB, so again, you might consider grabbing an external hard drive to help supplement the internal storage.
ThinkPad X1 Carbon Gen 11 — $1,160, was $2,319 Lenovo The ThinkPad X1 Carbon Gen 11 excels as a business laptop with the mid-range Intel Core i5-1335U that’s more than powerful enough to handle any productivity tasks you throw about it. We’re also impressed to see 16 GB of DDR5 RAM, which adds a lot of extra versatility to the laptop and gives you more headroom to get things done. It also comes with an all-important fingerprint reader so you can maintain security standards, while the 1080P FHD camera gives you great meeting quality.
Alienware x14 R2 — $1,700, was $2,000 Jacob Roach / Digital Trends If you want a little bit more power in your gaming laptop, then this Alienware x14 R2 configuration comes with an RTX 4060 , which, while not that powerful, will let you run things at higher resolutions and refresh rates. That’s good because the 14-inch screen runs a great 2560 x 1600 resolution and an impressive 165Hz refresh rate. The RTX 4060 won’t be able to handle both, but it gives you a bit of leeway to pick which you prefer. Besides that you get a powerful Intel Core i7-13620H processor and a whopping 32GB of DDR5 RAM, which you can use for things like programming, video editing, and CAD, making this a very versatile laptop.
Razer Blade 17 — $2,000, was $3,2000 Digital Trends Razer is the Apple equivalent of gaming gear, and you can tell by the quality of their hardware and the associated cost, such as with this Razer Blade 17.
 While it is pricey, it runs a powerful RTX 3070 T i graphics card, which is where you start getting into the mid-to-high range of GPU power. You’ll be much more likely to hit the QHD resolution with a whopping 240Hz refresh rate, especially with a few graphical compromises here and there. It also runs a powerful Intel Core i7-12800H processor, 16GB of DDR5 RAM, and 1TB of storage, all of which will give you an excellent quality of life.
Editors' Recommendations 75 best Amazon Black Friday deals on laptops, TVs, Apple, and more Best Black Friday laptop deals: Get a new workhorse from $129 Best Black Friday MacBook deals: Get an Apple laptop from $505 Best Lenovo laptop Black Friday deals: Chromebooks, gaming laptops, and more Best Chromebook Black Friday deals on HP, Lenovo, and more Deals Apple Cheapest Prices Chromebooks Dell Google Chrome Laptops Lenovo Computing There are a lot of great Black Friday deals on laptops popping up as we get closer to the Black Friday and Cyber Monday weekend, but we've found a few great deals at Best Buy that are going to expire very soon. Luckily, the deals we've found are spread across budgets and brands, and we've even found a couple of gaming laptops for you to pick from. We've also included some Chromebooks for those who might not want to go with a Windows laptop. Best Buy Black Friday TV deals are blowing up equally as much, so check those out if you're trying to use up a gift card.
Our Favorite Best Buy Black Friday Laptop Deal Lenovo Slim 3 Chromebook -- $149, was $319 Computing Black Friday deals present the perfect time to save some money on a new laptop. There are a lot of Black Friday laptop deals that cut prices by the triple digits. Check out Amazon Black Friday laptop deals when you get a chance too -- there are also some great discounts there. One of our favorite laptop lines is the Dell XPS. This is Dell's most popular line of laptops. In some ways, they are Dell's answer to the MacBook -- they are sleek, thin, and prioritize gorgeous screens. We've collected the best Dell XPS laptop deals below, splitting them up by size. For other Dell laptops, like the G15 or the Inspiron line, check out our more generic Dell Black Friday deals list.
For the most part, the only difference is the screen size, but with a bigger screen comes a bigger chassis. That means there's more room to pack in powerful components and extra goodies like backlit keyboards. Check out our picks of the best Dell XPS deals below.
Best Dell XPS 13 Black Friday deals Computing Alienware is known for its high-end gaming laptops, which are not only powerful but are also quite pricey. Luckily, there are some great Black Friday deals on its laptops with both AMD and Intel CPUs, so you have a bit of a choice on what sort of setup you want to go with. While you're here, it is worth taking a look at the wider Alienware Black Friday deals and Dell Black Friday deals for even more options. We love Alienware, but consider browsing the similar Razer gaming laptop Black Friday deals.
Alienware Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals (AMD) AMD processors tend to be a little bit more power efficient and cheaper than Intel CPUs, and while that won't make a big difference with a gaming laptop, it's a nice little addition to have. Luckily, unlike other brands, Alienware doesn't shy away from combining AMD CPUs with high-end hardware like an RTX 4090, so if you'd like to go with and AMD CPU, you'll have a lot of choices to pick from.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
