Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Phones Best Tablets Tesla Phone Download Android 14 Best Android Phones Home Mobile News HPE seamlessly blends private 5G and Wi-Fi networks By Jesse Hollington Close Hewlett Packard Enterprise (HPE) has developed a new solution for organizations deploying private 5G infrastructure that allows for seamless movement of client devices across both 5G and Wi-Fi networks.
Moving between 5G and Wi-Fi Driving wider 5G adoption Although private 5G promises to deliver a much better experience for larger campus networks and industrial environments, traditional Wi-Fi 6 networks still have a place in most enterprises. For instance, even though 5G offers better wide-area coverage, Wi-Fi is a much more cost-effective solution for indoor connectivity and is also supported by a wider range of client devices.
HPE With its new offering, HPE recognizes that it can be a challenge making these two different worlds work together, and it’s built a new solution using Aruba Wi-Fi to allow devices to roam between private 5G and Wi-Fi as if everything is just a single unified network.
Moving between 5G and Wi-Fi HPE began laying the foundation for this in early 2020 with the announcement of Aruba Air Pass , a service that could allow devices to seamlessly hand off between traditional cellular and Wi-Fi networks. The goal of Air Pass was to securely authenticate guests to private enterprise Wi-Fi networks using credentials from their mobile operator.
Have an Android phone? You can get unlimited 5G service for free How fast is 5G? What you need to know about 5G speeds The 5G speed race is over and T-Mobile has won With Air Pass, eligible devices could simply hop onto Wi-Fi as necessary, without the need to hunt for Wi-Fi networks, figure out which one to join, and deal with passwords and captive portals. This would ensure that employees, students, customers, and visitors could always benefit from the best connectivity available, supplementing indoor cellular coverage gaps with stronger and faster Wi-Fi technology.
Today’s announcement extends that to deliver the same kind of experience for organizations using their own private 5G infrastructure, effectively providing the same benefits in the opposite direction. Existing Wi-Fi networks can be extended into private cellular networks, allowing folks to roam throughout a campus, industrial plant, airport, or even a large retail space , transitioning between 5G and Wi-Fi connections as needed, without ever missing a beat.
This kind of seamless connectivity is critical when working with real-time applications like video conferencing and Wi-Fi calling, and with private 5G deployments, it also ensures that client devices won’t need to be concerned with which network they’re using.
For example, a university student may start on a dorm Wi-Fi network in the morning, shift to a campus-wide 5G network on their way to their first class, and then move right back onto a different Wi-Fi network when they arrive at the lecture hall. To the student, their smartphone , or tablet will simply remain connected the whole time, without the need for them to do anything.
Driving wider 5G adoption For organizations looking to start building their own private 5G networks, HPE is also offering pre-integrated private 5G solutions with radio access network (RAN) equipment from leading vendors to provide rapid deployment, using what are basically canned solutions. HPE is also offering a variety of these turnkey systems, right down to hardened “5G-in-a-box” systems designed for remote industrial and military or tactical applications.
In fact, HPE describes its pre-integrated 5G Core Stack as “a full 5G core network that is shrink-wrapped and inflatable,” — a solution that it says can be deployed, tested, and up and running in less than 60 minutes.
All of HPE’s integrated solutions are also O-RAN compliant , which means that customers won’t have to worry about being locked into a single vendor’s platform. The HPE 5G Core Stack will also be available as a pre-integrated software and hardware platform via HPE’s GreenLake infrastructure-as-a-service solution. This not only provides a lower cost of entry that lets organizations quickly get started but can be scaled on demand as needs change.
The unified private 5G network and Wi-Fi infrastructure also means that staff will have a single point of management for devices, regardless of which networks they’re on. Information technology (IT) staff only have to provision a device once to enable it to access all the private 5G and Wi-Fi networks on campus.
With these new solutions, HPE is aiming to make it as simple as possible for organizations to get started with deploying their own private 5G networks, which should result in much wider adoption of 5G technologies, moving us into an ever more connected world.
“Data growth is creating countless new opportunities across many industries, but superfast, stable and secure connectivity is essential to enable these digital experiences,” said Tom Craig, VP and General Manager, HPE Communications Technology Group, in a press release. “With our leadership in both enterprise and cellular connectivity, HPE is the perfect partner to help customers deploy private networks that are future-proofed for today’s data-first reality. Together, HPE’s private 5G solution and Aruba Wi-Fi technology promise a complete private networking solution that helps to optimize the working environment.” This kind of melding of public and private 5G networks with traditional Wi-Fi technologies promises a world where network connectivity just works; where your mobile devices stay connected wherever you are, transparently letting you access the resources you need without manually jumping across multiple networks or worrying about Wi-Fi passwords and captive portals.
Editors' Recommendations This new MediaTek chip is about to bring 5G to a lot more devices T-Mobile still has the fastest 5G, but its rivals are catching up T-Mobile’s huge lead in 5G speeds isn’t going anywhere Netgear’s new M6 Pro router lets you use fast 5G anywhere you go Live in a rural area? Verizon 5G is about to get better for you 5G Business Tech News Mobile Each time a new analysis of mobile network performance gets published, it’s almost a given that we’ll see T-Mobile leading the pack in terms of delivering the fastest 5G speeds. After all, the “Un-carrier” had a massive lead in deploying its 5G networks — and it hasn’t been resting on its laurels.
However, its competitors haven’t been sitting still either. While Verizon may have been starting from behind, it’s been aggressively deploying the faster 5G spectrum that gave it a nice leap in 5G performance last year. Still, Verizon and AT&T are lagging quite a bit in overall mobile network performance, and AT&T has fallen even farther behind when it comes to delivering the best 5G speeds across the nation.
Mobile Motorola may be making a play for the flagship market with the Motorola Edge 40 Pro, but budget phones are what the American monolith is best known for. While it won't be making as many waves as the latest Samsung phone or Apple iPhone launch, the newest iteration of the Moto G is always something worth paying attention to, as Motorola is a true veteran of the space and knows what makes an excellent cheap device.
Best of all, this new Moto G comes at a time when budget phone enthusiasts have never had it so good. Previously premium features are filtering down into lower-priced devices, without altering that sweet low price or the features everyone loves. That's exactly what's happening with the new Motorola Moto G Power 5G, which includes a 50-megapixel main camera lens, a larger amount of storage, and a big screen with a 120Hz refresh rate. With the big 5,000mAh battery the G Power range is known for, this could be the $300 phone to grab if you love a budget bargain.
Super-smooth motion Mobile If you’ve been on the fence about picking up one of the latest Galaxy S23 phones, some new research from Ookla may help tip the scales in Samsung’s favor.
In a new speed test report, Ookla tcompared the 5G performance specs of the Galaxy S23 models to last year’s Galaxy S22 in several countries — with some surprising results across the board.
A worthwhile 5G upgrade Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
