Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Phones Best Tablets Tesla Phone Download Android 14 Best Android Phones Home Mobile News T-Mobile’s 5G Ultra Capacity network has four times the coverage of Verizon and AT&T By Jesse Hollington Close Last week, a report from Ookla revealed that T-Mobile’s 5G and 4G LTE networks are nearly twice as fast as those of Verizon and AT&T.
 Today, Opensignal released the results of a new study that reveals one of the most significant reasons for T-Mobile’s lead.
Similar performance on 5G Enhanced services The battle for 5G supremacy Different tactics 5G services cover a much wider range of frequencies than older cellular technologies, each with unique advantages and disadvantages. Since low-band 5G frequencies have considerably more range than higher frequencies and generally share the same airwaves as 4G/LTE services, all three carriers have leveraged this spectrum to provide their extended nationwide coverage. T-Mobile calls this its 5G Extended Range network, Verizon uses the term 5G Nationwide , and AT&T just calls it 5G.
Verizon Meanwhile, higher frequencies in the midrange C-band spectrum and extremely high frequency (EHF) millimeter wave (mmWave) range offer much better performance at more limited ranges. Hence, these services are used mostly in built-up urban areas where most customers live. This is T-Mobile’s 5G Ultra Capacity , Verizon’s 5G Ultra Wideband , and AT&T’s 5G Plus (5G+).
In its latest report , Opensignal collectively refers to these as 5G Enhanced services, and, in an industry first, the mobile analytics firm has set out to quantify the user experience of these premium 5G networks.
Have an Android phone? You can get unlimited 5G service for free How fast is 5G? What you need to know about 5G speeds The 5G speed race is over and T-Mobile has won Similar performance on 5G Enhanced services As we already know, higher frequencies provide a substantially better experience than low-band 5G.
 This is partly due to how radio waves work: all other things being equal, lower frequencies are always slower than higher ones. However, the problem is even worse in many cases as these frequencies still carry older 4G/LTE traffic, so the newer 5G signals have to share the airwaves.
What’s notable about Opensignal’s findings is that folks connecting to T-Mobile and Verizon’s 5G Enhanced services experienced similar speeds, even though the carriers use different midrange frequencies. T-Mobile has been rolling out its 5G Ultra Capacity network primarily using the 2.5GHz spectrum it inherited from its merger with Sprint.
 In contrast, Verizon has deployed its midrange services in the higher frequency 3.7–3.98Ghz C-band that it acquired in an early 2021 Federal Communications Commission (FCC) auction.
This may be one of the reasons that Verizon has an edge in three specific areas: multiplayer mobile gaming, over-the-top (OTT) voice services, and adaptive video experiences. Ookla’s recent second-quarter market report also bore this out. Verizon’s mmWave deployments are also more expansive than its rivals but likely not enough to make a significant difference. Verizon’s early 2022 C-band rollout expanded its 5G Ultra Wideband network to cover more than 100 million people in 1,700 cities across the country; before that, the faster network was only available in the downtown cores of around 82 cities.
Opensignal Since Opensignal was determined to explore the user experience on premium 5G services, it measured average download speeds on those networks exclusively. This reflects the performance you’re more likely to see if you have a 5G UC (T-Mobile), 5G UW (Verizon), or 5G+ (AT&T) icon showing up on your phone.
T-Mobile still took the top spot for average 5G download speeds at 232.2Mbps, but only by a hair; Verizon wasn’t far behind at 226.3Mbps. AT&T was a distant third with average download speeds of 161.1Mbps — performance that’s slower than T-Mobile’s overall 5G median download speeds of 187.12Mbps, recently reported by Ookla.
The battle for 5G supremacy This means the primary battle for performance and coverage is being fought in the midrange spectrum. While the carriers are roughly neck-in-neck for speed, Opensignal’s analysis shows that T-Mobile still has a commanding lead when it comes to 5G coverage — a lead that translates to higher median download speeds.
Across the country, Opensignal found that T-Mobile customers could connect to its 5G Ultra Capacity network in 41.9 percent of counties. By contrast, users on Verizon only saw the 5G Ultra Wideband network in 11.7 percent of the same counties. AT&T’s numbers were even more disappointing, with its 5G Plus service available in a scant 1.4 percent of 5G counties.
Opensignal In other words, if you’re a T-Mobile customer, you’re much more likely to be using the carrier’s best 5G services than if you’re on Verizon or AT&T. That doesn’t mean you won’t get 5G coverage on those other carriers, but it does mean that even if the 5G icon lights up on your phone, you won’t get speeds much faster than on a 4G/LTE network.
T-Mobile’s lead wasn’t just in 5G Enhanced services. Opensignal also found that its customers are much more likely to find 5G at all. At least one type of 5G was available for T-Mobile customers in 88.1 percent of the locations, while AT&T came in second at 69.5 percent and Verizon was in last place at 51.9 percent.
Different tactics Although these numbers remain widely skewed in T-Mobile’s favor, it’s important to remember that the Un-carrier had a considerable head start in its midrange 5G deployments. While Verizon and AT&T were waiting for the FCC to free up and auction off some C-band spectrum, T-Mobile was already forging ahead with Sprint’s 2.5GHz spectrum in April 2020. That was nearly a year before its rivals could even bid on the midrange spectrum and almost two years before the first C-band rollouts began in early 2022.
However, even though all three carriers bought licenses for chunks of new C-band spectrum, they’ve taken very different approaches. Verizon, which spent $45 billion for its share, began aggressively rolling out the new frequencies as soon as it could.
 Despite dropping $23 billion in the same auction, AT&T has been far more cautious in its C-band expansion, deploying 5G Plus service to only eight cities , which is why its 5G Enhanced services fared so poorly in Opensignal’s latest analysis.
That doesn’t mean that AT&T is sitting still. As Opensignal notes, the carrier plans to roll out its C-band spectrum later this year as part of a combined deployment that will also take advantage of some new 3.45–3.55GHz spectrum it obtained in a later auction. That project has already begun, but not early enough for it to appear in Opensignal’s research.
T-Mobile also spent around $9 billion on C-band spectrum, but we likely won’t see any wholesale C-band rollouts on T-Mobile. Instead, it’s using the new spectrum to supplement its 2.5GHz 5G Ultra Capacity network, providing a boost in those areas that need it.
Despite T-Mobile’s lead, it’s clear that the new C-band spectrum is changing the game.
 The question isn’t whether Verizon and AT&T will catch up to T-Mobile, but when it will happen. Since all 5G Enhanced services can provide roughly the same performance, it’s coverage that will continue to be the determining factor in each carrier’s overall 5G performance.
Editors' Recommendations This new MediaTek chip is about to bring 5G to a lot more devices T-Mobile still has the fastest 5G, but its rivals are catching up T-Mobile’s huge lead in 5G speeds isn’t going anywhere Netgear’s new M6 Pro router lets you use fast 5G anywhere you go Live in a rural area? Verizon 5G is about to get better for you 5G AT&T Cellular Carriers T-Mobile Tech News Verizon Mobile T-Mobile has just unveiled a new set of plans and perks to help both new and current customers break free of lengthy device contracts while guaranteeing you'll be able to get the best deals available on phone upgrades every two years.
Significantly, with the new plans, the "Un-carrier" promises equal treatment for all customers, whether they're coming over from another carrier or have been using T-Mobile's services for years. That's in contrast to the limited-time offers of its rivals, which often ignore their most loyal subscribers in an effort to entice others to switch carriers.
Mobile Each time a new analysis of mobile network performance gets published, it’s almost a given that we’ll see T-Mobile leading the pack in terms of delivering the fastest 5G speeds. After all, the “Un-carrier” had a massive lead in deploying its 5G networks — and it hasn’t been resting on its laurels.
However, its competitors haven’t been sitting still either. While Verizon may have been starting from behind, it’s been aggressively deploying the faster 5G spectrum that gave it a nice leap in 5G performance last year. Still, Verizon and AT&T are lagging quite a bit in overall mobile network performance, and AT&T has fallen even farther behind when it comes to delivering the best 5G speeds across the nation.
Mobile Motorola may be making a play for the flagship market with the Motorola Edge 40 Pro, but budget phones are what the American monolith is best known for. While it won't be making as many waves as the latest Samsung phone or Apple iPhone launch, the newest iteration of the Moto G is always something worth paying attention to, as Motorola is a true veteran of the space and knows what makes an excellent cheap device.
Best of all, this new Moto G comes at a time when budget phone enthusiasts have never had it so good. Previously premium features are filtering down into lower-priced devices, without altering that sweet low price or the features everyone loves. That's exactly what's happening with the new Motorola Moto G Power 5G, which includes a 50-megapixel main camera lens, a larger amount of storage, and a big screen with a 120Hz refresh rate. With the big 5,000mAh battery the G Power range is known for, this could be the $300 phone to grab if you love a budget bargain.
Super-smooth motion Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
