Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Phones Best Tablets Tesla Phone Download Android 14 Best Android Phones Home Mobile Features I tested AT&T, Verizon, and T-Mobile’s 5G with 70,000 people By Adam Doud Close Last week, when the fine folks at AT&T invited me to come down to New Orleans and check out one of their disaster recovery sites , they also included a little perk: The chance to attend the NCAA Men’s College Basketball Championship game. Personally, I’m not a basketball fan, and even less so a college sports fan, but I did see an opportunity. 5G carries a lot of promises, which include increased speed and lower latency.
 That’s great, but the third pillar of 5G greatness — bandwidth — has never manifested itself for me.
I have been carrying 5G phones since the first U.S. 5G network was built in my hometown of Chicago. Since then, I have been to baseball games, concerts, and theme parks, and the same thing always happens. My smartphone essentially becomes a paperweight, unless I’ve had the forethought to download podcast episodes beforehand.
So, when AT&T told me I’d be sitting in a room with 70,000 of my closest friends, I eagerly jumped at the chance to see where things stand in 2022.
T-Mobile still has the fastest 5G, but its rivals are catching up The 5G speed race is over and T-Mobile has won T-Mobile’s newest plans are exciting for new (and old) customers So, when AT&T told me I’d be sitting in a room with 70,000 of my closest friends, I eagerly jumped at the chance to see where things stand in 2022. In my suitcase to New Orleans, I packed three Samsung Galaxy S22 Ultras , one each for AT&T , Verizon , and T-Mobile.
 Two of the S22 Ultras were unlocked review samples provided by Samsung and AT&T respectively. The third was my personal T-Mobile branded S22 Ultra that I purchased on launch day.
During the game, I took all three phones and roamed the arena, from the seats on the floor (thank you AT&T) all the way to the nose-bleeds in section 645. I circled the entire arena during the process and covered about as much ground as one fat guy with a bad knee can cover in the space of a 40-minute game (basketball games have halves, not quarters — who knew?) So, let’s talk about the journey.
Floor level AT&T, Floor level Image used with permission by copyright holder I started my journey on the floor at the amazing seats AT&T provided me. Specifically, I sat in row 24 of the floor. I couldn’t see the divots on the basketball, but it was close. I wondered what 5G would be like there in the heart of the action.
AT&T Down AT&T Up Verizon Down Verizon Up T-Mobile Down T-Mobile Up 229 0.45 0.21 0 N/A N/A That’s an amazing download speed for AT&T, but the upload speed isn’t great. T-Mobile and Verizon are basically no-shows here. So, I decided to seek 5G elsewhere.
200 level, KU side I made my way back to the concourse and headed counter-clockwise for no particular reason. I wandered over to the entrance to the not-really-floor, not-really-mezzanine section of the stadium. From here, you couldn’t see about a third of the game. I wonder if there’s anything on Netflix! AT&T Down AT&T Up Verizon Down Verizon Up T-Mobile Down T-Mobile Up 697 2.48 16.5 0.54 N/A N/A Well, if you’re on AT&T, you’re good to go. Verizon had a better showing here, but not by much. T-Mobile still hasn’t shown up yet. Maybe a map will help us find 5G.
300 Level AT&T, 300 level Image used with permission by copyright holder I found a map of the stadium, which showed where I was, but would it show me where all the 5G was? The first half was winding down, so I had to start hustling a little bit.
AT&T Down AT&T Up Verizon Down Verizon Up T-Mobile Down T-Mobile Up 41.6 13.8 103 10.3 3.91 0.03 Well, hello T-Mobile! Glad you could join us! This was also the one place where Verizon outshone AT&T, though both reported pretty good speeds, all things considered. Spoiler alert: T-Mobile would languish in the single digits the entire night, so don’t get your hopes up.
400 level I was about a quarter of the way around the stadium, and I came across a surprisingly empty bar area. I thought about kicking back and having a cold one, but I had work to do. Complimentary beads were all over the place, so I donned a few before running my next tests.
AT&T Down AT&T Up Verizon Down Verizon Up T-Mobile Down T-Mobile Up 101 21.1 79.2 11.8 2.51 0.01 AT&T and Verizon were on pretty equal footing here, with T-Mobile still lagging behind. Maybe the problem is I wasn’t high enough. That must be it, so I leapfrogged the other levels and went straight to the top! 600 level AT&T, 600 level Image used with permission by copyright holder Way up here in the 600 level, I got to take in part of the half-time show and cure a bit of my acrophobia, which is a nice bonus. I sat as high as I could with my back against the outside wall to see if that would help. For one company, it did.
AT&T Down AT&T Up Verizon Down Verizon Up T-Mobile Down T-Mobile Up 860 21.4 8.11 0 5.79 0.04 Holy Toledo! AT&T literally did 100 times better than its two competitors. That’s surprising. I thought the rafters would be the obvious place to put 5G antennas, and therefore, being close to them would help. That was not the case at all. Maybe it’s time to head back down then.
500 level, North Carolina side I was on my way back down, and about two-thirds of my way around the Superdome, when I accidentally stole someone’s seat to run a quick test on the balcony overlooking the court. He got back before I was done, but he was nice enough to let me finish my last test.
AT&T Down AT&T Up Verizon Down Verizon Up T-Mobile Down T-Mobile Up 253 0.24 6.79 3.29 N/A N/A It seems Verizon and T-Mobile don’t like heights any more than I do. AT&T still seems pretty comfortable though, so that’s nice to know.
300 level Finally, I arrived at my last stop on my way back to my seat. I was on the 300 level about three-quarters of the way around the stadium in an outer halfway. This part of the 300 level is reserved for suites, and despite my best efforts, they wouldn’t let me in. I had to try.
AT&T Down AT&T Up Verizon Down Verizon Up T-Mobile Down T-Mobile Up 109 37.5 67.9 10.8 N/A N/A Once again, AT&T and Verizon found themselves on equal footing, and once again, T-Mobile didn’t really show up. That’s disappointing. I returned to my seat on the floor level just in time to see Kansas University tie up the game and pull ahead. It was quite exciting. I decided to run one last test. I fired up Netflix and tried downloading the complete season of The Last Dance from Netflix. AT&T managed the feat in four minutes and 33 seconds. Verizon and T-Mobile didn’t move the needle.
For reference, I took photos of my speed tests that you’re welcome to peruse below.
Previous Next 1 21 AT&T, Floor level Image used with permission by copyright holder Verizon, Floor level Image used with permission by copyright holder T-Mobile, Floor level Image used with permission by copyright holder AT&T, 200 level Image used with permission by copyright holder Verizon, 200 level Image used with permission by copyright holder T-Mobile, 200 level Image used with permission by copyright holder AT&T, 300 level Image used with permission by copyright holder Verizon, 300 level Image used with permission by copyright holder T-Mobile, 300 level Image used with permission by copyright holder AT&T, 400 Level Image used with permission by copyright holder Verizon, 400 Level Image used with permission by copyright holder T-Mobile, 400 Level Image used with permission by copyright holder AT&T, 600 level Image used with permission by copyright holder Verizon, 600 level Image used with permission by copyright holder T-Mobile, 600 level Image used with permission by copyright holder AT&T, 500 level Image used with permission by copyright holder Verizon, 500 level Image used with permission by copyright holder T-Mobile, 500 level Image used with permission by copyright holder AT&T, 300 level Image used with permission by copyright holder Verizon, 300 level Image used with permission by copyright holder T-Mobile, 300 level Image used with permission by copyright holder Conclusions So what does this all mean? Is AT&T the superior network? No, that’s not what it means. I first need to point out that speed testing is not the only test one can conduct to determine network quality. However, it’s the one that makes the most sense, and it’s the one that can be completed by one person in the span of a 40-minute basketball game.
Secondly, I reached out to all three carriers with the results of my test and learned a few things along the way. The Caesar’s Superdome is slightly older than I am, having been built in 1975. Because of that, any 5G , and indeed any cellular infrastructure in general, had to have been added afterward — way afterward. The building would not have been built with wireless technology in mind at all.
AT&T has been building its network in New Orleans and, specifically, at the Superdome for the past 18 months or so. Plus, consider the context. It’s not like AT&T was going to fly me to New Orleans, hand me a phone, and hope that it performed well. This has been a long time coming.
Verizon handled about half the traffic in the Superdome by itself.
Verizon reported that it handled about half the traffic in the Superdome by itself. Verizon recorded 35,000 connected devices in the Superdome out of 70,000. So, Verizon was carrying more load than the other two carriers by a lot.
On T-Mobile’s end, a spokesperson had a lot to say. Put simply, in and around the New Orleans area, T-Mobile has the “largest and fastest 5G network in New Orleans. In addition, T-Mobile has the fastest overall network (4G and 5G combined) in New Orleans.” As for the Superdome, T-Mobile’s installation project is underway and is anticipated to be ready for the start of the 2022 NFL season.
Basically, this amounts to three things. AT&T got there first, Verizon handled the most traffic (humblebrag), and T-Mobile will keep you connected once you leave. What’s especially nice is that, even in a crowd of 70,000 people, some progress is being made. It makes me hold out hope that the promise of 5G may be here. Finally, we’ll have connectivity no matter where we are or how many people we are with. Clearly, there is more work to be done, but if I’m being totally honest, my testing did not go as badly as I expected.
5G has made a ton of progress in the three years since it launched, but there’s still a long way to go.
Editors' Recommendations Have an Android phone? You can get unlimited 5G service for free T-Mobile’s huge lead in 5G speeds isn’t going anywhere Live in a rural area? Verizon 5G is about to get better for you T-Mobile’s 5G is still unmatched — but have speeds plateaued? T-Mobile subscribers can get MLS Season Pass for free AT&T Cellular Carriers Features T-Mobile Mobile T-Mobile continues to command a massive lead in offering the best 5G experience among U.S. carriers. A few weeks ago, a report from Ookla revealed that T-Mobile is leaving its rivals in the dust; now Opensignal has confirmed that not only is the Un-carrier’s lead increasing in raw speeds, but it’s leading the way in taking 5G into the mainstream.
According to Opensignal’s latest 5G Experience Report, T-Mobile not only offers the fastest 5G experience in the U.S. by a sizeable margin but on average, customers on T-Mobile spend nearly 50% of their time on the carrier’s 5G network.
Reaching for the best 5G coverage Mobile T-Mobile said on Thursday it has suffered a data breach involving 37 million customer accounts.
The mobile carrier discovered the breach on January 5 and took action “within 24 hours.” Mobile Ookla has just published its latest market report revealing where U.S. mobile carriers and smartphone manufacturers stand in terms of providing the best 5G and 4G/LTE services.
Not surprisingly, T-Mobile remained in the top spot during the fourth quarter of 2022, eclipsing its rivals when it comes to median download speeds. What may be more surprising is that T-Mobile has increased its lead, clocking in at 151.37Mbps overall and 216.56Mbps for 5G, breaking the 200Mbps barrier for median 5G speeds across all bands for the first time.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
