Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Phones Best Tablets Tesla Phone Download Android 14 Best Android Phones Home Mobile Verizon moves forward with 5G UW expansion despite airline concerns By Jesse Hollington Close Verizon’s acquiescence to a request by U.S. transportation officials to delay its midband 5G spectrum rollout hasn’t dampened its enthusiasm for the new technology.
A clash of carriers, airlines, and regulators Verizon’s 5G Ultra Wideband Network The carrier announced today that it expects to use it to bring its 5G Ultra Wideband service to more than 100 million people throughout more than 1,700 cities around the U.S. by the end of January, thanks largely to the soon-to-be-deployed C-band spectrum.
A clash of carriers, airlines, and regulators Last March, Verizon dropped $45 billion to acquire a chunk of the new 5G spectrum being auctioned off by the Federal Communications Commission (FCC), gaining 280 MHz of spectrum in the newly available 3.7GHz to 3.98GHz band.
What is 5G UW? The real meaning behind the icon on your phone It’s late 2022, and Verizon and AT&T still can’t beat T-Mobile’s 5G network 5G Nationwide vs. 5G Ultra Wideband: What’s different (and why you should care) Verizon planned to begin rolling out the new spectrum on December 5, 2021, although it agreed in early November to push that back to January 5, 2022, to help alleviate concerns raised by the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) and aviation industry experts about potential aircraft interference.
However, that controversy is still raging on, and last week U.S. Transportation Secretary Pete Buttigieg and FAA Chief Steve Dickson asked both Verizon and AT&T to push back the planned rollout by another two weeks. At first, both carriers firmly refused that request, but later relented following a day of intensive discussions on Monday with representatives from the aviation sector.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Following the talks, President Joe Biden even weighed in, with a statement from The White House calling “last night’s agreement a significant step in the right direction,” and thanking everyone involved “for their cooperation and good faith.” Biden adds that his administration remains “committed to rapid 5G deployment, while minimizing disruptions to air operations.” The statement from The White House also appears to put a pretty firm pin on January 19 as the rollout date for the new spectrum, with the president noting that the agreement “puts us on track to substantially reduce disruptions to air operations when AT&T and Verizon launch 5G on January 19.” Verizon’s 5G Ultra Wideband Network Although it seems like Verizon is preparing to move ahead rapidly with its C-band expansion, it’s also muddying the waters a bit by rolling the new spectrum into its 5G Ultra Wideband tier.
As of now, Verizon’s 5G Ultra Wideband network consists exclusively of the much higher-frequency mmWave spectrum, which operates at the 28GHz and 39GHz frequencies — well above the 3.7GHz to 3.98GHz C-band spectrum.
These mmWave frequencies offer much faster speeds that can peak well above 1Gbps under ideal conditions, but also suffer from very limited range. As a result, Verizon hasn’t deployed its mmWave service outside a few major city cores.
Verizon The new midrange C-band spectrum promises to offer a much wider deployment, but it’s also safe to say that most of these 100 million new customers that Verizon’s Ultra Wideband Network will soon be reaching won’t see performance anywhere close to the “speeds up to 10x faster than 4G LTE” that Verizon is promising.
Of course, that doesn’t mean that Verizon customers won’t see a dramatic speed improvement. Until now, only Verizon’s 5G Nationwide network has been available outside those few major cities where the carrier has deployed mmWave. Not only do these towers operate in lower 600MHz spectrum, but they also share bandwidth with Verizon’s 4G LTE network.
In fact, independent tests conducted by PC Magazine’s Sascha Segan in late 2020 and early 2021 revealed that Verizon’s 5G Nationwide service was often slower than its 4G LTE. This means that regardless of what Verizon is calling its new C-Band network, it’s safe to say that many more Verizon customers are going to notice a remarkable improvement once the new frequencies come to their neighborhoods.
Editors' Recommendations Live in a rural area? Verizon 5G is about to get better for you Is 5G dangerous for airplanes? Here’s what pilots and the FAA say When did 5G come out? The long, complicated history of its release What frequency is 5G? All the different 5G ranges, explained What are the benefits of 5G? How it helps you today (and tomorrow) News Tech News Mobile T-Mobile is setting out to prove that carriers don’t need to deploy extremely high-frequency mmWave technology to get blazing fast speeds. Thanks to Carrier Aggregation technology, the “Un-carrier” has demonstrated performance of 3Gbps download speeds on good old-fashioned low-band and mid-band 5G channels.
In a press release today, T-Mobile revealed that it has reached these unprecedented speeds for the first time ever on a commercial device; in this case, a Samsung Galaxy S22 powered by a Snapdragon X65 modem. “This test demonstrates the incredible power of mid-band spectrum and represents another huge step forward for stand-alone 5G,” said Neville Ray, President of Technology at T-Mobile.
Mobile The rollout of 5G technology around the world has been considerably more complex than the wireless standards that came before. Since 5G demands unprecedented levels of performance, carriers have to navigate a tricky sea of radio frequencies to ensure they can deliver the best speeds and coverage possible.
Older GSM, 3G, and 4G/LTE technologies ran within a relatively narrow band of frequencies, leaving carriers with somewhat limited choices in deploying their networks. By comparison, 5G covers the entire spectrum, from low-band 600MHz to extremely high 47GHz frequencies.
Mobile You may have noticed that the rollout of 5G has been much more complicated than prior advancements in cellular technology. Certainly, in the days of the 3G and 4G/LTE rollouts, we weren’t hearing terms like “midband,” “C-band,” “mmWave,” and “sub-6GHz” being thrown around.
Of course, those technologies didn’t promise to revolutionize wireless communications the same way that 5G has. It’s fair to say that even the best 4G/LTE service was mainly limited to use by smartphones and tablets. By contrast, 5G is already becoming a viable replacement for home and business internet services.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
