Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Phones Best Tablets Tesla Phone Download Android 14 Best Android Phones Home Mobile Guides What does a private 5G network mean for you? By Jesse Hollington Close The advent of 5G has the potential to change the world in a lot more ways than just offering faster mobile data. With speeds and latency good enough to replace wired broadband connections, 5G is already revolutionizing home internet services, but even that’s just the tip of the iceberg.
Advantages of private 5G Private 5G and you Higher education Private 5G versus Wi-Fi In many ways, the real future of 5G technology lies in private 5G networks.
 With the ability to deliver Wi-Fi-like performance over a much wider area, 5G is finding its way into industrial, agricultural, healthcare, and even retail spaces. With 5G, businesses can get much faster and broader coverage without the expense of wiring up and deploying dozens more Wi-Fi access points.
Anna Dziubinska / Unsplash While most of these private 5G networks have traditionally been invisible to consumers, that’s starting to change as the retail and hospitality industries and educational institutions realize that private 5G can also help them deliver services far more efficiently to their clientele.
Advantages of private 5G Even if you haven’t experienced it yourself, you’re probably aware that 5G can reach speeds that older 4G/LTE networks couldn’t even touch. Under ideal circumstances, a high-frequency millimeter-wave (mmWave) 5G network can deliver speeds of up to 4Gbps.
Have an Android phone? You can get unlimited 5G service for free How fast is 5G? What you need to know about 5G speeds The 5G speed race is over and T-Mobile has won While mmWave isn’t widespread among carriers due to its relatively short range, that’s not a problem for most private 5G networks since they typically only cover a smaller area. Similarly, carriers mix mmWave 5G into their larger mid-band and low-band 5G networks to cover dense and busy areas like stadiums and airports.
L.Filipe C.Sousa / Unsplash To put this in context, even the fastest Wi-Fi 6 routers can only deliver 4.8Gbps on a single 5GHz channel, and you pretty much have to be sitting on top of the router to get those speeds. 5G can provide sustained throughput over a much greater distance, plus it handles the congestion created by a lot of wireless devices much more effectively than even Wi-Fi 6.
These multi-gigabit speeds aren’t about delivering that kind of performance to a single device. By offering 4Gbps of bandwidth, networks can support dozens or even hundreds of devices running at speeds that are at least acceptable. For example, to use some oversimplified math, 100 devices could each get 40Mbps speeds — more than enough to stream 4K video to a mobile device.
Private 5G and you A recent study conducted by Verizon predicts that 5G adoption in stores could triple by 2024 as retailers search for new ways to provide digital in-store experiences for their customers.
In fact, with 93% of retailers expecting in-store phone usage to increase substantially, analysts predict that moving to 5G will become unavoidable. Many in-store Wi-Fi networks are already struggling to keep up with customer demand, especially in larger retail spaces like grocery stores and department stores, not to mention shopping malls.
Incisiv You’ve probably noticed this if you’ve ever tried to hop onto the Wi-Fi network at your local shopping mall, especially during busier times of the day or holiday shopping seasons. Most of the time, you’re better off just avoiding the Wi-Fi network entirely and staying on your cellular data plan, even if it costs you a bit more in data charges.
Today, the adoption of private 5G among retailers is sitting at around 13%, and much of that is only used internally for things like real-time inventory management and point-of-sale systems. Analysts say that we can expect that to triple by 2025, with the most significant increase coming to grocery and general merchandise stores.
More significantly, these private 5G networks will become much more customer-facing. There will come a day when you’ll be able to switch over to a private 5G network when walking into your local Walgreens to access in-store services and local deals.
David Dvořáček / Unsplash However, private 5G goes well beyond the retail industry. Hotels are also getting on board, offering 5G networks that provide guests with seamless, hassle-free network coverage no matter where they are on the property. For example, the private 5G network at a hotel in South Beach, Florida , keeps guests connected to the internet and even lets them monitor and control what’s happening in their rooms, whether they’re in the dining room or lounging by the pool.
When you check into a resort that offers private 5G, you’ll no longer need to worry about Wi-Fi passwords and network names. Instead, you’ll be connected to the hotel’s 5G network everywhere on the property, the same way things (hopefully) work with the 5G service you’re getting from your cellular carrier.
Higher education Universities are also deploying private 5G networks to provide much-needed coverage and performance for students across entire campuses. This is another area where Wi-Fi networks just don’t cut it. Campuses often provide Wi-Fi networks within the faculty buildings and dorms, but you’re on your own when moving between buildings.
Celona With private 5G, students, faculty, and visitors can access the school’s network everywhere on the property without the frustration of weaker Wi-Fi signals. New technologies can seamlessly blend private 5G and Wi-Fi networks , so students and staff can move from a faculty’s local Wi-Fi network to the broader 5G services without ever missing a beat.
For example, a university student could move from their dorm Wi-Fi network to the campus-wide 5G on the way to their first class and then onto a different Wi-Fi network when they arrive at the faculty building. They could do all this even while participating in a real-time video or audio call, as the handoff between networks would be transparent to the person’s smartphone or tablet.
Private 5G versus Wi-Fi Wi-Fi technologies are also still evolving rapidly, and it’s unlikely 5G will supplant Wi-Fi networks entirely anytime soon.
Even 5G home internet works on the principle of blending 5G and Wi-Fi. We’re still years away from delivering 5G directly to every device in your home. Instead, your carrier provides a home router that’s not unlike what you already use with a wired broadband provider, except it connects wirelessly to the 5G network. Your PCs, laptops, game consoles, and smart home devices connect to that using Wi-Fi just like any other home router.
Over the next few years, we’ll continue to see the symbiotic relationship between 5G and Wi-Fi grow more robust since there’s still a lot of room for both. 5G will be used to let you roam around stores, hotels, and university campuses with your smartphone or tablet, while Wi-Fi will still handle things in smaller areas like classrooms, hotel rooms, and, of course, your home.
Editors' Recommendations This new MediaTek chip is about to bring 5G to a lot more devices T-Mobile still has the fastest 5G, but its rivals are catching up T-Mobile’s huge lead in 5G speeds isn’t going anywhere Netgear’s new M6 Pro router lets you use fast 5G anywhere you go Live in a rural area? Verizon 5G is about to get better for you 5G Cellular Carriers Verizon Mobile Each time a new analysis of mobile network performance gets published, it’s almost a given that we’ll see T-Mobile leading the pack in terms of delivering the fastest 5G speeds. After all, the “Un-carrier” had a massive lead in deploying its 5G networks — and it hasn’t been resting on its laurels.
However, its competitors haven’t been sitting still either. While Verizon may have been starting from behind, it’s been aggressively deploying the faster 5G spectrum that gave it a nice leap in 5G performance last year. Still, Verizon and AT&T are lagging quite a bit in overall mobile network performance, and AT&T has fallen even farther behind when it comes to delivering the best 5G speeds across the nation.
Mobile Motorola may be making a play for the flagship market with the Motorola Edge 40 Pro, but budget phones are what the American monolith is best known for. While it won't be making as many waves as the latest Samsung phone or Apple iPhone launch, the newest iteration of the Moto G is always something worth paying attention to, as Motorola is a true veteran of the space and knows what makes an excellent cheap device.
Best of all, this new Moto G comes at a time when budget phone enthusiasts have never had it so good. Previously premium features are filtering down into lower-priced devices, without altering that sweet low price or the features everyone loves. That's exactly what's happening with the new Motorola Moto G Power 5G, which includes a 50-megapixel main camera lens, a larger amount of storage, and a big screen with a 120Hz refresh rate. With the big 5,000mAh battery the G Power range is known for, this could be the $300 phone to grab if you love a budget bargain.
Super-smooth motion Mobile If you’ve been on the fence about picking up one of the latest Galaxy S23 phones, some new research from Ookla may help tip the scales in Samsung’s favor.
In a new speed test report, Ookla tcompared the 5G performance specs of the Galaxy S23 models to last year’s Galaxy S22 in several countries — with some surprising results across the board.
A worthwhile 5G upgrade Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
