Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Phones Best Tablets Tesla Phone Download Android 14 Best Android Phones Home Mobile Features The sordid history of 5GE, or when 5G isn’t 5G at all By Jesse Hollington Close In the quest to deliver true 5G technology , wireless carriers have naturally been trying every angle they can to promote their own 5G services as superior to the competition. This has resulted in a confusing assortment of letters and symbols often appearing after the letters “5G” on your smartphone to suggest that you’re getting service that is somehow better than the norm.
When 5G isn’t actually 5G 5GE wasn’t well received So, what is 5GE then? What about other 5G symbols? While this may be true in some cases, there’s at least one exception where it means the exact opposite: AT&T’s “5GE” or “5G Evolution” isn’t what you probably think it is.
When 5G isn’t actually 5G Adam Doud/Digital Trends AT&T jumped the gun on the move to 5G.
 To capitalize on the hype around 5G, it decided it would try and communicate to its customers that it was getting ready for the new technology — “evolving” its network into 5G, if you will.
Have an Android phone? You can get unlimited 5G service for free T-Mobile’s huge lead in 5G speeds isn’t going anywhere Netgear’s new M6 Pro router lets you use fast 5G anywhere you go For many carriers, the road to 5G does require some upgrades to existing 4G/LTE networks , and AT&T was no exception. However, rather than waiting until its proper 5G infrastructure was in place and ready to support its customers, the carrier decided it should label its enhanced 4G/LTE network as the “5G Evolution” network, and the “5GE” label was born.
However, no matter what your smartphone tells you, “5GE” is not 5G. The symbol that shows up in your status bar isn’t magically determined by the iOS or Android operating systems looking at the cellular network your phone is on; it’s entirely there at the whim of the carrier.
When AT&T pulled this stunt in 2019 , many folks were misled into believing their 4G/LTE smartphones had suddenly gained 5G capabilities. For example, even though Apple didn’t release its first 5G device until the iPhone 12 came along in 2020, AT&T customers with an iPhone XS or iPhone XR began seeing a “5GE” icon light up on the devices when iOS 12.2 landed in early 2019. Owners of the original Samsung Galaxy S10 and Pixel 4 had similar experiences.
No 4G/LTE smartphone can gain 5G capabilities through a software update. This was deceptive marketing on AT&T’s part, plain and simple, and its rivals quickly started calling the carrier out its nonsense.
5GE wasn’t well received AT&T Sprint filed a lawsuit against AT&T, stating that “the significance of AT&T’s deception cannot be overstated.” Among Sprint’s concerns was that AT&T’s “false advertising” would damage the reputation of real 5G by misleading consumers into believing that 5G wasn’t any faster than 4G/LTE.
“Calling its network 5GE does not make it a 5G network,” read Sprint’s complaint , and it “instead deceives customers into believing it is something that it is not.” To make matters worse, 5GE turned out to be a bit slower than its competitors’ 4G/LTE services, which wasn’t surprising considering it’s just 4G in disguise. However, one might have expected that AT&T’s “upgraded” 4G/LTE network would actually result in some performance improvements.
An early 2019 report from Opensignal confirmed that AT&T users with “5GE-capable smartphones” did get a better experience than “users with less capable smartphones,” but it also clarifies that those “5GE-capable” devices aren’t anything special — they’re just smartphones with reasonably modern 4G/LTE capabilities.
Opensignal “AT&T users with a 5GE-capable smartphone receive similar speeds to users on other carriers with the same smartphone models that AT&T calls 5GE,” the report adds.
Although Sprint and AT&T “amicably settled” their lawsuit, it’s clear that Sprint didn’t get everything it was asking for. Sprint wanted an injunction that would have barred AT&T from using the “5GE” designation or anything like it. However, a source told the Dallas Business Journal , which first reported on the settlement in 2019, that AT&T would continue to use the 5G Evolution advertising because “our customers love it.” It wasn’t until after the National Advertising Review Board (NARB) censured AT&T in 2020 that the carrier agreed to back down, at least partially. The NARB determined that AT&T’s “claims [would] mislead reasonable consumers into believing that AT&T is offering a 5G network,” and while AT&T stated that it “respectfully disagreed with the reasoning,” it promised to comply with the NARB’s decision.
In doing so, AT&T did stop advertising “5G Evolution.” However, it never backed down from using the 5GE icon on its devices.
So, what is 5GE then? Simply put, 5GE is nothing more than a silly name for 4G LTE Advanced service.
 This does include class-leading features like carrier aggregation, 4×4 MIMO, and 256 QAM. Still, none of that is any different from what Verizon, T-Mobile, and Sprint were already offering customers with a 4G/LTE symbol.
In other words, 5GE is meaningless. In fact, if you have a 5G-capable smartphone on AT&T, you can humorously confirm for yourself that it’s not truly 5G. Go into your settings and turn 5G off entirely, and there’s a chance you’ll see the “5G” or “5G+” icon replaced with “5GE.” That’s not a bug; 5G is actually off on your phone, but of course, 5GE isn’t 5G.
Sadly, there are situations where 5GE may actually be faster than true 5G service, but this has more to do with how the carriers have built out their low-band 5G networks.
 It’s not that 5GE is anything special; it’s simply that low-band 5G is hampered by the need to share the airwaves with 4G/LTE signals.
To roll out 5G as quickly and widely as possible, carriers turned to the low-band cellular frequencies already carrying 4G/LTE signals. This was possible thanks to a feature of 5G known as Dynamic Spectrum Sharing (DSS).
When 5G signals are running on the same frequencies as 4G/LTE signals, they have to yield to the older technology since it doesn’t know how to share. As a result, 5G can only fit into whatever spaces are left over. Since 5GE is just 4G/LTE, it gets priority over genuine 5G traffic when the network is congested. However, the same thing happens for Verizon customers whose phones say 4G/LTE.
The bottom line is that when you see “5GE” on your smartphone, you’re on a 4G/LTE network. It’s the same level of service you’d get from 4G on a Verizon or T-Mobile phone; AT&T just uses a different icon.
What about other 5G symbols? The good news is that 5GE is the outlier when it comes to blatantly misleading 5G symbols. The other symbols you’ll see as part of the 5G icon on your phone typically mean you’re on a better version of the carrier’s network.
Verizon uses “5GUW” or “5GUWB” to identify its 5G Ultra Wideband network , depending on which device you’re using. This was initially made up exclusively of mmWave cells in a few major urban centers, but the carrier has recently expanded that to include its midrange C-band spectrum.
AT&T uses “5G+” or “5G Plus” in the same way, although its customers are much less likely to see this icon pop up. AT&T’s mmWave is confined to dense venues like stadiums and airports, while its midrange C-band rollout has been going more slowly , covering only eight cities right now. AT&T still uses “5GE” to this day, but you’ll only find it if you stray out of actual 5G coverage. Maybe AT&T should call it “5G Minus.” Despite having the most expansive midrange 5G network, T-Mobile has chosen not to decorate its 5G icon. If you’re a T-Mobile customer, your phone will simply say “5G” whether you’re on low-band, midband, or high-band mmWave. With T-Mobile, unless you’re in a rural area, there’s a good chance you’re on the company’s midband Ultra Capacity 5G network anyway, and T-Mobile doesn’t feel the need to point this out to its customers.
While some folks may find it helpful to know when they’re using their carrier’s better 5G services, these icons are essentially marketing gimmicks that tend to divide customers into the “haves” and “have-nots.” A plain old 5G icon is boring, and even though you are using 5G, it’s low-band 5G , which means you’re not likely to get speeds that are much faster than 4G/LTE.
Either way, as long as your smartphone shows you a 5G icon without an “E” on the end, you’re getting the best available 5G service possible for your current location.
Editors' Recommendations This new MediaTek chip is about to bring 5G to a lot more devices T-Mobile still has the fastest 5G, but its rivals are catching up The 5G speed race is over and T-Mobile has won Live in a rural area? Verizon 5G is about to get better for you T-Mobile’s 5G is still unmatched — but have speeds plateaued? 5G AT&T Cellular Carriers Features T-Mobile Verizon Mobile If you’ve been on the fence about picking up one of the latest Galaxy S23 phones, some new research from Ookla may help tip the scales in Samsung’s favor.
In a new speed test report, Ookla tcompared the 5G performance specs of the Galaxy S23 models to last year’s Galaxy S22 in several countries — with some surprising results across the board.
A worthwhile 5G upgrade Mobile Qualcomm has just announced the Snapdragon X75, the company's sixth-generation 5G modem that promises to push smartphones and other connected devices into the next phase of 5G technology.
The Snapdragon X75 is the successor to last year's X70, which is the modem found in the Snapdragon 8 Gen 2 that powers this year's most powerful 5G smartphones — including Samsung's recently unveiled Galaxy S23 Ultra and the OnePlus 11. However, it's more than just an evolution of that earlier modem system, as Qualcomm has packed in support for next-generation 5G Advanced technology along with an entirely new architecture and powerful AI features that will allow mobile devices to access better coverage and achieve even faster speeds.
5G grows up big-time Mobile T-Mobile continues to command a massive lead in offering the best 5G experience among U.S. carriers. A few weeks ago, a report from Ookla revealed that T-Mobile is leaving its rivals in the dust; now Opensignal has confirmed that not only is the Un-carrier’s lead increasing in raw speeds, but it’s leading the way in taking 5G into the mainstream.
According to Opensignal’s latest 5G Experience Report, T-Mobile not only offers the fastest 5G experience in the U.S. by a sizeable margin but on average, customers on T-Mobile spend nearly 50% of their time on the carrier’s 5G network.
Reaching for the best 5G coverage Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
