Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Phones Best Tablets Tesla Phone Download Android 14 Best Android Phones Home Mobile Guides What is low-band 5G? Sub-6 explained By Jesse Hollington Close There’s little doubt that 5G promises to change how we communicate, live, and work in a pretty big way. Unlike the cellular technologies of yesteryear, 5G offers capabilities and performance that were once the exclusive domain of wired networks. So, it’s no surprise that deploying these advanced networks has become more involved than anything that’s come before.
What is low-band 5G? What does Sub-6 mean? The low-band tradeoff Sharing the airwaves The fallback spectrum To deliver what 5G is truly capable of, wireless carriers have had to work across a much broader range of radio frequency spectrum, from the lower frequencies where the original GSM cellular networks lived, up to those used by radar systems and satellites.
HPE Although wireless carriers have been striving to use the higher midrange and millimeter wave ( mmWave ) frequencies for the advantages they offer, it was in the lowest part of the sub-6GHz zone where most 5G rollouts began.
The reason for this was pretty simple. These low-band frequencies are where older GSM , 3G , and 4G/LTE technologies have lived for the past two decades. This means carriers already had the necessary licenses for this spectrum. They also had thousands of cellular towers deployed that could be reconfigured to deliver 5G without the need for entirely new equipment.
Have an Android phone? You can get unlimited 5G service for free T-Mobile still has the fastest 5G, but its rivals are catching up T-Mobile’s huge lead in 5G speeds isn’t going anywhere What is low-band 5G? Low-band frequencies are technically defined as those below 1GHz. However, in the context of wireless carriers, this covers everything below 2.3GHz — the frequencies where GSM, 3G, and LTE have historically lived.
In North America, the original GSM services used the 850MHz and 1.9GHz (1900MHz) frequencies almost exclusively. Later, with 3G and LTE, all the U.S. carriers expanded onto the 700MHz and 1.7GHz frequencies, while AT&T also went up into the 2.3GHz range, T-Mobile added 600MHz on the bottom end, Sprint also set up on the 2.5GHz band. Some carriers in Canada and Mexico also deployed LTE services at 2.6GHz, but this higher frequency wasn’t licensed for cellular use in the United States in those days.
Jan Jirous/Shutterstock However, other than Sprint, all the major U.S. carriers generally stuck to the four core frequencies: 700MHz, 800MHz, 1.7GHz, and 1.9GHz. When T-Mobile merged with Sprint in early 2020, its 2.5GHz 4G/LTE network was shut down so that these frequencies could be repurposed for T-Mobile’s midband Ultra Capacity 5G service.
When AT&T and T-Mobile began rolling out their 5G networks, they stuck to the frequencies they already used and had licenses for. AT&T deployed its 5G at 850MHz, and T-Mobile rolled out its nationwide network using its 600MHz spectrum. Verizon went the other way and avoided the lower frequencies entirely at first. Instead, it chose the much higher frequency mmWave spectrum, giving it a considerable speed advantage at the expense of abysmal coverage.
What does Sub-6 mean? The term sub-6 has become somewhat confusing, as it was initially used to mean all of the frequencies below 6GHz, in contrast to mmWave , which starts at 24GHz.
While the difference between sub-6GHz frequencies and mmWave is pretty staggering, when the industry started using the term sub-6, the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) hadn’t yet made the midrange C-band frequencies available for 5G use. Once carriers started to deploy 5G in the 2.5–4GHz range, it became clear that not all sub-6GHz frequencies deserve to be lumped together, and some folks now use sub-6 to refer only to low-band 5G.
That’s not universally true, though. Many will correctly point out that since Sub-6 still means Sub-6GHz, it should apply to all frequencies below 6GHz, including faster frequencies like C-band or even higher 4-5GHz spectrum that could someday be freed up, along with slower 600MHz low-band. Hence, sub-6 has become an imprecise term, and it’s better to refer to the 5G spectrum as low-band and midband, as there are some significant differences between the two frequency ranges.
The low-band tradeoff The low-band frequencies were low-hanging fruit for most carriers to start their 5G deployments. They already had the necessary spectrum licenses from the FCC and at least some compatible radio equipment and towers in place.
More significantly, though, the low-band spectrum allowed the carriers to deploy 5G across a much wider range. Lower frequencies travel farther and aren’t nearly as prone to interference from things like buildings and trees.
Unfortunately, the tradeoff was that these frequencies didn’t offer a significant speed advantage over the 4G/LTE networks already in place.
In the same way that a multi-band Wi-Fi router offers an extended range with slower speeds on the 2.4GHz band than on the 5GHz band, cellular signals in the 600MHz and 850MHz range can travel great distances, but they aren’t very fast.
This strategy allowed T-Mobile to be the first carrier to get a Nationwide 5G network up and running across all 50 states. These 600MHz signals could travel a long distance, allowing T-Mobile to cover substantially more territory with fewer towers. However, as an OpenSignal report from early 2020 showed, the speeds weren’t dramatically better than T-Mobile’s 4G/LTE network.
OpenSignal Meanwhile, carriers in other countries like South Korea had chosen to use midband spectrum for their 5G deployments, boasting more impressive numbers, while Verizon topped the charts thanks to its use of mmWave.
 However, it’s also important to note that Verizon’s 500Mbps speeds were only available to 0.4% of its customers. Sprint also showed better numbers thanks to its midband 2.5GHz spectrum.
Verizon came late to the party, but it also eventually deployed a low-band nationwide 5G network in late 2020 to bring 5G to the other 99% of its customers. For its low-band 5G, Verizon chose the 850MHz, 1.9GHz, and 1.7-2.1GHz bands.
Sharing the airwaves The problem wasn’t just the lower frequencies that AT&T and T-Mobile were using. Since 5G technology is more advanced than 4G/LTE, it should perform faster even at 600MHz and 850MHz.
However, when AT&T and T-Mobile deployed 5G on these frequencies, they couldn’t just turn off the 4G/LTE services that were already running there. They had to find a way to make 5G peacefully coexist with these older wireless technologies.
So, they turned to a technology known as Dynamic Spectrum Sharing (DSS), a feature of 5G that was explicitly designed to let it work alongside 4G/LTE on the same frequencies. In straightforward terms, DSS allows 5G data to be inserted into any unused gaps in 4G/LTE transmissions.
Using DSS allowed 5G deployments to roll out much more quickly by taking advantage of unused 4G/LTE capacity, but it also had one huge downside. DSS is a 5G feature, so 5G signals knew how to share the airwaves with 4G/LTE signals, but LTE had never been taught how to share.
Hence, DSS 5G is forced to yield right of way to 4G/LTE signals, which always get priority. On a busy or congested 4G/LTE network, the 5G performance suffers.
On Verizon, the results of DSS were so bad that PCMag’s Sascha Segan told Verizon iPhone users to turn off 5G , dubbing DSS a “desperately slow system” after tests revealed that the carrier’s DSS 5G was almost never faster than 4G, and was actually slower in major cities like New York and Chicago.
The fallback spectrum Sadly, the problem is that carriers want to push the perception of offering 5G. They want folks to see the “5G” icon light up on their smartphones, even if it doesn’t provide performance that’s any better than the 4G/LTE network. Consider the stunt AT&T pulled a few years ago with its “5G Evolution” network , giving its customers a “5G E” icon for its slightly improved 4G/LTE network.
Leaving AT&T’s silliness aside, seeing a “5G” on your phone usually does mean you’re connected to an actual 5G network. However, it doesn’t mean you’ll see impressive 5G speeds. If you’re using low-band 5G frequencies, you’ll get low-band 5G speeds that usually won’t be much better than using 4G/LTE.
Adam Doud / Digital Trends Nevertheless, even as carriers deploy faster networks using midband and C-band spectrum , there will always be a place for low-band 5G. With the extensive range offered by the 600MHz-850MHz spectrum, it’s these frequencies that carriers will continue to rely on for covering less populated areas. It’s simply not worth putting up dozens of new towers to cover a relatively small number of customers.
Carriers used a similar strategy even in the GSM days. In Canada, 1.9GHz was used exclusively in major urban centers, while 850MHz was used for rural coverage. Frequency licensing issues prevented this approach from being used as extensively in the United States. However, carriers still leaned toward using higher frequencies in cities and lower frequencies in the countryside wherever possible.
Now that carriers have reasonably large swaths of midband spectrum to play with, 5G deployments are falling along even more dramatic lines. Most 5G customers will be covered by the midband spectrum, with faster and higher-capacity mmWave deployed in dense areas where network congestion is a problem, such as stadiums and airports. Low-band 5G will effectively become the fallback spectrum to ensure that you still get 5G when there’s nothing better available.
The good news is that low-band 5G speeds should improve as more folks move to 5G smartphones and leave 4G/LTE technology behind, avoiding congestion problems as 5G DSS no longer has to yield as much space to older cellular technologies. Eventually, 4G/LTE will be decommissioned entirely, although we’ll probably have moved on to 6G by then.
Editors' Recommendations This new MediaTek chip is about to bring 5G to a lot more devices The best phone plans for one person in 2023: our 6 favorites How fast is 5G? What you need to know about 5G speeds The 5G speed race is over and T-Mobile has won Netgear’s new M6 Pro router lets you use fast 5G anywhere you go 5G AT&T Cellular Carriers T-Mobile Verizon Mobile Verizon plans to expand its faster 5G Ultra Wideband network to reach beyond urban and suburban centers later this year, helping to drive up performance for folks in rural areas and spearhead the growth of its fixed wireless access (FWA) broadband services.
Verizon CEO Hans Vestburg touched on these details this week in the company’s quarterly earnings call, where he lauded the rapid expansion of the carrier’s C-band coverage to reach 200 million people in just over a year “since we lit up the first site.” Mobile Each time a new analysis of mobile network performance gets published, it’s almost a given that we’ll see T-Mobile leading the pack in terms of delivering the fastest 5G speeds. After all, the “Un-carrier” had a massive lead in deploying its 5G networks — and it hasn’t been resting on its laurels.
However, its competitors haven’t been sitting still either. While Verizon may have been starting from behind, it’s been aggressively deploying the faster 5G spectrum that gave it a nice leap in 5G performance last year. Still, Verizon and AT&T are lagging quite a bit in overall mobile network performance, and AT&T has fallen even farther behind when it comes to delivering the best 5G speeds across the nation.
Mobile Motorola may be making a play for the flagship market with the Motorola Edge 40 Pro, but budget phones are what the American monolith is best known for. While it won't be making as many waves as the latest Samsung phone or Apple iPhone launch, the newest iteration of the Moto G is always something worth paying attention to, as Motorola is a true veteran of the space and knows what makes an excellent cheap device.
Best of all, this new Moto G comes at a time when budget phone enthusiasts have never had it so good. Previously premium features are filtering down into lower-priced devices, without altering that sweet low price or the features everyone loves. That's exactly what's happening with the new Motorola Moto G Power 5G, which includes a 50-megapixel main camera lens, a larger amount of storage, and a big screen with a 120Hz refresh rate. With the big 5,000mAh battery the G Power range is known for, this could be the $300 phone to grab if you love a budget bargain.
Super-smooth motion Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
