Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Phones Best Tablets Tesla Phone Download Android 14 Best Android Phones Home Mobile Features When did 5G come out? The long, complicated history of its release By Jesse Hollington Close Although 2022 will likely be heralded as the year 5G truly went mainstream, we’ve traveled a long and winding road to get here. Carriers began actively working on preparing this leading-edge cellular tech as early as 2015, but it wasn’t until the end of 2018 that the first 5G mobile towers came online. It also took until 2020 before 5G was much more than a curiosity for early adopters.
The humble beginnings of 5G Expanding 5G across the nation The first 5G smartphones T-Mobile takes the lead Carving up the airwaves C-band changes the game The 5G landscape today Although previous cellular technologies like 4G/LTE also spent a long time in the research and development stages, those didn’t experience nearly the same growing pains that 5G has. When 4G/LTE services began rolling out broadly in 2011, it was the same basic technology across all the major U.S. carriers.
Miquel Benitez/Getty Images Things have been considerably more complicated with 5G. Since the newer technology promises the kind of performance previously exclusive to wired broadband services, it comes with more demanding requirements and runs over a much wider range of frequencies.
This has made deploying 5G somewhat more challenging as carriers try to find more radio spectrum to carry the best 5G signals. They also need to keep their 4G/LTE networks running at peak performance while sharing the airwaves with new 5G services.
Have an Android phone? You can get unlimited 5G service for free T-Mobile’s huge lead in 5G speeds isn’t going anywhere Netgear’s new M6 Pro router lets you use fast 5G anywhere you go The humble beginnings of 5G Many folks don’t know that the first 5G deployments in the United States weren’t for mobile devices at all. In 2017, the carriers began trialing fixed wireless 5G services as a replacement for wired broadband home internet. Closed trials of 5G home internet ran well into 2018 before becoming commercially available later that same year.
It wasn’t until early 2019 that the first 5G mobile networks rolled out.
Verizon led the way in April with a relatively small 5G footprint in core areas of Chicago and Minneapolis, arguably beating out three South Korean carriers to become the first commercial 5G smartphone service on the planet.
TCL Verizon expanded its service to several other cities throughout 2019, including Denver, Providence, St. Paul, Atlanta, Detroit, Indianapolis, Washington, D.C., Phoenix, Panama City, New York City, Dallas, Omaha, Houston, and Boston.
The carrier had all these cities under its belt before rivals T-Mobile and AT&T turned the switch on their own 5G networks, but there was a big catch. As a result of Verizon’s use of the extremely high frequency (EHF) — and extremely short range — millimeter wave (mmWave) spectrum , 5G service in each of these cities was confined to very small and specific areas. Stray more than a block away from a 5G zone, and you would quickly find yourself back on the carrier’s standard 4G/LTE service.
The upside is that if you were near one of these rare mmWave 5G towers, you could experience phenomenal speeds. It wasn’t uncommon to see speeds in the 500 to 1,000Mbps (1Gbps) range.
Sprint had also begun dipping its toes into 5G in early 2019 , using the mid-band 2.5GHz spectrum that was already carrying its 4G/LTE traffic. Those deployments were relatively short-lived, though, as a year later, it would find itself folded into the new T-Mobile , which had other plans for that spectrum.
Expanding 5G across the nation While Verizon focused on delivering the fastest possible 5G speeds to tiny areas, AT&T and T-Mobile were working instead on building more expansive 5G networks using low-band frequencies that could travel much greater distances.
Both carriers turned on their larger 5G networks in December 2019, with T-Mobile claiming its network covered 200 million people out of the gate , while AT&T only promised coverage for “tens of millions” of its customers. This isn’t to be confused with AT&T’s 5G Evolution (5GE) network , which launched in 2018 but was really just a misleading name for its advanced 4G/LTE services.
Dish Wireless The two carriers used different pieces of the low-band spectrum , with AT&T using higher frequency signals that were paired with its 4G/LTE network in key cities — only about 15 during its initial launch — while T-Mobile piggybacked on its 600MHz spectrum that was already covering vast swaths of the countryside. By mid-2020, T-Mobile was able to leverage that spectrum to boast 5G coverage in all 50 states, including Alaska.
Verizon didn’t join the nationwide 5G party until late 2020 when it rebranded its mmWave 5G service as its 5G Ultra Wideband (5G UW) network. It did this to make room for a new 5G Nationwide offering that it said would deliver 5G to 200 million more people throughout 1,800 towns and cities across the nation.
The first 5G smartphones The earliest 5G deployments were exciting but a bit premature — especially Verizon’s. When the first mmWave cells went live in Chicago, there were barely any handsets that supported 5G at all — much less the mmWave flavor of 5G that Verizon used.
In fact, the only compatible handset on the market at the time of that initial 5G launch was Motorola’s midrange Moto Z3 , which was sold exclusively on the Verizon network. It also required a separate Moto Mod add-on module to provide 5G compatibility.
Julian Chokkattu/Digital Trends The Moto Z3/Moto Mod solution was a strange arrangement, but fortunately, 5G enthusiasts didn’t have to wait long for more options.
Samsung’s Galaxy S10 5G and LG’s V50 ThinQ came along in May, followed by the Huawei Mate X , OnePlus Pro 7 5G , Xiaomi Mi Mix 3 5G , and ZTE Axon 10 Pro 5G.
Those early 5G smartphones also had another critical catch. In 2019, Verizon and Sprint were offering 5G services but doing so on different frequencies. Early 5G smartphones like LG’s V50 ThinQ and the OnePlus Pro 7 5G couldn’t pack in all the necessary frequencies for both carriers, so they were sold in two different versions on each carrier. This meant many early Verizon 5G phones wouldn’t work on Sprint and vice-versa.
Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Meanwhile, Apple released its iPhone 11 lineup in 2019 with no 5G support at all. The message from Cupertino was clear: 5G wasn’t a big enough deal yet to warrant its inclusion in Apple’s flagship smartphone lineup.
That’s a fair assessment since Apple builds its products for the masses, and 5G was available to less than 5% of U.S. consumers in September 2019. That had changed significantly by the time the iPhone 12 was released a year later, and 5G has been standard on every iPhone since with support for every 5G band from T-Mobile’s 600MHz low-band to AT&T’s 39GHz mmWave in every U.S. model save the lower-cost iPhone SE.
T-Mobile takes the lead By November 2019, Verizon had 5G coverage in small areas of 16 U.S. cities, and Sprint claimed around 16 million people under its 5G umbrella.
So it’s easy to appreciate how big of a deal it was when T-Mobile flipped the switch on its nationwide 5G network on December 2 , promising 5G service to 200 million people in more than 5,000 cities and towns across the U.S. In one fell swoop, the carrier had just increased 5G availability tenfold.
Alex Tai/SOPA Images / LightRocket via Getty Images While Verizon still offered significantly faster speeds, that didn’t matter to 99% of its customers since they were stuck on the carrier’s 4G network. In those early days, T-Mobile’s initial 5G network wasn’t much faster than its 4G/LTE network, but it also wasted no time making dramatic improvements.
First off, T-Mobile worked to build a “standalone” 5G network — one that wouldn’t rely on sharing the airwaves with older 4G/LTE traffic. This allowed it to make the most of its low-band 600MHz 5G spectrum by dedicating towers to carrying only 5G traffic.
In April 2020, T-Mobile also completed its merger with Sprint and quickly began decommissioning the other carrier’s 2.5GHz towers to make room for what would become its 5G Ultra Capacity (5G UC) network.
 This mid-band 5G spectrum sits in the sweet spot, offering the best combination of range and speed, and by the end of 2021, T-Mobile had extended this coverage to over 200 million people across the country.
Carving up the airwaves While T-Mobile was busy at work building out its midrange 2.5GHz network, its rivals were left at a disadvantage. Neither AT&T nor Verizon had any mid-band spectrum available to them at that time, so they were forced to stay on the low-end.
AT&T continued slowly rolling out its low-band 5G network while deploying a faster 5G Plus (5G+) mmWave network in dense urban areas. While Verizon had started from the opposite end with its 2019 mmWave deployments, in late 2020, it switched on its low-band 5G Nationwide network to bring 5G to the majority of its customers.
Apple Unfortunately, since these extended 5G networks relied on the same frequencies used by the carriers’ 4G/LTE services, customers got little more than the privilege of seeing a 5G symbol appear on their smartphones. Actual download speeds were rarely any better than 4G/LTE and, in some cases, were slower, as 4G/LTE traffic always had priority on those airwaves.
C-band changes the game T-Mobile’s 2.5GHz spectrum gave it a massive head start on deploying a faster 5G network, but the other carriers weren’t about to be left behind. In early 2021, the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) put a chunk of C-band spectrum up for auction in the 3.7–3.98GHz range.
Verizon was quick to gobble up as much of that as it could, paying a record $45 .4 billion in the auction. AT&T spent $23 billion to secure its piece, and T-Mobile dropped $9.3 billion for a smaller portion that would be used to augment its existing 2.5GHz Ultra Capacity network.
However, this new spectrum was much more valuable to Verizon and AT&T since it finally let them play in the mid-band club. Better yet, these higher frequencies potentially offer even greater capacity than T-Mobile’s 2.5GHz spectrum, albeit at slightly shorter ranges.
Verizon Following a heated controversy with the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) and the airline industry over whether these signals would interfere with aircraft instruments, AT&T and Verizon finally got the green light to switch on their C-band spectrum in January 2022.
Customers saw marked performance improvements right out of the gate. This was especially true for those on Verizon since the carrier immediately rolled out the new C-band spectrum to 100 million people in 1,700 cities. By comparison, AT&T limited its initial C-band rollouts to only eight urban centers, preferring to defer a wider C-band rollout until later this year when it can take advantage of some less controversial 3.45–3.55GHz C-band spectrum it acquired in a later auction.
The 5G landscape today While T-Mobile still holds a commanding lead , this is due mainly to the big head start it had in rolling out its midrange coverage in the first place. A study comparing 5G enhanced services on equal footing shows that T-Mobile and Verizon customers get roughly the same performance when using their carriers’ best 5G networks — the mid-band ones.
However, the much broader coverage of T-Mobile’s 5G Ultra Capacity network means more customers will experience its fastest download speeds, pushing up the nationwide median compared to Verizon. It’s fair to say these numbers will get more balanced as Verizon expands its 5G Ultra Wideband coverage to more cities.
Similarly, AT&T remains in last place as it’s taking a much more measured approach to its 5G rollouts, but that will also change once it starts switching on more 5G Plus sites later this year, and it should be more of a contender by 2023.
The good news is that this year we’ve moved past most of the challenges from the early days of 5G. Today, all three nationwide carriers have mature 5G networks that leverage all three frequency ranges — low-band in rural areas, mid-band in most cities, and mmWave in dense urban locations — to provide the best possible 5G service. The question is no longer about whether a given carrier provides better 5G service than its rivals — T-Mobile’s 5G UC, Verizon’s 5G UW, or AT&T’s 5G+ are all neck-in-neck for performance — but simply if those fastest 5G networks are available where you live and work.
Editors' Recommendations This new MediaTek chip is about to bring 5G to a lot more devices T-Mobile still has the fastest 5G, but its rivals are catching up The 5G speed race is over and T-Mobile has won Live in a rural area? Verizon 5G is about to get better for you T-Mobile’s 5G is still unmatched — but have speeds plateaued? 5G AT&T Cellular Carriers Features T-Mobile Verizon Mobile If you’ve been on the fence about picking up one of the latest Galaxy S23 phones, some new research from Ookla may help tip the scales in Samsung’s favor.
In a new speed test report, Ookla tcompared the 5G performance specs of the Galaxy S23 models to last year’s Galaxy S22 in several countries — with some surprising results across the board.
A worthwhile 5G upgrade Mobile T-Mobile continues to command a massive lead in offering the best 5G experience among U.S. carriers. A few weeks ago, a report from Ookla revealed that T-Mobile is leaving its rivals in the dust; now Opensignal has confirmed that not only is the Un-carrier’s lead increasing in raw speeds, but it’s leading the way in taking 5G into the mainstream.
According to Opensignal’s latest 5G Experience Report, T-Mobile not only offers the fastest 5G experience in the U.S. by a sizeable margin but on average, customers on T-Mobile spend nearly 50% of their time on the carrier’s 5G network.
Reaching for the best 5G coverage Mobile Ookla has just published its latest market report revealing where U.S. mobile carriers and smartphone manufacturers stand in terms of providing the best 5G and 4G/LTE services.
Not surprisingly, T-Mobile remained in the top spot during the fourth quarter of 2022, eclipsing its rivals when it comes to median download speeds. What may be more surprising is that T-Mobile has increased its lead, clocking in at 151.37Mbps overall and 216.56Mbps for 5G, breaking the 200Mbps barrier for median 5G speeds across all bands for the first time.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
