Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Phones Best Tablets Tesla Phone Download Android 14 Best Android Phones Home News The wildest 5G conspiracy theories explained — and debunked By Christian de Looper Close What is 5G? It will take some time before it truly impacts our lives, but the next-gen mobile network is here whether people are ready for it or not. Carriers have deployed their nationwide 5G network coverage , and are in the middle of expanding the rollout. But, as with many major breakthroughs, the new cellular technology has spawned a set of conspiracy theories, including everything ranging from the idea that 5G can cause cancer to the claim that it causes the coronavirus.
The physics of 5G Did 5G cause the coronavirus pandemic? Is 5G helping to spread the coronavirus? Can 5G cause cancer? Did a 5G tower cause the death of hundreds of birds? Can 5G be used to control the weather? Can 5G be used for mind control? Do these theories about 5G dangers have any validity behind them? And where did they come from in the first place? We did some digging to debunk even the wildest conspiracy theory surrounding 5G.
The physics of 5G Before diving into 5G conspiracy theories, it’s important to note that 5G refers to a number of different 5G technologies.
 For starters, 5G , which is technically just the 5th-generation of wireless technology, can span a range of frequencies. There are low-band radio frequencies, which offer a relatively slow internet connection but can travel longer distances. At the other end of the spectrum, there are high-band frequencies, or millimeter-wave frequencies. Connections on mmWave are much faster, but they struggle to get through obstacles and can’t travel long distances. Midband frequencies, as you would expect, offer medium-speed connections at medium distances.
Motorola’s 5G neckband can power lightweight XR glasses OnePlus Nord CE 2 5G has 65W charging, coming on February 17 TCL’s 30V 5G is coming to Verizon for $300 Did 5G cause the coronavirus pandemic? One theory that has been relatively prominent over the past year or so is that 5G could be the cause of the coronavirus pandemic. According to the theory, both the rollout of 5G and the first cases of the coronavirus happened around the same time in late 2019.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Putting aside the fact that 5G actually started rolling out in 2018, this theory stems from linking the fact that the coronavirus was first discovered in Wuhan, China, and that 5G was being rolled out in China.
There are a number of other ways in which this conspiracy theory is wrong. For starters, while China did start rolling out 5G around that time, 5G actually started getting deployed in South Korea and parts of the U.S. before that. In other words, if coronavirus was caused by 5G , then we would have seen the virus in other parts of the world first.
Of course, that’s setting aside the very nature of viruses and the fact that radio waves have no impact on a virus’ development. As we know, the coronavirus spreads largely through droplets generated when someone sneezes or coughs. These droplets can exist on surfaces for a matter of hours, and can even hang in the air for up to a few minutes after someone sneezes.
Radio waves, however, are a form of electromagnetic wave. No droplets involved. In fact, while radio waves can travel through water, it’s actually harder for them to do so than through air.
Radio waves, however, are a form of electromagnetic wave. No droplets involved.
Now, areas with high infection rates of coronavirus may have been the same as areas with 5G — but if that’s true, it’s only because carriers targeted deploying their networks in highly populated metro areas first. Highly populated areas, where people are closer to each other, also happen to make the spread of a virus easier.
Last but not least is the fact that at the time, China wasn’t using mmWaves for its 5G networks just yet — it was only using sub-6 GHz waves, which fall in the low-band and midband spectrums. These radio waves, however, have been used for other things for years — all 4G towers use frequencies in this range, they’ve just been repurposed for 5G.
Is 5G helping to spread the coronavirus? There is, however, a slightly toned-down version of the theory that coronavirus and 5G are linked. It maintains that while 5G didn’t cause coronavirus in the first place, it does impact the immune system, potentially worsening symptoms and speeding up the spread of the virus.
Now, it’s important to note that in extreme amounts, radio waves can cause heating, and your immune system might have trouble operating were you to heat up too much. In fact, that’s how microwaves operate.
The radio waves emitted by cell towers are nowhere near as high as they would need to be to cause any health issues.
There’s just one problem: The radio waves emitted by cell towers are nowhere near as high as they would need to be to cause any health issues.
At extremely high frequencies, electromagnetic waves could potentially cause health issues. But the waves emitted by 5G towers aren’t just lower than that — they’re way lower. A number of scientific studies have been conducted on the link between non-ionizing waves — which are used for TV transmissions, and yes, 5G — and human health. Some organizations suggest that more research needs to be conducted, but at this point in time there is no reliable evidence proving 5G waves can impact the human immune system.
So don’t listen to YouTube on this one. Head to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention or World Health Organization websites for real advice on how to stop the spread of coronavirus.
Can 5G cause cancer? Theories about 5G causing cancer have been around for a few years now, and it likely stems from the use of the word “radiation.” All radio waves “radiate,” but that doesn’t necessarily mean that they have a negative impact on human health.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Only the upper end of the electromagnetic spectrum, which includes X-rays and gamma radiation, is “ionizing,” which essentially means that they can break apart molecular bonds and damage DNA. The rest of the spectrum is what’s called “non-ionizing,” meaning these waves have wavelengths that are too long to be able to actually damage human cells. Even the highest of 5G waves are far below the boundaries between ionizing and non-ionizing waves.
There’s real-world data on the impact of radio waves on cancer, too. We’ve had waves in similar frequency ranges to 5G for decades — and few studies have linked the use of these waves with an increase in cancer rates.
Did a 5G tower cause the death of hundreds of birds? RJ Sangosti/Getty Wait — but didn’t a 5G network cause a flock of hundreds of birds to die? Well, no. A post has made the rounds on social media linking the deaths of hundreds of birds in The Hague, Netherlands, to 5G tests. While it is true that a series of mysterious bird deaths was reported, no 5G tests were being conducted nearby at the time, Snopes reported.
Can 5G be used to control the weather? I wish. If 5G could control the weather, we could have always sunny days. Or, even better, we could limit the impact of climate change.
The root of this theory comes from the idea that the government is using the High-frequency Active Auroral Research Program, or HAARP to control the weather. HAARP is a facility that was built to study the ionosphere, and it’s located in Alaska. Soon after completing the project, however, the government shut down the facility and transferred its ownership to the University of Alaska.
But what does that have to do with 5G? Well, according to those who believe in this theory, the ionosphere is where so-called “ 5G satellites” are. The only problem is, 5G is more of a terrestrial standard at this point, and while satellites could theoretically eventually be used for 5G connectivity, satellites currently have too long a latency and aren’t being used for 5G.
Can 5G be used for mind control? This is one of the more far-out theories out there — and again, it’s untrue. As mentioned, 5G waves have had no observable effect on human health at all, so 5G alone can’t be used to physically control people’s minds.
In some cases, this theory has other components to it — namely that 5G is used to control tiny robots that are injected into the body through vaccines. As sci-fi as that might sound, this one is also false: No one has mind-controlling mini-robots. Yet.
Editors' Recommendations TCL’s new routers give you 5G speeds at home and on the go Samsung and Amdocs deploy private 5G at Howard University Moto G Stylus 2022 launches with better cameras and display AT&T begins C-band 5G rollout today amid ongoing controversy Verizon’s 5G Ultra Wideband comes with home internet options Mobile 5G Coronavirus: How COVID-19 is changing the way we live Mobile UPDATE: AT&T and Verizon have announced a delay to Wednesday's planned activation of 5G towers around certain airports in response to safety concerns raised by airline chiefs, and to avert major disruption to flight schedules. But for some airlines -- mainly those flying to the U.S. from other countries -- the announcement came a little late.
Fears of "catastrophic disruption" to flight schedules in the U.S. seem to be coming true after a number of airlines suspended their flights to the U.S. following AT&T and Verizon's plans to switch on their new C-Band 5G networks starting Wednesday, January 19. The suspension, at the moment, seems to only affect routes serviced by the Boeing 777 aircraft, with four major international carriers issuing statements confirming the same.
News Apple is reportedly eyeing an early 2022 release for the fifth-generation iPad Air, with some attractive upgrades such as 5G support and faster silicon at its heart. As per a report from Japanese blog Macotakara that cites reliable sources, the iPad Air 5 might arrive alongside the iPhone SE refresh in spring 2022.
Let’s start with the unsurprisingly disappointing part first. The iPad Air 5 is said to carry the same design as its predecessor that hit the shelves late in 2020. It arrived with an iPad Pro-esque design makeover back then. And given Apple’s love for using the same fundamental design for at least a couple of generations, an unchanged aesthetic profile for the upcoming iPad Air 5 is not at all shocking. But hey, at least buyers won’t be limited to boring shades like gray or silver, if the previous iPad Air is anything to go by. However, it’s unclear if Apple is adding any shades to the mix this year.
Same looks, meaningful improvements Mobile Ookla has just released its fourth-quarter market report, revealing the fastest 5G and broadband providers in the U.S., and once again, it looks like T-Mobile has taken the crown for the fastest and most consistent 5G speeds in the U.S.
The wireless carrier isn’t sitting still, however, as Ookla’s latest report shows a significant increase in its Speed Score from its last report for Q3 2021, gaining 20 points overall to bring its Q4 2021 score up to 201.10, from 178.38 last quarter.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
