Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending in Computing: Best Dell Laptops ChatGPT Best Monitors Asus ROG Azoth Review How to delete a page in Word in 3 easy steps RTX 4080 vs RTX 4070 Ti Best Mac Apps AMD vs Intel Recall an Email in Outlook Home Computing Products Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? The best mouse for Mac for 2023 By Tyler Lacoma Close There are a lot of great mice out there, but picking the best one for you and your Mac can be a challenge. It very much depends on what you want to do with it — after all, some are great for carrying out various macOS gestures , while others excel when it comes to sensitivity and ergonomics.
The best mouse will pair ergonomic handling with precision and a satisfying click. While the Logitech MX Master 3 is our pick for the best overall mouse since it has an excellent design, we have gathered some other options for those needing more mobile mice or more budget-friendly options.
Save on everything from laptops and tablets, to coffee makers and air purifiers, and a whole host of Apple tech like iPad, Apple Watch and even the latest M3 MacBooks, as well as smart home essentials like the Amazon Echo and smart bulbs.
More More More Image used with permission by copyright holder Logitech MX Master 3 The best all-around mouse for the Mac Can be used with multiple PCs simultaneously Plenty of customization Comfortable redesign thumb-rest USB-C charging Keyboard includes backlighting The mouse is not for lefties Logitech's MX Master 3 is among the best mice for Mac, and now Logitech has released a version just for the Mac.
 This comes with improved Bluetooth performance and a Space Gray color compared to the regular MX Master 3 wireless mouse. It charges via USB-C and can last 70 days on a full charge.
Aside from those Mac-specific features, you get a MagSpeed wheel that can automatically switch between accurate ratchet clicking and fast, free-flowing scrolling. The latter is ideal for zooming through long web pages or lengthy documents. As well as that, there's a built-in gesture-control button at the bottom of the thumb rest. While this is pressed, you can swipe your mouse in the same way you would on a trackpad to perform native macOS gestures.
 It's a very clever way to work your way around your Mac.
The MX Master 3 for Mac is also distinctive for its comfortable and ergonomic design, and it’s can be used across multiple computers and operating systems thanks to Logitech's Flow app. This works like Apple's Universal Control feature in macOS Monterey , with the added benefit of even working between macOS and Windows.
Its $100 price is very fair for what it offers, making it clear why it is so popular and one of our favorite mice for any platform. The Mac version is the ultimate wireless mouse for just about any Mac user, whether you spend all day in creative workflows, coding, or everyday web and document browsing.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Logitech G Pro X Superlight A great gaming mouse 25% lighter than the original G Pro 25,600 DPI Hero sensor Reduced friction thanks to PTFE feet Expensive The Logitech G Pro X Superlight is the successor to Logitech's impressive G Pro wireless mouse. The Pro X uses the same Lightspeed technology for a snappy and reliable wireless connection, and the Hero Sensor has been improved to 25,600 DPI.
That makes this mouse an excellent solution for gamers looking for the smoothest and most accurate experience. Its minimalist design also lets the mouse blend into an office environment, so it can be used for work and play.
The G Pro was already a light mouse, but the G Pro X Superlight is even lighter at 63 grams. That makes it one of the lightest mice around. If you're looking for something sleek and lightweight, the Logitech G Pro X Superlight is the best solution for you.
More Image used with permission by copyright holder Logitech M720 Triathlon A solid design that supports multiple platforms Affordable Eight buttons for mapping Excellent for switching between Mac and iPadOS DPI is low compared to other Logitech options If you have multiple Apple devices and move around a lot, then you’ll want a mouse that can keep up not just on your Mac, but on anything you’re using. The aptly named Triathlon mouse from Logitech is up to the task, designed to work equally well on iMacs, MacBooks, and iPadOS, an ideal accessory for those who use Universal Control or similar solutions. Or you could use the dual connection options of Bluetooth and the USB “Unifying Receiver” which allows you to connect up to six Logitech-compatible peripherals.
Not only is this one of Logitech’s best designs yet, with a rubber body sculpted with a palm rest grip, but it includes eight total buttons for mapping and a mouse wheel with instant-stop and different modes for fast or slow scrolling. The battery is also a standout with up to two years of life on a single charge. Plus, it’s much less expensive than something like the MX Master 3 model, so you can save some money at the same time.
More Image used with permission by copyright holder Logitech MX Ergo And ergonomic mouse for less fatigue Comfortable grip Trackball reduces wrist movement Easy-switch button for quickly changing devices Not ambidextrous There are a lot of palm-friendly mice out there, but none compare to the Logitech MX Ergo ergonomic mouse. This wireless mouse has been designed entirely to improve comfort for long-term use. The mouse can be adjusted up to a 20-degree angle to help improve forearm comfort, and the rollerball locomotion makes it way more friendly for long-term wrist posture. You’ll feel the benefits right away and after many months of usage.
The MX Ergo is designed to minimize hand movement. Thanks to the trackball over the thumb area, there isn’t really a need to move your hand at all since it can be used to control the mouse pointer. It also has an easy-switch button beneath the scroll wheel to easily change which device you’re working on. That’s crucial if you’re switching between a laptop and a work Mac regularly.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Satechi M1 A great budget mouse Very affordable Blends well with Apple aesthetic Solid Bluetooth range Uncomfortable for users with large hands Satechi has gained a lot of traction over the past few years as a quality budget-oriented accessory company. The M1 wireless mouse is a perfect example of their lineup because of its clean and modern aesthetic and affordable price. It’s a Bluetooth mouse with a 32-foot range, and it comes in a variety of metallic colors, including gold and rose gold options.
It doesn’t have any special features, but at $30, it doesn’t really have to. It’s just a clean and straightforward wireless mouse for working professionals. It won’t be used for gaming, and there are better mice for creative workflows. However, for those who just need a simple mouse to get them through the day, the Satechi M1 is an excellent and affordable option.
More Image used with permission by copyright holder Apple Magic Mouse 2 Apple's premier mouse Supports swipe gestures Works flawlessly with macOS Premium look and feel Charging port on the bottom As you'd expect from a wireless mouse designed by Apple, the Magic Mouse 2 works perfectly with macOS' native gestures thanks to its surface essentially functioning as a built-in trackpad. With the flick or tap of your fingers, you can quickly scroll, zoom, and swipe in addition to switching full-screen apps and launching Mission Control.
As usual, we are impressed with Apple’s superb build quality, with the Magic Mouse 2 featuring materials such as aluminum for its bottom shell and glass for its top surface. The stand-alone model comes with silver sides and a white top surface, but if you get one with a new 24-inch iMac, the Magic Mouse will even come in a matching color (the same goes for the Magic Trackpad 2). Those colors include blue, green, pink, silver, yellow, orange, and purple.
Apple's Magic Mouse 2 features the questionable design choice of placing the charging port on the bottom of the unit, meaning you can’t use the mouse while you charge it. Its sides might also feel a little slippery, but if they do, you can get Magic Grips for the sides of the mouse that can make it a little more comfortable to use.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Apple Magic Trackpad 2 A portable solution for those who prefer touchpads Swipe gestures make it the perfect Mac companion Works with iPads as well Long battery life Expensive OK, so the Magic Trackpad 2 isn't a mouse, but it is an excellent pointing device, and we’d be doing a great disservice to our readers by not including it in our round-up. Apple has a reputation for having one of the best trackpad designs in the laptop world, and now you can enjoy that experience on your Mac desktop.
You’ll be able to use all the gestures you’re accustomed to on your laptop, making your desktop experience simple and pleasant. If you’re a Mac user who finds standard pointing devices awkward, the Magic Trackpad 2 is a terrific alternative, making it one of our top choices.
The Magic Trackpad 2 uses Apple’s Force Click technology, the same used on the trackpad in the MacBook lineup. Lastly, this trackpad delivers the top-tier aesthetics for which Apple is known. It has an aluminum exterior and a seamless glass surface area and is available in classic silver or Space Gray. And as we said in the Magic Mouse 2 section, if you buy a trackpad with an iMac, you'll be able to get it in one of seven colors, including blue, green, pink, silver, yellow, orange, and purple.
Frequently Asked Questions Though there are plenty of wireless mice to choose from if you're a Mac user, you'll want to pay attention to how you'll need to recharge your mouse when the battery dies. If you're a minimalist and don't want to carry a ton of charging cables with you when you're traveling, you'll need to choose a mouse that can recharge with the same charging cable as the peripherals that you will want to take with you. Fortunately, most wireless mice today have a long battery life, and you can often go months between charges.
Most modern mice can be recharged with a USB-C cable, which makes them perfect for Mac users, as Apple's line of laptops relies on the same USB-C cable for charging. By choosing a mouse with a USB-C cable, you won't need to carry a separate cable to recharge your mouse. If you're an iPhone user, Apple's line of first-party mice and trackpads connect with a Lightning cable for charging. Unless you have some adapters, you will probably want to stay away from older mice that recharge with micro USB cables.
Given that Apple has added mouse support to its iPad, you may not want to have a separate mouse for your tablet and for your Mac. A number of modern mice can support two or three devices, making it convenient to share the same mouse across your Mac, iPad, and even a second computer in the home.
These mice come with a switch, usually on the bottom, where you can switch between devices. The advantage of being able to switch between devices is that you won't need to re-pair the mouse every time you move from your iPad to a Mac or from a Mac to your iPad. Having a mouse that supports three devices will be useful for those who have a separate work computer to add to their setup of a Mac and iPad at home.
MacOS gestures are an important way for Mac and iPad users to interact with their devices, and having a mouse that supports this type of input can make your life easier, especially if you're used to using a trackpad on your MacBook. Mac users will have several options for devices that support gestures, including Apple's Magic Trackpad 2. The Magic Trackpad 2 is as close to the MacBook Pro's trackpad as you'll get on Apple's desktop, and it's the perfect companion for your iMac, Mac Pro, or even a MacBook Pro connected to a monitor.
The second option for those who want or need gestures is to find a mouse with a touchpad or touch-sensitive controller built into the surface of the peripheral. There are a few mice that have a touchpad integrated onto the top surface. This gives you the flexibility of using a mouse — rather than a trackpad — but you'll also have access to the same gestures for input. Apple's Magic Mouse 2 is a good candidate, but so is the Logitech MX Master 3 for Mac. This custom design of Logitech's popular MX Master 3 wireless mouse includes a gesture-control button on the thumb rest. Press this button, and you can swipe your mouse to perform native macOS gestures. It's a very clever solution.
It's very easy. With a wireless mouse, you head to the Bluetooth section in System Preferences , then turn your wireless mouse on and wait for it to pair. For a wired mouse, just plug it in. Your Mac should be able to detect the mouse and do the rest.
Go to System Preferences , then select Mouse.
 Here you will find the ability to change tracking and scrolling speed, double-click speed, and other features. Settings may vary based on the type of mouse that you are using. MacOS does not allow direct remapping of buttons for models like Logitech mice, but third-party software may be able to help, like the Mac version of Logitech's Options software.
The type of mouse you use isn't that important. As long as it can connect to your iPad and your Mac, you can use Universal Control features. However, you'll have to enable Universal Control in the Displays section of your Mac, and turn on Cursor and Keyboard in your iPad's AirPlay & Handoff section. Then you set up your devices side-by-side and "push" your cursor from one screen to the other.
Editors' Recommendations Best Mac Mini Black Friday deals: Mac Mini M2 and more The best wireless mouse for 2023: top wireless mice tested and compared The best MacBook Pro bags Programmable gaming keyboards are extremely cheap at Dell today Early Prime Day Deal: Save $20 on Logitech MX Master 2S Wireless Mouse Best Products Computing MacBooks are fantastic laptops for students, professionals and casual users. There are a wide variety of MacBooks, including some cheaper options and some very expensive options. Of course, all MacBooks come with the Apple price tag, so it's smart to buy a new one during Black Friday deals. You can also check out the Amazon Black Friday laptop deals and Best Buy Black Friday laptop deals for some great offers on Apple's devices, too. Amazon Black Friday deals especially include a lot of Apple offers. We've collected the best MacBook deals currently available from a wide variety of retailers. You'll find them below organized by style and chipset.
Best MacBook Air Black Friday deals The MacBook Air has been a favorite of students and casual users for many years. It started out as a more budget-friendly and portable option when compared to the Pro line, but it's gotten significantly more powerful over the years. We've found discounts on version that have the M1 chip and the M2 chip, so you can pick your power level. Amazon Black Friday laptop deals are currently the best places to search for cheap MacBook Airs, including new and refurbished units.
Computing With the big event coming up fast, we're spotting some early Black Friday deals already. There are some great Black Friday laptop deals, on gaming laptops in particular if you simply can't wait any longer to make a purchase. Don't forget to check out the Amazon Black Friday laptop deals for some gaming options, too. Below we've picked out some awesome Black Friday gaming laptop deals with something for nearly every budget and including all the biggest names in the field. These come straight from the manufacturer and from retailer sales, like general Best Buy Black Friday laptop deals and more specific Best Buy Black Friday gaming laptop deals. Let's guide you through the deals now.
Today's Best Black Friday Gaming Laptop Deals HP Victus 15 (Intel) -- $550, was $900 The HP Victus 15 is one of the cheapest gaming laptops in the market, but it still provides decent performance with the latest 13th-generation Intel Core i5 processor, Nvidia GeForce RTX 3050 graphics card, and 8GB of RAM. With these specifications, you can play today's most popular games, but you'll have to go with low to medium graphic settings for the more demanding titles. The gaming laptop is also equipped with a 15.6-inch Full HD screen with a 144Hz refresh rate, and a 512GB SSD with Windows 11 Home pre-loaded. Check out other HP laptop Black Friday deals and Amazon Black Friday deals if you're interested in more Victus options.
Computing Black Friday deals have brought with them some awesome laptop deals so you can save big on everything from a budget-priced Chromebook to a high-end gaming laptop. We'd be remiss if we didn't also mention the Amazon Black Friday laptop deals guide, there are a lot of good discounts on there, too. If you've been waiting to upgrade your current rig, this is your chance. There are so many options out there that we've picked out some of our favorites so you can easily find the right laptop for your needs and your budget. This list does not include Black Friday MacBook deals, so make sure you check those out too. Here's a look at all the highlights.
Top 3 Black Friday laptop deals HP 17-inch laptop -- $250, was $500 Currently heavily discounted as part of HP laptop Black Friday deals, the HP 17-inch laptop is ideal for anyone on a slim budget. It looks more expensive than it is thanks to having a 17-inch HD+ screen with 1600 x 900 and 250 nits of brightness. That extra room also means the keyboard is roomier with a numeric pad to the right of it that's ideal for entering a lot of data. The laptop has an AMD Athlon Gold 7220U processor along with 8GB of memory and 128GB of SSD storage. It also has a lift-hinge to ensure you can type at a more natural position.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
