Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix F1 Live Stream Stranger Things Season 5 Best New Movies Most Popular Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney+ UFC Live Stream Best Movies on Disney+ Home Entertainment Features Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? 5 things the MCU should do if they bring back the original Avengers By Anthony Orlando Close Following Marvel Studios’ recent slew of critical and commercial disappointments, Variety has reported that the studio is now considering featuring the six original Avengers in a future film. This would mean the Marvel Cinematic Universe would bring back Tony Stark and Natasha Romanoff, who had lost their lives during the events of Avengers: Endgame.
Have Tony Stark and Peter Parker reunite Have Captain America wield Thor’s hammer Mjölnir again Have Natasha and Yelena meet up again Have Thor team up with alternate Loki Make this reunion a one-time thing Comic books are no stranger to killing and reviving popular characters, and this trend has made its way into the movies. But after these two characters left the franchise on such a high note, it is possible bringing them back might do more harm than good. Despite this, should the MCU bring all these heroes back together, they should make the most of this opportunity and do these five things.
Have Tony Stark and Peter Parker reunite Sony / Sony Tony Stark spent some time in the MCU as Peter Parker’s mentor, providing him with the wisdom and hi-tech suits he needed to be the Friendly Neighborhood Spider-Man. This came to the point that people believed the latter was going to be the next Iron Man.
Want to know why the MCU stinks lately? We’ll tell you The 5 most powerful Iron Man villains, ranked from weakest to strongest The best MCU quotes, ranked However, Peter has grown quite a lot since Tony’s passing in Endgame and has forged a whole new identity as a humble, street-level hero without relying on Stark’s tech. It would be very touching for Tony to see how much Peter has changed after all this time, especially since he might be the only person who remembers Peter after he had everyone’s memory of him wiped in Spider-Man: No Way Home.
Have Captain America wield Thor’s hammer Mjölnir again Marvel Studios / Marvel Studios Fans completely lost it when they saw Captain America wield Thor’s hammer, using its divine power to battle the villainous Thanos in a true clash of titans.
Since Mjölnir briefly made Cap one of the universe’s strongest heroes, to have him wield it once more against the likes of Kang would make for an exciting follow-up film. If the MCU’s next big bad is supposed to be a threat to the whole Multiverse, Cap will need the power of the gods just to stand a chance.
Have Natasha and Yelena meet up again Marvel Studios / Marvel Studios Natasha and Yelena immediately became a popular sister duo in the former’s solo film, Black Widow , after they had spent decades apart from each other.
Though Yelena now mourns the loss of her adoptive sister, who had sacrificed herself to undo Thanos’s snap in Endgame , Nat’s possible revival could give these siblings the reunion they never got to have after Yelena vanished during the Blip. It would be a tearful moment, for sure, especially as Nat can see how her little sister has grown as she followed in her footsteps as a hero.
Have Thor team up with alternate Loki Disney+ / Disney+ Though Thor had to watch Loki meet his end at the hands of Thanos, a variant of his fallen brother was created in Endgame and has become much more heroic after being taken to the TVA. This alternate Loki is a far cry from the evil God of Mischief he was before, and he will undoubtedly be a crucial figure in defeating Kang in the next Multiversal War.
If Thor is to team up with the original Avengers one last time, he should also get the chance to see his brother again (albeit a much more mature version of him), as it could help him receive some closure after losing so many people in his life.
Make this reunion a one-time thing Marvel Studios / Marvel Studios It would be terrific to see the first six Avengers return to the big screen, but the original team disbanded for a reason. Actors like Robert Downey Jr., Chris Evans, and Scarlett Johansson had spent the better part of a decade playing superheroes with great success.
Nevertheless, they all seemed ready and content with moving on to greener pastures, so stepping back into their roles in the MCU for too long could still be a step backward for their careers. Fortunately, there are rumors that Secret Wars will softly reboot the entire MCU, so this team-up should give audiences a final farewell before a fresh lineup of actors takes their place in the franchise’s new timeline.
Editors' Recommendations Bringing back the original Avengers won’t save the MCU The 5 best comic book sequels ever, ranked The best MCU fights, ranked What are the top 5 highest-grossing MCU movies so far? 5 best directors to helm the MCU Fantastic Four film Comic Book Movies Features Marvel Entertainment Although Sony's 2002 hit film Spider-Man played a significant role in propelling superhero cinema into the mainstream, the studio's subsequent releases starring both Tobey Maguire and Andrew Garfield didn't quite catch on. Finally, after growing to its own dizzying heights, Marvel negotiated to bring Spider-Man into its own cinematic universe, casting Tom Holland as Peter Parker. With two hugely successful films, Spider-Man: Homecoming and Spider-Man: Far From Home, Sony and Marvel have shown that playing nice can have a huge payoff.
The two studios are on the verge of releasing the third Spider-Man film, which is due out on December 17, 2021, and is subtitled No Way Home. In February, star Tom Holland called Spider-Man: No Way Home "the most ambitious stand-alone superhero ever made," and given everything we've heard about it, it's not surprising. Here's everything we know about the upcoming film, including rumors about one of the most significant crossover events in the history of the MCU.
Entertainment In spite of months of denials from Tom Holland and just about anyone who's been within 100 feet of a Marvel movie or television production in the last two decades, it's looking at least possible that we'll be seeing The Amazing Spider-Man star Andrew Garfield and his Spider-Man predecessor Tobey Maguire appear as their own versions of Peter Parker in December's Spider-Man: No Way Home. At the very least, we know Holland's Parker will face off against Spider-Man villains from different universes, including Alfred Molina's Doctor Octopus and Jamie Foxx's Electro.
During the most recent Spider-Man: No Way Home trailer, Benedict Cumberbatch's Doctor Strange warns: "They're starting to come through -- and I can't stop them," which presumably refers to more characters from across Marvel's Multiverse.
Entertainment While it seemed like posturing at first, it’s looking increasingly likely that Sony’s threat to pull Spider-Man out of the Marvel Cinematic Universe (MCU) and keep the billion-dollar web-slinger for itself is all too real.
Sony just finished purchasing the gaming company that made the most recent Spider-Man game. The film studio was so high off the success of its animated Spider-Verse that Sony’s talking heads spoke of little else at CES 2019. Then there's the surprise success of the villainous spinoff, Venom -- all seem to have emboldened Sony when it comes to sharing its precious Spider-Man film rights with Disney’s ever-expanding MCU.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
