Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix F1 Live Stream Stranger Things Season 5 Best New Movies Most Popular Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney+ UFC Live Stream Best Movies on Disney+ Home Entertainment Reviews Blue Beetle review: a well-intentioned misfire By Alex Welch Close A charming, earnest lead performance A compelling, likable supporting cast Several moving family scenes Susan Sarandon's over-the-top performance Unimpressive lighting and cinematography CGI set pieces and superhero fight scenes fall flat The one thing you can’t say about Blue Beetle is that it doesn’t have heart. On the contrary, it’s practically overflowing with it. The film is among the most earnest comic book movies in recent memory, one that stands in stark opposition to the cynical, financial-driven interests of this summer’s other DC superhero blockbuster, The Flash.
 At no point throughout Blue Beetle does it feel like its director and cast are taking their audience’s time and interest for granted, nor does the film ever dip into the kind of commercial soullessness that has plagued the superhero genre for years now.
Unfortunately, none of this means Blue Beetle is good, either. In its best moments, the film feels like the kind of big-budget portrait of a modern, multigenerational Latino family that American moviegoers have rarely gotten the chance to see. At its worst, it feels like a well-intentioned, would-be family dramedy chained to the same frustratingly unbending formula followed by so many of the superhero films that have come before it. The movie that emerges from that unspoken conflict is one that feels simultaneously refreshing and mind-numbingly by the numbers.
Warner Bros. Pictures At the center of Blue Beetle is Jaime Reyes ( Cobra Kai star Xolo Maridueña), a college graduate who finds himself working thankless cleaning jobs with his younger sister, Milagro (Belissa Escobedo), in order to save their father, Alberto (a radiant Damián Alcázar), and the rest of their family from losing their home. When he subsequently steps into the middle of a conflict between Victoria Kord (Susan Sarandon), a mercenary billionaire businesswoman, and her well-meaning niece, Jenny (Bruna Marquezine), he gets an off-the-cuff job offer from the latter.
7 things the MCU should do in a revised Multiverse saga 7 best characters in Blue Beetle, ranked 5 best Blue Beetle stories, ranked His quest to follow up with Jenny, however, results in her temporarily entrusting him with an alien device known only as “the scarab.” When he eventually touches it at the behest of his family, he becomes biologically bonded to the scarab and granted access to its black-and-blue super suit, as well as its multitude of weapons and technological capabilities. His unexpected powers put not only himself, but also his entire family, on the radar of both Sarandon’s Victoria and her android henchman, Conrad Carapax (Raoul Max Trujillo), who believes it’s his destiny to bond with Jaime’s scarab. In typical superhero movie fashion, Jaime’s conflict with Victoria and Conrad leads to plenty of explosive, oversized physical and militaristic confrontations.
The film’s plot is, by and large, the weakest part of it. Despite running a full two hours, Blue Beetle struggles to cohesively bind its quieter, familial moments with its louder, considerably less interesting superhero elements. Its best and most vibrant action sequence comes early on, and it follows Maridueña’s Jaime as he’s suddenly physically and biologically bonded with an alien weapon of unbelievable power. The sequence, which begins with Jaime’s legitimately horrifying transformation and ends with him falling back through the roof of his childhood home, is Blue Beetle at its most carefree and playful. The set pieces that follow, however, fail to replicate its spirit and energy.
Warner Bros. Pictures By the time Blue Beetle has devolved, like so many superhero movies before it, into nothing more than endless shots of CGI models punching each other, it’s hard not to feel like the film has forgotten its best parts. Its climactic attempts to tie its rock-em-sock-em action beats back into its characters’ pasts and relationships are undeniably admirable, too, but they come across as clunky when jam-packed into fight scenes where they make little logical sense. While director Ángel Manuel Soto brings real grace and elegance to Blue Beetle ’s most intimate scenes, there are moments where Pawel Pogorzelski’s cinematography, whether by creative decision or budgetary restrictions, looks disappointingly flat and cheap.
These missteps prevent Blue Beetle from achieving the kind of visual splendor that could have helped lift up even its most clichéd action beats. The film’s comic book elements aren’t helped, either, by the fact that its two villains, Sarandon’s Victoria and Trujillo’s Carapax, frequently feel like one-note caricatures compared to the rest of Blue Beetle ’s characters. Sarandon’s antagonist, in particular, feels out of place, and the actress gives an over-the-top, uncalibrated performance that sticks out like a sore thumb in a film that strives to achieve a sense of emotional realism between its characters. In the end, Blue Beetle ’s straightforward superhero parts are so much weaker than everything else in it that they feel like they belong in a different movie altogether.
They certainly don’t fit in a film that frequently feels more lived-in and culturally specific than 99% of the Hollywood blockbusters that are made these days. Over the course of its 127-minute runtime, Blue Beetle goes out of its way to fully flesh out its central family, imbuing not only Jaime, but all of his loved ones, with shocking levels of emotional depth. Never before has a superhero’s family members felt as important on-screen as they do in Blue Beetle , which refuses to paint them just as the tragic figures in Jaime’s vigilante life. Here, his grandmother (a scene-stealing Adriana Barraza) and uncle (George Lopez, in fine form) are treated with just as much respect as Blue Beetle ’s eponymous hero.
Warner Bros. Pictures The authenticity that Soto and writer Gareth Dunnet-Alcocer bring to the Reyes family’s home life only makes Blue Beetle ’s inability to fully explore their world, city, and history all the more frustrating. Whenever it feels like the film has gotten into a real, emotionally-driven groove, it’s forced to insert an exposition dump or set piece that doesn’t pack nearly as much power as many of its one-on-one conversation scenes.
Blue Beetle , consequently, makes it clear that good intentions and an open heart can only take certain films so far.
It’s a movie that reaffirms, in case anyone still needed to be convinced, that Latino characters deserve to be given the same big-budget opportunities as everyone else. It also proves what can happen when a movie is only allowed to truly be itself for half of its runtime. Ultimately, it’s only half-successful, and the parts of Blue Beetle that work say just as much about the film itself as they do about the current state of the entertainment industry. If not even a movie as occasionally charming as Blue Beetle can breathe new life into the superhero genre’s most well-worn formulas, then it seems safe to say that the luster is definitely gone now.
Blue Beetle is now playing in theaters.
Editors' Recommendations The best MCU sequels, ranked The 10 darkest moments in the DCEU, ranked 3 reasons why Blue Beetle is the worst DCEU movie Is Blue Beetle streaming? Does Blue Beetle have a post-credits scene? Product Reviews Entertainment The bombastic feature films offered up by the DCEU have generated mixed results both critically and fiscally. Recently, films based on the comic book giant's properties haven't fared so well. Black Adam, Shazam! Fury of the Gods, and The Flash, which even had the added draw of Michael Keaton returning to the bat cowl, have all failed to reel in the masses and live up to the studio's expectations. As such, the trend doesn't bode well for young Jaime Reyes portrayed by Xolo Maridueña (Cobra Kai) as he dons the alien-originated Blue Beetle suit to save the day.
In the pages of DC's colorful comics, Blue Beetle has an incredibly vast history. While he isn't exactly a mainstream hero yet, at least not one that can stand against the likes of Wonder Woman, Superman, or Batman, that doesn't mean he along with other more obscure DC characters can't have some time in the spotlight. So, that begs the question: what other heroes on Blue Beetle's level deserve a cinematic adventure of their own? Booster Gold Entertainment 2023 is the year that Warner Bros. scheduled four different DC movies for theatrical release. So far, it's been a pretty rough year with Shazam! Fury of the Gods and The Flash both failing to live up to their respective box office expectations. Until Aquaman and the Lost Kingdom arrives in December, Blue Beetle is the best chance for DC to right its ship. But it's far too soon to say how casual fans will respond to this movie.
Cobra Kai's Xolo Maridueña stars in the film as Jaime Reyes, the young man who becomes Blue Beetle after a sentient alien Scarab known as Khaji-Da (Becky G) bonds with his body. Jenny Kord (Bruna Marquezine), the daughter of the previous Blue Beetle, Ted Kord, gave Jaime the Scarab to keep it away from her corrupt aunt, Victoria Kord (Susan Sarandon), and her right-hand man, Ignacio Carapax (Raoul Max Trujillo).
Entertainment The Flash actor Ezra Miller has been at the center of many shocking controversies in the past few years. Even though they have spent the last year seeking treatment for their mental health issues, many fans are still pushing for someone else to play the Fastest Man Alive going forward.
Given that James Gunn is going to reboot the DC Universe following The Flash, now seems like the perfect time to seamlessly introduce a new actor as the Scarlet Speedster. If the studio does decide to let Miller go, these five actors should be considered to play the new Flash.
George MacKay Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
