Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Netflix Original Movies Best Comedies on Netflix Best Netflix Original Series Best Anime on Netflix Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Fantasy Movies on Netflix Home Entertainment Reviews Blue Eye Samurai review: The best animated show of 2023 By Alex Welch Close Visually stunning animation throughout Shockingly sophisticated narrative risks in every episode Maya Erskine's transformative lead performance A few concerning late-season creative decisions A blunt-force approach to storytelling that is, at times, disappointing A lone warrior walks into a saloon. Slowly but surely, another loudmouth patron takes his belligerence so far that the warrior can no longer ignore it. There’s a standoff and a spray of blood and — stop me if you’ve heard all this before. Versions of this scene have been at the center of so many iconic Westerns and samurai films that there’s something admirable about how brazenly Blue Eye Samurai , Netflix’s new adult animated TV series from creators Amber Noizumi and Michael Green ( Blade Runner 2049 , Logan ), uses its own saloon face-off as the introduction to its tonally familiar, visually stunning world.
There’s something even more impressive about how confidently the scene is paced, edited, and stylistically rendered, but confidence is something Blue Eye Samurai has in spades. Throughout its frequently breathtaking 8-episode first season, the series pays endless homage to the works of Akira Kurosawa, Kihachi Okamoto, Sergio Leone, Clint Eastwood, and John Ford, and it does so without ever breaking a sweat. Like Quentin Tarantino’s Kill Bill Vol. 1 , it’s an unbridled triumph of pastiche entertainment.
The best movies and shows on Shudder right now (November 2023) The best anime on Netflix right now The best shows on Disney+ right now (October 2023) Anyone even remotely familiar with the samurai and Western genres has seen something like Blue Eye Samurai before, but that familiarity doesn’t lessen the show’s impact. On the contrary, it only heightens one’s admiration for how beautifully the series turns each of its recognizable beats and images into individual steps on a ceaseless, propulsive journey across 17th-century Japan. It’s a show that is, much like its protagonist, possessed by a violent, unholy drive that is simultaneously rousing, chilling, and — above all else — highly infectious.
Netflix Set during Japan’s Edo period and several decades after a strict isolationist policy banned all foreigners from crossing the nation’s borders, Blue Eye Samurai follows Mizu (Maya Erskine), a soft-spoken, biracial swordswoman who is dead set on killing the four white men who were in Japan at the time of her birth. Her striking blue eyes make her mixed-race origins clear to anyone who sees past her colored glasses, and Mizu seeks to kill whichever European man is responsible for her life, which has been marked by intense bigotry and racism ever since she was a child. As she explains to one of her enemies early in Blue Eye Samurai ’s first season, Mizu isn’t seeking redemption, happiness, or peace — only satisfaction.
The unlikely student of a blind master swordmaker (Cary-Hiroyuki Tagawa), Mizu has spent her whole life preparing for her quest for revenge. Her hard work has made her practically unstoppable with a blade, and her decision to use bindings to physically hide her female features has made it easier for her to pass from Japanese village to village uninterrupted. As discreet as she may be, though, it isn’t long before Mizu has attracted the attention of an aspiring apprentice in the form of the handless chef, Ringo (Masi Oka), and made a rival out of a fellow swordsman named Taigen (Darren Barnet).
She also quickly puts herself on the radar of her latest quarry, a brutish Scotsman named Abijah Fowler (Kenneth Branagh), as well as his Japanese protector and benefactor, Heiji Shindo (Randall Park). As Mizu plans her eventual attack on their well-protected island fortress, she finds herself attacked by various assassins sent her way by Fowler and Shindo. The duo’s efforts give Blue Eye Samurai an excuse to fill each of its episodes with plenty of violence, and the series frequently renders each slash of Mizu’s blade as one well-executed brushstroke and the inevitable eruptions of blood that follow as nothing more than her paint of choice. In one centerpiece sequence, Mizu fights off an entire squad of mercenaries while scaling down the side of a cliff — their bisected bodies, chopped-off limbs, and blood swirling around her as she leaps from ledge to ledge.
Netflix The series is easily Netflix’s most ambitious animated production since 2021’s Arcane.
 As was the case in that unexpectedly great show, there’s clear care present in every frame of Blue Eye Samurai ’s first season. Its animation style evokes everything from classic Japanese watercolor paintings to 1940s samurai thrillers and ‘60s Spaghetti Westerns. The sheer visual artistry of the show makes up for its occasionally blunt-force storytelling style, which has a habit of hammering certain points home more than they need to be. Subtlety, to be fair, isn’t what Blue Eye Samurai ’s going for. The series is a maximalist action epic that succeeds, like many of its genre predecessors, when its exploration of its hero is as strong as its onscreen action.
As familiar as many of Blue Eye Samurai ’s plot beats and characters are, the series mines a considerable amount of compelling, affecting drama out of its protagonist’s inner world. Mizu is, in many ways, a classic anti-hero: A lone swordswoman torn between her innate goodness and her all-consuming desire for revenge.
Blue Eye Samurai gradually deepens its protagonist’s psychic landscape, though, offering glimpses into her past that reveal more emotional complexity than her archetypal silhouette suggests. The series casts many of its characters in an understandably one-note light, but it gives its eponymous lead the depth necessary to make her a formidable and intriguing anchor for its story.
Netflix Maya Erskine’s performance proves to be just as important to Blue Eye Samurai ’s exploration of Mizu as its animators, too. The PEN15 co-creator leans all the way into Mizu’s unforgiving persona — giving her an uncharacteristically, clearly acquired grumbly voice that quietly crumbles away during the character’s rare moments of vulnerability and tenderness. Equipped with nothing more than her voice, Erskine offers viewers constant insight into Mizu’s psychological state — vocally reinforcing both the relentless brutality and core emotional chords of Blue Eye Samurai ’s plot at every turn.
Nowhere are the nuances of Erskine’s performance, as well as the overall strength of Noizumi and Green’s storytelling, clearer than in the series’ standout fifth episode. A nesting-doll installment of television that splits its focus between multiple layers of reality and time, the episode uses an extended chapter from Mizu’s past, a performance of a well-known Japanese folktale, and a seemingly impossible battle in a brothel to create an intricate, bombastic portrait of its lead’s pain and rage that is as thrilling to watch unfold as it is devastating in its emotional potency. Written by Noizumi and directed by Green, it represents the perfect synthesis of all of Blue Eye Samurai ’s various influences and ideas.
The episodes that follow never reach the highs of the series’ fifth, and its creative team makes a decision in Blue Eye Samurai ’s season one finale that could easily tear its future installments apart. Generally speaking, though, Blue Eye Samurai ’s missteps are few and far between. It’s a series that feels fully realized the second it begins, and it has more genuine thrills to offer than most other shows this year — animated or otherwise. As its title suggests, it’s a clear-eyed, impressively sharp drama, one that has a knack for knocking you off your feet and bludgeoning you with memorable moment after memorable moment.
Season one of Blue Eye Samurai is streaming now on Netflix.
Editors' Recommendations The 50 best shows on Netflix in November 2023 6 best TV shows you need to watch in December The best shows on Hulu right now (November 2023) The 10 best Netflix drama shows right now (October 2023) The best romance shows on Netflix right now Netflix Product Reviews Streaming Services Entertainment Although it doesn't yet have the same prestigious reputation as something like HBO, Apple TV+ has proven that it can churn out genuinely great shows when it wants to. Shows like For All Mankind and Pachinko may never have been given the green light or the budget that they received if they were being pushed by another network, and Apple TV+ transformed them both into major success stories.
The streamer's latest new show is Silo, a sci-fi series focused on a group of people who live in an underground silo in the aftermath of a nuclear disaster. Silo isn't just one of the best sci-fi shows on TV, it's also one of the best shows on Apple TV+ ever. Here are a few reasons why you should watch it right now.
It features a wonderful ensemble Entertainment Some TV shows are fantastic, but you can only take in one or two episodes at a time. Think Black Mirror and its heavy, thought-provoking, mind-bending subject material and compartmentalized stories in every episode. You need time to mentally digest each one before diving into the next. But other shows are perfect fodder for binging.
What makes a show binge-worthy? It might be the fact that every episode ends on a “must-see-more” cliffhanger. Or maybe the episodes are short and punchy, so it’s easy to just let them play one after another. In many cases, binge-worthy shows flow so beautifully that watching the 5 to 10 hours per sitting is like enjoying a marathon movie night.
Entertainment Netflix has released the first trailer for the mystery film The Pale Blue Eye. In the footage, Christian Bale plays an aging detective who teams with one of the world's most famous poets to solve a series of murders.
The year is 1830, and Augustus Landor (Bale), a seasoned detective, is summoned to West Point to investigate a disturbing matter. The body of a dead cadet is found, and the young boy's heart has been carved from his chest. When another boy goes missing, Landor enlists the help of Edgar Allen Poe (Harry Melling) to find answers from his fellow cadets. As he searches for the truth, Landor discovers the deaths may be tied to a ritual that achieves immortality. As the voice in the trailer states, "Man will do most anything to cheat death." Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
