Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix F1 Live Stream Stranger Things Season 5 Best New Movies Most Popular Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney+ UFC Live Stream Best Movies on Disney+ Home Entertainment Reviews Dark Harvest review: a Halloween horror misfire By Alex Welch Close The impressive practical design of the film's central monster A few enjoyably over-the-top moments of violence A plot hole-ridden screenplay An unclear sense of logic and setting An anticlimactic, unnecessarily drawn-out ending The best thing one can say about Dark Harvest is that it doesn’t waste any time letting you know exactly what it is. The film, based on a 2006 novel of the same name by Norman Partridge, opens with a bloody prologue that doesn’t so much explain itself as it sets you up for the odd tonal experience to come. Between its opening images of teenage boys being cut down by a walking scarecrow with a pumpkin head and the Southern-fried piece of voice-over that accompanies those images, Dark Harvest makes it clear that it’s neither remotely self-serious, nor afraid to spill a little blood. In its subsequent 90 minutes, the film follows through on both of those promises.
What it never manages to do, though, is find the right balance between its own, heightened satirical tone and the already loose sense of logic that its story demands. For a film that’s about little more than a group of teenagers who are forced to hunt a monster every year, Dark Harvest has a surprisingly hard time addressing the many plot holes and questions that its premise invites. That not only dulls the effectiveness of its numerous, genuinely impressive instances of violence and mayhem, but renders the film largely toothless.
Metro Goldwyn Mayer Pictures Heavily indebted to horror stories like Shirley Jackson’s The Lottery , Dark Harvest takes place in the 1960s in an unnamed small Midwestern town that forces its teenage boys to compete every year in an event called “The Run.” Let loose every Halloween night, The Run’s competitors are ordered to kill a murderous monster known as “Sawtooth Jack” and, consequently, guarantee another year’s worth of “prize crops” for their town. In exchange, whoever kills Sawtooth Jack is not only given an expensive car and enough money to leave their hometown behind forever, but their family is also set up in a new house free of charge.
This underrated 2023 horror movie on Netflix deserves more love. Here’s why you should watch it 3 best horror movies on Apple TV+ to watch this Halloween 10 best horror movies of the 1970s, ranked The film follows Richie Shepard (Casey Likes), a high school punk who has had a chip on his shoulder ever since his football star brother, Jim (Britain Dalton), won The Run the year prior. Determined to prove his worth once and for all, Richie ignores the orders of his town’s zealous sheriff, Jerry Ricks (Luke Kirby), as well as his parents, Donna (Elizabeth Reaser) and Dan (Jeremy Davies), and sets out on Halloween night to truly follow in his brother’s footsteps. After Richie’s dreams of glory are quickly dashed, however, he begins to suspect that everything he’s been led to believe about The Run may not be true.
The twists that eventually come in Dark Harvest ’s third act should be fairly obvious to any even casually experienced horror fan. That said, the film’s script, penned by Michael Gilio, does a commendable job of ensuring that its biggest reveals land with a modicum of weight, and Likes’ performance as Richie helps communicate the emotionally devastating nature of his town’s biggest secrets. As a commentary on the underlying rot of American small towns and how one place’s traditions can blind its inhabitants, though, Dark Harvest falls tragically short.
Metro Goldwyn Mayer Pictures Despite packing itself to the brim with over-the-top performances and caricatures of common, archetypal figures, the film fails to successfully lampoon small-town American culture. The history of Dark Harvest ’s central town is too undefined for the film’s critiques to feel as precise as they should, and even the sets, costumes, and buildings featured throughout it come across as nothing more than half-hearted attempts at recreating iconic Americana designs. The thriller knows what it wants to say about its characters and world, but it lacks the ability to articulate and convey its own ideas.
As Hard Candy and 30 Days of Night director David Slade’s first feature effort in well over a decade, the film is an undeniable disappointment. Through his experiences working on shows like Hannibal , American Gods , and Black Mirror , the filmmaker has greatly honed his own, deeply impressionistic visual style, and there are several grotesquely gorgeous images to be found in Dark Harvest.
 However, Slade’s unusual directorial vision doesn’t make up for the schematic nature of Gilio’s screenplay so much as it just further reinforces the shallowness of it.
When Dark Harvest commits to the exaggerated nature of its violence — at one point, a massacre is visualized by a geyser of blood shooting out the entrance of a storm cellar — it briefly becomes the simple, fun horror time that its story suggests. With his elongated limbs, exposed teeth, and pumpkin-infused face, the practical design of the film’s Halloween monster makes him a wonder to behold as well. Unfortunately, as impressive as many of its ingredients are, Dark Harvest never truly brings them all together. It’s a visually striking creation, but like Sawtooth Jack himself, there’s nothing but a few lumps of straw and several pieces of candy hidden beneath its surface.
Dark Harvest is now available to rent and buy on all major digital platforms.
Editors' Recommendations Thanksgiving’s ending, explained 5 best horror movies on Netflix to watch this Halloween 3 best horror movies on Peacock to watch this Halloween 5 best horror movies on Hulu to watch this Halloween 3 great PG-13 horror movies to check out if you like the Five Nights at Freddy’s movie Product Reviews Entertainment Spooky season is officially here, and that means lots of pumpkins, apples, candy, ghosts, bats, and other things that go bump in the night. There will be Halloween parties going on or you may be taking little ones trick-or-treating the night of Halloween. Regardless, there are plenty of spooks to go around! One of the best ways to celebrate Halloween is also by watching Halloween-themed movies. But typically those involve scary or horror movies, which not everyone is a fan of. If you want to watch a Halloween movie that’s a bit more tame and enjoyable for everyone, including little ones, here are some great options.
Entertainment When John Carpenter and Debra Hill created Halloween in 1978, they could never have anticipated that their low-budget independent horror movie would become one of the most long-lived film franchises in Hollywood. As a matter of fact, if had been up to them, Michael Myers would never have been seen again after tumbling out of the second-story window of his childhood home and vanishing into the night.
However, executive producer Moustapha Akkad, who put up the film’s modest $300,000 budget, wasn’t about to leave money on the table, and he and his son Malek have kept the series alive via sequels, remakes, and reboots for over 40 years, with and without Carpenter and Hill’s blessing. Halloween has become, like its villainous Shape, virtually unkillable and difficult to define. Its timeline is messy and its quality varies wildly between entries, but it nevertheless remains the gold standard in slasher franchises.
Editor's note: There are plot spoilers for each Halloween movie below.
13. Halloween II (2009) Entertainment When it comes to horror movies, one of the best places to catch the genre’s latest and greatest entries is with an Amazon Prime Video subscription. That being said, scrolling through the platform’s many terror titles can be a terrorizing endeavor unto itself. Let’s just say there are plenty of duds out there, which is why it’s our job to unearth Prime Video’s best horror content.
Our monthly roundup includes some of the platform’s newest movies, as well as some celebrated horror classics. So strap in, dim the lights, and get ready to scream! Here are the best horror movies you can stream on Prime Video for November 2023.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
