Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Acer Chromebook Vero 514 Review Chromebook vs Laptop Screenshot on a Chromebook Reset a Chromebook Best Chromebooks Chromebook Problems Split Screen on a Chromebook Home Computing Products Chromebook vs laptop: Which is better and what is the difference? By Jon Martindale Close Many people consider Chromebooks to be the sleeker, quicker, and even simpler cousin of the traditional laptop. Unlike a Mac or Windows system, a Chromebook mostly relies heavily on the internet for everyday tasks.
What is a Chromebook? What is the difference between a laptop and a Chromebook? What can a Chromebook do? What are the downsides of a Chromebook? Do Chromebooks need to be connected to the internet? Who are Chromebooks for? How much do Chromebooks cost? Should you choose a Chromebook over a laptop? Which is the best Chromebook to buy? Since they’re also typically less expensive, you might be wondering how a Chromebook compares to a regular laptop, including the best laptops around. What is the difference between a Chromebook and a laptop? Are Chromebooks a waste of money or an affordable diamond in the rough? Let’s find out.
What is a Chromebook? Mark Coppock/Digital Trends When Chromebooks first appeared in 2011, they were lightweight, budget laptops based on Google’s new ChromeOS platform. These laptops mainly relied on cloud-based applications rather than traditional software. Over the years, their more affordable nature has changed, but the value is still at the heart of what a Chromebook offers.
Black Friday laptop deal drops this Lenovo Chromebook to $149 These new Chromebook Plus laptops are already discounted The best 17-inch laptops Acer, Asus, HP, Dell, Lenovo, and Samsung all sell Chromebooks in various sizes ranging from the Ultrabook-type design to 2-in-1 laptops to the traditional clamshell.
The cheaper models tend to be larger and less powerful than the slimmer, sleeker premium models. These lower-end Chromebooks are most often seen in schools or as first-time personal laptops. Higher-end Chromebooks like Google’s own Pixelbook Go feature premium aluminum bodies, fast Intel Core processors, and, in some cases, 4K and OLED screens — the latter of which you’ll find on the Lenovo IdeaPad Duet 5 Chromebook , the first detachable tablet with an OLED display.
Although you can’t buy a $2,000 Chromebook like you can a Windows 11 laptop or MacBook, there is now a wide range of options depending on your needs.
What is the difference between a laptop and a Chromebook? Among the most expensive Chromebooks you can buy is HP’s Elite Chromebook C1030, which starts at $1,624. It represents the high end not only in premium materials and build quality, but also in performance.
Overall, you’ll find Chromebooks ranging from 11-inch 2-in-1s up to 15-inch options for additional screen real estate. HD resolution is the standard, while Full HD, touchscreen, and 4K options are becoming more common. Intel Celeron processors are a popular choice for today’s Chromebooks — typically, dual-core versions that rarely rise above the 2.0GHz mark — although you’ll find Core i5 and i7 chips as the prices climb.
Most Chromebooks offer 2GB to 4GB of RAM, which is enough for average laptop tasks but low compared to traditional laptop models that regularly offer 8GB or 16GB of RAM. As for storage, Chromebooks don’t have large disk drives, as they depend on the internet for most data purposes. Storage can usually be augmented with an SD card or a USB drive if necessary.
For ports, most Chromebooks are largely comparable to laptops, though fewer in number. USB-A, USB-C, and headphone jacks are common connections.
Most Chromebooks have better battery life than the typical laptop. Although about 10 hours is most common, newer models are more likely to have 12-hour battery life depending on the workflow. Windows laptops are slowly closing the gap, but on average, Chromebooks last longer.
The truly high-end part of the laptop range, however, doesn’t include Chromebooks. You won’t find Intel 12th-gen, AMD Ryzen 5000, or Apple M1 processors like you get on a laptop like the MacBook Pro 16 , Razer Blade 17 , or Dell XPS 15.
 These content-creation machines and gaming laptops will outclass any Chromebook in terms of performance.
Finally, ChromeOS tablets such as HP’s Chromebook X2 11 are available, but we wouldn’t recommend those without a keyboard.
What can a Chromebook do? Chromebooks ship with their own operating system called ChromeOS, which is based on Linux and uses the Chrome browser as an interface. It has basic computing elements, such as a file manager and an app launcher, but most of what you use are web-based apps that require no downloading.
That might sound limiting at first, but many popular apps already offer web-based versions like Spotify, Netflix, Slack, and Evernote. Due to the prevalence of web applications, many people spend most of their time in a web browser anyway. If your typical workflow resembles this scenario, transitioning to a Chromebook will be relatively smooth. Just connect to Wi-Fi and proceed with your browsing as normal.
However, with the addition of the Google Play Store, you can also download Android apps to fill in any software gaps. Their implementation in a laptop setting might be a little funky in some cases — some expand full-screen while others remain locked in smartphone screen mode — but you can use Android apps on a Chromebook if you really need them.
Chromebooks also support Linux software. If you absolutely need desktop applications, setting up Linux is certainly an option. There are Linux versions of Audacity, Firefox, GIMP, OBS Studio, Steam, VirtualBox, and many more, but your favorite application may not offer a Linux-based variant. Check the developer’s website first before ruling out a Chromebook.
Finally, if you’re a gamer, there are plenty of options, but you’re also limited. For example, your best bet is to install Android games. Installing Steam on a Chromebook is doable, but the typical low-end hardware and minimal storage will limit what you can download and play.
That said, Chromebooks aren’t meant for gaming. If that’s the only reason why you need a laptop — to play Cyberpunk 2077 or something similar on the go — the best investment would be one of the Windows-powered gaming laptops you can buy today. Still, we have a list of the best games for Chromebooks if you’re interested in what is available and easily playable.
What are the downsides of a Chromebook? Image used with permission by copyright holder The restrictions of ChromeOS mean you can’t install some important software that you might otherwise need. Some notable examples include certain Adobe applications or any kind of proprietary software that’s restricted to Windows or macOS. If you rely on similar applications, you’ll either need to find a Linux-based alternative or avoid Chromebooks altogether.
Limitations also extend to performance in general. Chromebooks do tend to run fast, but typically that’s due to the lightweight nature of ChromeOS — it’s not service-heavy in the background like Windows. However, in some cases, you’ll be limited by the components inside. Lower-end Chromebooks tend to use older or low-end processors that can’t compete with what you get in the Windows and Mac space, especially in terms of multitasking. Then again, if you’re looking at spending $200, a Chromebook is a far better option.
On the higher end, there are options like the HP Chromebook x2 11 or the HP Chromebook x360 14c , and you’ll find familiar processors like quad-core/eight-thread 11th-generation Intel Core CPUs and even more exotic options like Qualcomm’s Snapdragon 7c — Chromebooks tend to fly with these faster options, get phenomenal battery life, or both. While you still can’t get the absolute fastest CPUs in Chromebooks, you don’t need them to keep up with Windows and macOS.
Not to mention that new accessories sometimes lack the necessary drivers to work correctly on a Chromebook. While support may arrive down the line, it may not, sometimes leaving Chromebook users limited by choice of accessories compared to those on Windows laptops and MacBooks.
Local storage still tends to be limited to between 16GB and 64GB on most Chromebooks, and it’s almost exclusively eMMC Flash storage. That means it’s relatively fast, but space is restrictive. Why so little? Again, ChromeOS was originally designed to be an affordable, lightweight solution that relies on web-based apps. Now that the platform supports Android apps and Linux desktop software, storage needs have skyrocketed, but the storage capacities remain restricted.
That’s where Google Cloud comes in. You get 100GB of free cloud storage for 12 months, but after that, you’re charged $20 annually, which isn’t bad. Other Google One plans range from 200GB to 30TB, costing up to $150 per month. Ouch. The Chromebook’s low storage pushes you to rely on subscription-based cloud services. However, one alternative solution is to install an SD card if the Chromebook includes a slot. Currently, you can’t offload Android apps to an SD card, and maximum SD card capacities vary between models.
You could also use an external hard drive if you want more local storage space.
Do Chromebooks need to be connected to the internet? Most Chromebooks connect to the internet using Wi-Fi, though some higher-priced models offer cellular connectivity. If you can’t find a signal, there are workarounds for plenty of routine tasks — don’t let the heavy reliance on Chrome fool you.
For instance, you can still compose and read emails with Gmail Offline and work on documents offline with Google Drive.
 The offline apps will automatically save your work and sync back up with the online services when your Chromebook reconnects. Even more, you can download and play many Android games offline, too.
Who are Chromebooks for? Image used with permission by copyright holder Chromebooks are designed with a few specific people in mind. At the forefront are students, as school administrations tend to favor Chromebooks due to their security benefits, sturdy build quality, and software limitations. That means you’ll find cheap Chromebooks in public schools across the country.
Chromebooks go beyond just cheap, plastic laptops for kids. There are also higher-end options for professionals and college students. Because they tend to be lightweight with long battery life, they are great options for people who need to take their work on the go, whether that’s from class to class or on long flights. Some of these include the business-oriented HP Elite Chromebook C1030 and the Asus Chromebook Flip C536.
There are certainly those same options in the Windows laptop world. However, in the cheaper price range, Chromebooks can sometimes provide a better value. For example, approximately $500 is where Chromebooks thrive, but Windows 11 laptops at this price tend to get bogged down with a thick chassis and clunky performance.
How much do Chromebooks cost? Despite how expensive Chromebooks become, they are still a more inexpensive option than most other brands. For instance, you could buy more than one Chromebook and still have some remaining funds rather than purchasing only one Microsoft laptop for a hefty $3,100.
Lenovo’s Chromebook Flex 5 comes in at just $425, for example. For $225, you can buy a well-known and loved Samsung Chromebook 4+ model. Chromebooks are so widespread because of their affordability, which makes them accessible to a wider customer base.
A Chromebook’s features will never be able to compare with more expensive laptops, but they perform just about every task you’d need them to do. They are dependable, trustworthy products that meet spontaneous, budget-friendly needs and desires. Their simplistic design also makes them astonishingly user-friendly, which is always a great thing, as many people are technologically challenged and may not be entirely comfortable when they have to work with laptops or computers.
Should you choose a Chromebook over a laptop? Image used with permission by copyright holder First, ask yourself this question: Why do I need a notebook? Dig deep and consider what you require from a mobile PC.
If you’re looking for a laptop that can handle high-level gaming, crystal-clear 4K video editing, or even professional digital art programs, then a Chromebook probably isn’t the right pick for you.
While you can install Linux-based alternatives to upgrade your system, the underlying hardware in most Chromebooks is simply underwhelming compared to alternatives. Android apps do a decent job of filling in many of the holes that ChromeOS native apps can’t, but the Windows and macOS software environments are simply more expansive and fleshed out.
Chromebooks suffer from limited storage space, which is another concession users will need to consider. Most Chromebooks only offer 32GB to 64GB of storage space, about half that of their Windows and MacBook counterparts (which start at 128GB). To get around the low storage issue, you’ll need to purchase a premium model like the Galaxy Chromebook with 256GB of storage.
Overall, Chromebooks are excellent for everyday use, especially for email, social media, and word processing. They’re an affordable alternative to higher-priced machines, but the typical web-based configurations seen across most Chromebooks aren’t meant to drive heavy desktop applications, making them perfect for basic projects. They just aren’t as capable as many Windows laptops and Apple MacBooks because they focus on a different market.
The low price, then, is the top reason why Chromebooks are a popular choice, particularly for students who don’t need a high-performing laptop.
Which is the best Chromebook to buy? Mark Coppock / Digital Trends There’s a lot of nuance that goes into selecting the best Chromebook , but the HP Elite Dragonfly is tough to beat.
It’s the first Chromebook we’ve seen that can truly be classified as “cutting edge,” as it features an Intel 12th-gen Core i5 processor, a high-resolution screen, and a premium build quality. It comes with all of the trimmings of a high-end laptop as well, including a haptic touchpad, Intel vPro certification, and Thunderbolt 4 connectivity.
If you’re looking for the king of Chromebooks, the HP Elite Dragonfly is for you. However, it’s expensive and not suited for every purpose. Here are a few additional options.
For gaming Aaron Leong / Digital Trends Chromebooks aren’t built for gaming — or, at least, most of them aren’t. The Acer Chromebook 516 GE is one of the rare Chromebooks that was built specifically for gaming. It’s not a gaming notebook like you’ve probably seen, though.
It’s built for cloud gaming. The Intel Core i5-1240P processor can play some light games, but the Chromebook 516 GE is crafted to run apps like GeForce Now and Xbox Game Pass. The laptop itself helps that with a 120Hz screen, allowing you to take advantage of high refresh rates available in some cloud gaming apps, as well as Wi-Fi 6E for high-speed connectivity and Bluetooth 5.2 to hook up your controller.
For students Mark Coppock / Digital Trends Students are usually strapped for cash and need a powerful machine. For the best balance of price and portability, it’s hard to beat Lenovo’s IdeaPad Duet 5.
 It’s a $400 Chromebook with excellent battery life and one of the most robust builds we’ve seen out of a Chromebook.
Performance is solid for the machine, with an eight-core mobile processor that can power basic productivity apps. Like most Chromebooks, you’re limited to 128GB of storage, but that’s not a huge problem at this price. It’s easy to overlook, too, considering the beautiful OLED display.
If you need to go cheaper, the Lenovo Chromebook Duet 3 is also a solid option at around $300, though it’s smaller and the keyboard isn’t as nice.
Touch screen Mark Coppock / Digital Trends You’ll find touch screens on many Chromebooks, but the Acer Chromebook Spin 714 is our favorite. It’s a 2-in-1 design that can flip around to give you full access to the touchscreen, and despite its premium build and solid power, it’s not too expensive.
The machine clocks in at just shy of $800. For that, you’re getting a beautiful 3:2 display, Intel Evo certification, and a 12th-gen Intel processor.
Editors' Recommendations Best Lenovo laptop Black Friday deals: Chromebooks, gaming laptops, and more Best Chromebook deals: Cheap laptops starting at $180 10 best laptops of 2023: tested and reviewed Microsoft Surface Laptop 4, Surface Laptop 5 prices slashed Dell vs. HP: Which laptop brand is best for your needs? Chromebooks Google Chrome Laptops Versus Computing Although they've caught some flak over the years, Chromebooks provide a lightweight OS that Windows and Mac can't touch, offering an incredibly convenient and functional experience with much lower system requirements. We've reviewed hundreds of the best laptops over the years, testing for important qualities like performance, battery life, and display quality. And we've found that Chromebooks consistently excel at performance and reliability. You can find Chromebooks from Google, HP, Lenovo, Acer, and many others, and we've dug through them to find the best Chromebooks on the market.
The Chromebook laptops we've assembled here are something special. They offer solid performance, excellent functionality, and enough diversity to handle just about any need. Read on to see which models you should consider and maybe even acquire for yourself.
Computing With Apple's introduction of the latest M2 MacBook models, it's time to take another look at which is the best MacBook to buy in 2023. That's not always easy, though, as buying the newest MacBook isn't always the right decision. Apple has several tiers of performance, as well as various sizes, which can complicate the matter.
There are several MacBook models available, designated MacBook Air or MacBook Pro, with varying memory and storage configurations, as well as four kinds of processors, providing a wide selection to choose from.
Computing The 2-in-1 form factor has certainly come into its own over the last several years. There's really no reason to limit yourself to a clamshell, as there's a 2-in-1 that will meet the needs of all but the most demanding users in terms of sheer performance.
We've reviewed every great 2-in-1 you can buy, including Chromebooks, convertibles, and powerful 15-inch versions. The overall best 2-in-1 at the moment is the Microsoft Surface Pro 9, with its fantastic keyboard that's as easy to remove as it is to type on, plus its 120Hz display and haptic-enabled pen. It's almost as good a laptop as it is a tablet, which is what makes it the best overall 2-in-1. test Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
