Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix F1 Live Stream Stranger Things Season 5 Best New Movies Most Popular Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney+ UFC Live Stream Best Movies on Disney+ Home Entertainment Reviews Dumb Money review: an easily digestible dramedy By Alex Welch Close Paul Dano's quietly charismatic lead performance An entertaining cast of supporting characters A consistently funny, breezy script Only a surface-level examination of its story Several poorly timed needle drops Many have correctly noted that most of the midbudget dramedies that are produced nowadays seem to either take place in the distant past or in a contemporary time frame that is so undefined it might as well not matter.
Dumb Money , in many ways, feels like a response to this particular trend. Set in the COVID lockdown era of 2020 and early 2021, the film invites viewers back to a period that will likely still be fresh in the minds of many who see it. Furthermore, it brings a story to life on the big screen that is about as recent as a scripted film can possibly adapt.
Telling such a contemporary story is a considerable risk for a movie to take. Few writers and directors, after all, have proven themselves capable of truly exploring the complexities of their current eras onscreen. That’s something that only considerable hindsight usually affords artists the ability to do, and the potential for cringeworthy, on-the-nose metaphors and diatribes increases exponentially the closer to the present a film’s setting gets. Despite that, Dumb Money is surprisingly cringe-free, and its observations, while shallow, ring no less true now than they might have two years ago.
Lacey Terrell / Sony Pictures Directed by I, Tonya and Lars and the Real Girl director Craig Gillespie, Dumb Money follows Keith Gill (Paul Dano), a modest stock analyst who gains attention online when he begins sharing his interest and investments in GameStop, a once-popular video game retailer that was, like a lot of companies, driven to difficult times by the COVID-19 pandemic. In doing so, Keith paves the way for his niche interest in GameStop’s stock to become a full-blown online movement — one co-opted and partly organized by the members of a subreddit known as r/WallStreetBets.
Dumb Money trailer reveals the people behind the GameStop stock squeeze Rosaline review: Kaitlyn Dever lifts up Hulu’s Romeo and Juliet rom-com riff Amsterdam review: An exhausting, overlong conspiracy thriller From there, Dumb Money quickly expands its scope, focusing on an assortment of middle-class Americans who are inspired by Keith, as well as the hedge fund investors and company CEOs who stand to lose millions of dollars in the face of GameStop’s rising stock price. Key among its supporting figures are Jennifer Campbell ( Barbie ‘s America Ferrera), a nurse committed to taking Wall Street and its stock market manipulators to task; Marcos (Anthony Ramos), a GameStop employee desperate to leave his dead-end job behind; and Steve Cohen (Vincent D’Onofrio), Ken Griffin (Nick Offerman), and Gabe Plotkin (Seth Rogen), a trio of hedge fund managers desperate to keep GameStop’s stock price down.
Dumb Money spends most of its second and third acts bouncing between its characters’ perspectives — slowly offering viewers more details about how much each stands to gain and lose from GameStop’s collectively managed success. Tonally and structurally, the film feels deeply indebted to dramedies like The Big Short , though it lacks the same energy, unbridled rage, and quiet sense of tragedy as that 2015 Oscar nominee. What it lacks in subtlety and bite, however, Dumb Money makes up for with its pure entertainment value and easily digestible pieces of insight into what, for many, may have been nothing more than a viral news story they briefly heard about in 2020 and 2021.
Claire Folger / Sony Pictures The film clearly communicates the Middle America versus Wall Street conflict at the center of its story, and it accurately believes that its sentiments about the country’s worsening wage gap will be in line with most of its viewers’ opinions right now.
Dumb Money , consequently, doesn’t feel the need to overly explain its plot or argue the merits of its own ideas. The film presents the facts of its characters’ lives as plainly as it can, and it gives itself the space to highlight not only the absurd greed of its primary Wall Street figures, but also the underdog quality of its middle-class heroes’ shared plight.
Like many of Gillespie’s movies, there are stylistic flourishes that don’t work as well as others, including several poorly timed needle drops that are more distracting than anything else. Fortunately, these mistakes aren’t enough to take away from the quiet confidence of Gillespie’s direction, the subtle elegance of ​​Lauren Schuker Blum and Rebecca Angelo’s script, or Kirk Baxter’s smooth, buoyant editing, which keeps the film afloat and moving nicely along even during its most meandering second-act detours. While all of its performers capably bring their characters to life as well, Dano is the steady, soft-spoken heart and soul of Dumb Money , and he’s perfectly cast as its intelligent, self-effacing lead.
Lacey Terrell / Sony Pictures Opposite Dano, Shailene Woodley and Pete Davidson turn in welcome, warmly affectionate performances as Keith’s wife and brother. Together, Dumb Money ’s cast keeps the film modestly grounded in the perspectives and emotions of its characters — even in the moments when it’s busy throwing out its most pointed jabs at its arrogant stock market overlords. Its criticisms are undoubtedly obvious, but there’s also never been a better time than now for a major Hollywood film to point out the insidious absurdity of America’s wealth machine.
Dumb Money may get its title from a Wall Street slang term about day trader investments, but what it successfully argues is that there’s nothing dumber than greed — and few things that deserve to be fought quite as fiercely.
Dumb Money is now playing in theaters nationwide.
Editors' Recommendations 3 movies like Dumb Money that you need to watch Sony sets a release date for its GameStop movie, Dumb Money Decision to Leave review: An achingly romantic noir thriller Tár review: Cate Blanchett soars in Todd Field’s ambitious new drama Vesper review: an imaginative sci-fi adventure Product Reviews Entertainment Entergalactic isn’t like most other animated movies that you’ll see this year — or any year, for that matter. The film, which was created by Scott Mescudi a.k.a. Kid Cudi and executive producer Kenya Barris, was originally intended to be a TV series. Now, it’s set to serve as a 92-minute companion to Cudi’s new album of the same name. That means Entergalactic not only attempts to tell its own story, one that could have easily passed as the plot of a Netflix original rom-com, but it does so while also featuring several sequences that are set to specific Cudi tracks.
Beyond the film’s musical elements, Entergalactic is also far more adult than viewers might expect it to be. The film features several explicit sex scenes and is as preoccupied with the sexual politics of modern-day relationships as it is in, say, street art or hip-hop. While Entergalactic doesn’t totally succeed in blending all of its disparate elements together, the film’s vibrantly colorful aesthetic and infectiously romantic mood make it a surprisingly sweet, imaginative tour through a fairytale version of New York City.
Entertainment From its chaotic, underwater first frame all way to its liberating, sun-soaked final shot, God’s Creatures is full of carefully composed images. There’s never a moment across the film’s modest 94-minute runtime in which it feels like co-directors Saela Davis and Anna Rose Holmer aren’t in full control of what’s happening on-screen. Throughout much of God’s Creatures’ quietly stomach-churning second act, that sense of directorial control just further heightens the tension that lurks beneath the surface of the film’s story.
In God's Creatures' third act, however, Holmer and Davis’ steady grip becomes a stranglehold, one that threatens to choke all the drama and suspense out of the story they’re attempting to tell. Moments that should come across as either powerful punches to the gut or overwhelming instances of emotional relief are so underplayed that they are robbed of much of their weight. God's Creatures, therefore, ultimately becomes an interesting case study on artistic restraint, and, specifically, how too calculated a style can, if executed incorrectly, leave a film feeling unsuitably cold.
Entertainment Andrew Dominik’s Blonde opens, quite fittingly, with the flashing of bulbs. In several brief, twinkling moments, we see a rush of images: cameras flashing, spotlights whirring to life, men roaring with excitement (or anger — sometimes it’s hard to tell the difference), and at the center of it all is her, Marilyn Monroe (played by Ana de Armas), striking her most iconic pose as a gust of wind blows up her white dress. It’s an opening that makes sense for a film about a fictionalized version of Monroe’s life, one that firmly roots the viewer in the world and space of a movie star. But to focus only on de Armas’ Marilyn is to miss the point of Blonde’s opening moments.
As the rest of Dominik’s bold, imperfect film proves, Blonde is not just about the recreation of iconic moments, nor is it solely about the making of Monroe’s greatest career highlights. It is, instead, about exposure and, in specific, the act of exposing yourself — for art, for fame, for love — and the ways in which the world often reacts to such raw vulnerability. In the case of Blonde, we're shown how a world of men took advantage of Monroe’s vulnerability by attempting to control her image and downplay her talent.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
