Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Netflix Original Movies Best Comedies on Netflix Best Netflix Original Series Best Anime on Netflix Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Fantasy Movies on Netflix Home Entertainment News Everything announced at Netflix’s 2023 Geeked event By Blair Marnell Close Netflix Because of the twin actors and writers strikes in Hollywood, Comic-Con was a lot quieter than usual for companies like Netflix.
 However, Netflix has its own streaming events to make big announcements for next year’s biggest shows. And they don’t get much bigger than the live-action Avatar: The Last Airbender series. The adaptation of the beloved Nickelodeon animated series finally has a premiere date: February 22, 2024. Netflix also dropped the first trailer, which will look very familiar to fans of the original show.
Orion and the Dark Leo Ultraman: Rising My Daemon Squid Game: The Challenge The Umbrella Academy Arcane There were a lot of other announcements, trailers, and videos released during Netflix’s 2023 Geeked event, and we’re running them all down now.
Orion and the Dark DreamWorks Animation is releasing a new animated film, Orion and the Dark , directly to Netflix on February 2, 2024. It stars Jacob Tremblay as the voice of Orion, a kid who is scared of everything, especially the dark. Much to Orion’s surprise, the Dark is a sentient being, and he’s offended that Orion is afraid. So the Dark takes it upon himself to cure Orion of his fears.
Everything leaving Netflix in November 2023 3 Edgar Allan Poe horror movies to watch after Netflix’s Fall of the House of Usher 5 worst movies of 2023 so far Leo Fans won’t have to wait as long for Leo.
 This animated film is coming to Netflix on November 21, and it features Adam Sandler as Leo, a lizard who has lived in a school for decades. In the clip shown above, Leo attempts to make his grand escape. But as seen in the previous trailers for the film, once the kids learn that Leo can talk, they love him more than ever. He inspires the children of his school and they give him a new purpose in life.
Ultraman: Rising The new Ultraman, Ken Sato, arrives in the first teaser for Ultraman: Rising.
 Ken is a star baseball player by night, and secretly the biggest hero in Japan, literally. But this time, Ultraman has more than he bargained for when the child of a giant dragon imprints on him and mistakes Ken for his parent.
My Daemon The new anime, My Daemon , features stunning animation from a studio in Thailand, and it looks fantastic. The show takes place in the future, and it follows a kid named Kento and a Daemon he calls Anna, who is helping Kento find a way to save his mother.
Squid Game: The Challenge Squid Game: The Challenge is not a new season of the hit Korean series. But it is a reality show that lets people play some Squid Game -inspired tasks. Series creator Hwang Dong-hyuk appears in this video to explain it all.
The Umbrella Academy The Umbrella Academy ‘s fourth and final season will arrive on Netflix in 2024. The exact time is a bit iffy right now, but the Geeked event included this video of the cast talking about the final season.
Arcane Arcane. Season 2. November 2024.
#GeekedWeek pic.twitter.com/iigqSDRp2j &mdash; Netflix Geeked (@NetflixGeeked) November 9, 2023 This one made me a little angry because season 1 was great and season 2 is still a full year away. The infuriating thing is that it will be a three-year gap between seasons! There’s no excuse for that, especially when there were only nine episodes. Making us wait that long is not cool, Netflix.
Editors' Recommendations 5 sci-fi movies on Netflix you need to watch in November Everything coming to Netflix in November 2023 Everything coming to Netflix in October 2023 Everything leaving Netflix in September 2023 Everything coming to Netflix in September 2023 Netflix Sci-Fi Streaming Services Tech News Entertainment ONE PIECE | Official Trailer | Netflix Even though streamers like Peacock and Prime Video have ramped up their content libraries this summer, Netflix continues to be the primary destination for streaming movies and TV shows. With recent hit shows like FUBAR, Never Have I Ever, and The Witcher season 3, plus blockbuster movies like The Out-Laws and the comedy We're the Millers, Netflix still dominates the streaming landscape like no other.
Entertainment The Italian Job Paramount / Paramount It's sad but true: all good things must come to an end, and that includes some of your favorite movies and TV shows on streaming services. Netflix is not immune to losing content, even if it more than makes up for it with originals like FUBAR or The Out-Laws.
Entertainment All good things must come to an end, and that includes some of your favorite movies and TV shows on streaming services. Netflix is not immune to losing content, even if it more than makes up for it with originals like FUBAR or The Diplomat.
In July 2023, Netflix will be losing series like Moesha and Married at First Sight. In addition, the popular action film franchise Ip Man, the excellent James Bond movie Skyfall, and the Meryl Streep dramas Julie & Julia and August: Osage County will be leaving the popular streaming service next month. Find out if one of your favorites is leaving Netflix in July so you can watch it before it disappears.
Leaving July 9 12 Strong Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
