Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix F1 Live Stream Stranger Things Season 5 Best New Movies Most Popular Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney+ UFC Live Stream Best Movies on Disney+ Home Entertainment Reviews Expend4bles review: a colossal waste of time By Alex Welch Close Jason Statham's reliably commanding star turn Action sequences that are impossible to follow Shockingly bad VFX throughout An underbaked plot A one-note central villain The ongoing WGA and SAG-AFTRA strikes have impacted the entertainment industry in numerous unfortunate ways. Until Hollywood’s studios give the two guilds and their members the wages and protections that they deserve, the strikes will continue to take a toll on the industry at large, too. If there is a silver lining to be found in the double strikes’ impact on Hollywood — outside of the general labor conversation it’s helped propel to the front of American culture — perhaps it’s that none of the actors in Expend4bles had to promote it. The film is an embarrassment for all involved.
The fourth installment in a series that has never truly justified its existence, Expend4bles is an insultingly cheap action movie. If the Expendables franchise was originally designed to celebrate the film icons at the center of it, then its latest entry is the antithesis of that idea. It’s a movie that leaves most of its actors stranded in the unforgiving lands of awful green screen backgrounds and saddled with dialogue that, at times, looks painful for them to deliver. Not only does it make many of its stars look bad, but it traps them in a film that feels like it could have been written, shot, and edited by AI. That would, at least, explain why the whole movie feels so regurgitated, robotic, and lifeless.
Yana Blajeva / Lionsgate Coming nine years after its franchise’s third installment, Expend4bles picks up with Lee Christmas ( Jason Statham ) and Barney Ross (Sylvester Stallone), the two best friends that have long been at the head of the film’s eponymous team of elite mercenaries, and follows them as they take on a dangerous mission in Libya. While there, they cross paths with Suarto Rahmat (Iko Uwais), a deadly assassin working for a mysterious agent of chaos known only as “Ocelot.” Their confrontation with Rahmat inevitably takes a tragic turn and forces Expend4bles to spend most of its second half operating as both a save-the-world thriller and a straightforward revenge film.
Is The Expendables 4 streaming? Expend4bles trailer teases R-rated action and violence Does John Wick die at the end of John Wick: Chapter 4? The movie’s plot is largely nonsensical and made even more so by how quickly it speeds through each of its potentially dramatic moments. The film’s editing, overseen by Michael J. Duthie, renders it a confusing collection of time jumps, illogical action sequences, and jarring cuts that not only fail to cover up its obscenely bad visual effects but also rob its few tactile hand-to-hand combat scenes of much of their impact. Together, Duthie and director Scott Waugh fail to establish any kind of perceptible rhythm or pace throughout Expend4bles , cutting recklessly from one angle and scene to another with no apparent thought or sense of intention. The film’s odd, disorienting editing is, perhaps, best illustrated by how it begins.
Lionsgate Expend4bles opens with a surprise attack on a Libyan chemical factory by Uwais’ Rahmat but abruptly cuts halfway through the sequence to New Orleans so that viewers can see Stallone’s Barney hop on his motorcycle just in time for the film’s title card to hit. The movie then spends an unjustifiably long time on a bar fight instigated by Barney and takes a few minutes to introduce three new players, Gina (an overqualified Megan Fox), Easy Day (Curtis “50 Cent” Jackson), and Marsh (a visibly checked-out Andy García), before journeying back to Libya so that its heroes can interrupt the very Rahmat-run attack that kicked everything off 15 minutes earlier.
Had the transitions between these sections been handled with even a modicum of artistry, Expend4bles ’ first act might not have come across as confusing as it does. There is, however, no sense of directorial purpose to be found in the film, nor any of the rough-and-ready confidence that was, at least, present in the franchise’s first three installments. The movie looks like a cheap, direct-to-DVD action thriller — the kind that chooses to so belligerently ignore the budgetary limitations that it feels designed to end up at the bottom of a bargain bin. Its special effects would fit in better in a PS2 video game than a 2023 blockbuster, which only makes how heavily integrated they are throughout it all the more bizarre. The same goes for the film’s frequent use of green screen backgrounds, which imbue even seemingly harmless dialogue scenes with a distractingly uncanny quality.
Most of the movie’s stars, including Stallone, Dolph Lundgren, García, and Jackson, appear barely present in their scenes, and Waugh fails to take advantage of those who are actually keyed into what’s going on. Statham and Fox, in particular, do their best to lift up their scenes, but their efforts are nullified by the film’s screenplay, which is incapable of deciding whether Fox’s Gina is an overdramatic banshee, hopeless romantic, or capable mercenary. Given Statham’s status as one of our last truly great action stars, it shouldn’t come as a surprise that Expend4bles is at its most watchable whenever it lets the actor simply make his way through his legions of enemies.
There are very minor pleasures to be found in Expend4bles , including a knife fight between Statham and Uwais that reminds you, if briefly, of the purpose action movies like it are typically meant to serve. The film’s highlights are few and far between, though. It’s a cheap mess that, at no point throughout its overlong 104-minute runtime, makes any artistic, professional, or financial sense. It’s a disaster through and through, the kind of black spot on its stars’ filmographies that is best left tucked away on a faraway shelf so that everyone can just forget it ever existed.
Expend4bles is now playing in theaters.
Editors' Recommendations 5 action movies like The Expendables franchise The 7 best Sylvester Stallone action movies, ranked Action heroes reunite in first trailer for The Expendables 4 I saw John Wick: Chapter 4 and I couldn’t stop thinking about this one scene Rosaline review: Kaitlyn Dever lifts up Hulu’s Romeo and Juliet rom-com riff Action Product Reviews Entertainment With its lush sets and perpetually probing camera, Decision to Leave looks and moves like any other Park Chan-wook film, but it reverberates with the same untempered passion present in Golden Age noirs like In a Lonely Place and Double Indemnity. Unlike those two films, though, which center their stories around a hot-tempered screenwriter and naïve insurance salesman, respectively, Decision to Leave follows another common noir archetype: the lovelorn detective (played here by Park Hae-il).
In the film’s opening moments, Hae-jun, the detective in question, lands a case involving the mysterious death of a recreational rock climber. The case, in typical noir fashion, leads to Hae-jun crossing paths with Seo-rae (a spellbinding Tang Wei), his victim’s gorgeous but eccentric widow. Perturbed by how disinterested she is in unpacking her abusive husband’s death, Hae-jun begins to tail and spy on Seo-rae, unaware that doing so will only further intensify his attraction to her. As far as noir plots go, this is about as familiar as it gets. With its nods to Hitchcock and lightly self-aware attitude, Decision to Leave makes it clear that it doesn’t mind treading the same narrative terrain as so many of the noir classics that have come before it, either.
Entertainment At a time when anti-Semitic extremists are storming the U.S Capitol, running for office, and declaring war on Jewish people via social media, it might not be the best time for a movie that expects you to sympathize with Nazis. And yet, that hasn't stopped Operation Seawolf from sailing into theaters and on-demand streaming services this month.
The film, which follows the crew of a German U-boat during the waning days of World War II, casts Dolph Lundgren (Rocky IV) as German war hero Capt. Hans Kessler, who's ordered to lead the Nazis' remaining U-boats on a desperate (and likely fatal) mission to attack the U.S. on its own soil. As he and his crew make their way toward New York City in one final bid to turn the tide of war, Kessler finds himself struggling with both the internal politics of the ship and his own sense of duty as the Third Reich crumbles around him.
Entertainment Amsterdam could have been forgiven for being a lot of things, but dull is not one of them. The new film from writer-director David O. Russell boasts one of the most impressive ensemble casts of the year and is photographed by Emmanuel Lubezki, one of Hollywood’s premier cinematographers. Beyond that, its kooky premise and even wackier cast of characters open the door for Amsterdam to be the kind of screwball murder mystery that O. Russell, at the very least, seems uniquely well-equipped to make.
Instead, Amsterdam is a disaster of the highest order. It’s a film made up of so many disparate, incongruent parts that it becomes clear very early on in its 134-minute runtime that no one involved — O. Russell most of all — really knew what it is they were making. It is a misfire of epic proportions, a comedic conspiracy thriller that is written like a haphazard screwball comedy but paced like a meandering detective drama. Every element seems to be at odds with another, resulting in a film that is rarely funny but consistently irritating.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
