Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix F1 Live Stream Stranger Things Season 5 Best New Movies Most Popular Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney+ UFC Live Stream Best Movies on Disney+ Home Entertainment Reviews Five Nights at Freddy’s review: a middling video game adaptation By Alex Welch Close The technical artistry of the film's practical animatronics A few exhilarating, laugh-out-loud moments of horror comedy A surprisingly accessible story Too few genuine scares throughout Several superfluous characters and subplots An overlong runtime In the nine years since it began, the Five Nights at Freddy’s franchise has grown to become one of the biggest properties in video game history. As the series’ popularity has grown, so, too, has the complexity of its in-world lore and the backstories of its central, uncannily scary animatronic killers. Nowadays, all it takes is a quick Google search for someone to find out everything they’d ever possibly need to know about Bonnie, Chica, Foxy, Freddy Fazbear, and the family pizza restaurant they haunt. It’s easy to forget now that the series itself started out as nothing more than a simple point-and-click horror game about checking video monitors, locking doors, and resource management.
The most disappointing thing about Five Nights at Freddy’s , Universal and Blumhouse’s new live-action adaptation of the popular video game franchise, is how divorced it feels from its origins. The blockbuster film is anything but simple, and it’s not particularly scary. Instead, the movie is a lore-heavy deep dive into the world and history of its source material — one that delivers more family-friendly moments of animatronic comedy than it does bloodcurdling terror. It isn’t unbearably bad, but it isn’t anything all that memorable, either.
Universal Pictures At the center of Five Nights at Freddy’s is Mike Schmidt (Josh Hutcherson), a down-on-his-luck mall cop who loses his job after mistaking a moment of tension between a father and son for an actual kidnapping. Forced to find a new gig in order to maintain custody of his kid sister, Abby (Piper Rubio), Mike accepts an offer from his career counselor, Steve Raglan (Matthew Lillard), to become the new night security guard at Freddy Fazbear’s Pizza, a decrepit, long-closed family restaurant from the 1980s. During his first few shifts, Mike not only begins experiencing strangely vivid dreams, but also attracts the attention of Vanessa (Elizabeth Lail), a local cop who informs him that Freddy Fazbear’s was closed down after several children went missing there.
5 movies like Five Nights at Freddy’s you should watch right now Is Five Nights at Freddy’s streaming? 7 upcoming weird and wild video game adaptations that you should watch What Mike eventually realizes, much to his horror, is that the children who went missing at Freddy Fazbear’s haven’t left the building. As a matter of fact, they have possessed its once state-of-the-art animatronic animals and gotten into the habit of killing anyone they don’t like who steps foot in the abandoned restaurant. When he then brings Abby to work with him one night, Mike unknowingly puts her on the radar of the establishment’s ghostly killers.
Unfortunately, as often as its story opens the door for Five Nights at Freddy’s to hit some truly terrifying beats, it never fully delivers on that front. Instead, every time it seems like the film is going to cross over into some genuinely scary territory, it cuts off its own momentum in order to make way for new exposition dumps and moments of unnecessary relief. Most of these come courtesy of Lail’s Vanessa, whose presence in the film is initially welcome, but feels increasingly superfluous the more times she appears. Contrary to what many may have expected, Five Nights at Freddy’s isn’t concerned with scaring viewers so much as it is with turning its franchise’s established lore into an engaging mystery.
Patti Perret / Universal Pictures On the one hand, Five Nights at Freddy’s attempts to do so work surprisingly well. While those familiar with its video game source material will likely see the full arc of its story coming from a mile away, the film manages to weave the personal journey of Hutcherson’s Mike, nothing more than a faceless playable character in the original Five Nights at Freddy’s video game, into the backstory of its haunted restaurant in ways that are often seamless and ingenious. When it leans further into the campiness of its setting and premise, the film is even able to occasionally achieve a darkly comedic tone that is both endearing and impressive.
As admirable and outside-of-the-box as its intentions are, though, it’s hard not to shake the sense throughout Five Nights at Freddy’s , which clocks in at 109 minutes long, that it has gotten a bit too lost in the weeds of its own story. Several of the later scenes between Lail’s Vanessa and Hutcherson’s Mike strive for a profundity that the film never quite achieves. By choosing to focus so much on the parallels between Mike’s past and the tragic backstories of its possessed animatronic killers, the movie also frequently veers too far into a Wikipedia page style of storytelling that prioritizes Easter eggs and exposition over any present-tense drama or horror.
Patti Perret / Universal Pictures The mostly toned-down nature of the film might not seem so disappointing were it not for the fact that its rare moments of bloodshed are among its most striking. One second-act sequence, which follows a group of teenagers as they break into Freddy Fazbear’s, is so brutal and funny that it’ll likely leave many viewerswishing there were more scenes like it throughout the film. Emma Tammi’s directorial skills are most apparent during sequences like the one described above, as is the awe-inspiring artistry of the movie’s central animatronics, which were created practically by the craftsmen at Jim Henson’s Creature Shop.
In the end, Five Nights at Freddy’s just doesn’t let its biggest stars shine. To its credit, the film succeeds at making what is, on paper, an overly complex story about a haunted pizza restaurant feel shockingly and refreshingly accessible, but it does so at the cost of both its director and its scene-stealing monsters. Whether or not the movie would have been more successful had it stuck closer to the straightforward, point-and-click formula of the original Five Nights at Freddy’s video game is hard to say, but if there’s one thing the new film proves, it’s that sometimes simpler really is better.
Five Nights at Freddy’s is now playing in theaters and streaming on Peacock.
Editors' Recommendations Among Us could be the next hit video game movie like Five Nights at Freddy’s. Here’s why 3 great PG-13 horror movies to check out if you like the Five Nights at Freddy’s movie Peacock unveils Halloween Horror lineup featuring Chucky and Five Nights at Freddy’s Animatronics attack in new trailer for Five Nights at Freddy’s Like Tetris? Here are 5 underrated movies about video games Product Reviews Entertainment There was a period in the 1960s when Marvel Comics ruled the world of monsters. Series like Tales to Astonish and Journey Into Mystery introduced readers to one terrifying -- and typically, giant-sized -- creature after another, years before Marvel turned its full attention to superhero stories.
The ubiquitous success of the Marvel Cinematic Universe these days seems poised to transform Marvel's monster era into a relic of simpler (and perhaps, weirder) times, but Disney's Werewolf By Night suggests the studio isn't ready to cast it aside just yet.
Entertainment From its chaotic, underwater first frame all way to its liberating, sun-soaked final shot, God’s Creatures is full of carefully composed images. There’s never a moment across the film’s modest 94-minute runtime in which it feels like co-directors Saela Davis and Anna Rose Holmer aren’t in full control of what’s happening on-screen. Throughout much of God’s Creatures’ quietly stomach-churning second act, that sense of directorial control just further heightens the tension that lurks beneath the surface of the film’s story.
In God's Creatures' third act, however, Holmer and Davis’ steady grip becomes a stranglehold, one that threatens to choke all the drama and suspense out of the story they’re attempting to tell. Moments that should come across as either powerful punches to the gut or overwhelming instances of emotional relief are so underplayed that they are robbed of much of their weight. God's Creatures, therefore, ultimately becomes an interesting case study on artistic restraint, and, specifically, how too calculated a style can, if executed incorrectly, leave a film feeling unsuitably cold.
Entertainment Animated adaptations of video games are in a surprisingly good place right now -- particularly on Netflix, where shows like Arcane, Castlevania, and even Carmen Sandiego have delivered rewarding extensions of their respective franchises. That continues with Cyberpunk: Edgerunners, which serves up a wild anime adventure set in the world of 2020's Cyberpunk 2077.
Directed by Hiroyuki Imaishi (Gurren Lagann) and Hiromi Wakabayashi (Star Wars: Visions), Cyberpunk: Edgerunners follows a teenage boy pulled into a dark world of high-tech mercenaries known as "Edgerunners." As he's drawn ever deeper into the world of body modification and corporate espionage, David (voiced by Zach Aguilar in the English version of the series) soon finds himself struggling to figure out what's truly important and where to draw the line when it comes to his cybernetic implants.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
