Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix F1 Live Stream Stranger Things Season 5 Best New Movies Most Popular Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney+ UFC Live Stream Best Movies on Disney+ Home Entertainment Reviews Gen V review: an entertaining, imperfect spinoff of The Boys By Alex Welch Close A likable, diverse cast of characters An engaging conspiracy plot Several surprisingly moving subplots It takes several episodes for the show to really get going An inconsistent tone throughout Certain storylines lack the nuance they require For better and for worse, Gen V is exactly the show it says it is. The series, Prime Video’s latest spinoff of The Boys , takes place in the same alternate reality and time frame as its parent show.
Gen V even adopts the same heavily satirical tone that has helped The Boys stand out in Hollywood’s overcrowded superhero genre. The new series is, in fact, just as mean-spirited, cynical, and unrepentantly gross as its Amazon predecessor. Unlike The Boys , though, Gen V doesn’t focus on the adult superheroes that essentially lord over its fictional world.
Instead, the series takes place at the Godolkin University School of Crimefighting, a college campus for young superheroes that’s overseen by the villainous Vought International corporation. Its characters are an assortment of superpowered, insecure teenagers who are desperate to secure their places in Gen V ’s ruthless, often manipulative world. The show, in other words, attempts to combine the signature, darkly comedic tone of The Boys with a fairly familiar, college-set coming-of-age story. The results are about as odd, uneven, endearing, and occasionally infuriating as you might imagine.
Brooke Palmer / Prime Video At the center of Gen V is Marie Moreau (Jaz Sinclair), a young girl whose adolescent discovery of her own, blood-bending superpowers resulted in the traumatic and violent deaths of both her parents. Raised mostly in an orphanage for young superheroes like her, Marie gets a chance to turn her life around when she is accepted into Godolkin University — the same college where iconic “heroes” like The Boys ‘ A-Train (Jessie T. Usher), Queen Maeve (Dominique McElligott), and The Deep (Chace Crawford) were all trained.
3 dramas on Prime Video you need to watch in November 3 sci-fi movies on Prime Video you need to watch in November 3 great rom-coms on Prime Video you need to watch in November Once there, Marie quickly catches the attention of the school’s most popular seniors: Jordan Li (played by two actors, London Thor and Derek Luh), a bi-gender shifter with super strength; Andre Anderson (Chance Perdomo), an unambitious metal bender; Cate Dunlap (Maddie Phillips), a telepath with compulsion abilities; and Luke Riordan, aka Golden Boy (Patrick Schwarzenegger), a popular student with invincibility and pyrokinesis. Of everyone in his social circle, Luke seems destined to achieve the most success, but his, Marie, and all of his friends’ dreams are shaken when they stumble upon a dangerous, Vaught-run conspiracy at their school.
To say much more about Gen V ’s plot would be to spoil many of its biggest creative gambles, most of which start to roll in after the explosive conclusion of its purposefully slow premiere. The series is at its best throughout its first six episodes, which were the only installments provided to critics early, whenever it feels the freest to be its own thing. The show’s first two chapters are its slowest, weakest, and least focused, and they’re the episodes of Gen V that feel the most like The Boys.
 They feature the series’ grossest gags and most violent moments and frequently split their focus between Gen V ’s young adult leads and its Vaught-controlled adults — namely, a blowhard professor named Richard Brinkerhoff (Clancy Brown) and Godolkin University’s manipulative dean, Indira Shetty (Shelley Conn).
Brooke Palmer / Prime Video It isn’t until Gen V ’s third and fourth episodes that the show begins to find its groove. Most of the relationship dynamics between its central characters remain unfocused until its fourth installment, as the series’ creative team seems unsure, at first, whether it wants to make its core heroes as coldly villainous and unlikable as those featured in The Boys.
 Once the show abandons that idea, everything in it starts to work a whole lot better. From that point on, Gen V begins to feel more and more like its own series.
Its decision to portray its young leads not as monstrous, arrogant tyrants, but as kids whose lives have been controlled by the adults around them imbues it with more depth and pathos than The Boys , which befits its coming-of-age narrative. The more openly it lays out the tragedies of its young heroes’ lives, the more Gen V ’s core performers begin to shine, too. That’s particularly true for Sinclair and Phillips, whose Marie and Cate find their beliefs tested in ways that neither see coming. Lizze Broadway similarly gives a standout turn as Emma Meyer, Marie’s insecure roommate, whose shrinking powers demand a greater physical and emotional cost than she’s willing to admit.
Brooke Palmer / Prime Video As is the case with The Boys , Gen V is about as subtle as a sledgehammer, which allows it to be just as raunchy and outrageously funny as its parent series. That fact is also what prevents it from exploring many of its characters’ personal issues, like Marie’s self-harming tendencies and Emma’s body image struggles, with the nuance that they demand. The series, perhaps fittingly or not, frequently falls into the same trap as HBO’s Euphoria , another teen dramedy that tries to tackle so many different, important issues that it fails to explore most of them with the sensitivity and introspection that they demand.
Gen V is, consequently, a series that is at its most effortlessly watchable when it keeps its ambitions relatively small. In just six episodes, it has established enough likable characters and compelling relationships to function well as a pulpy, superpowered teen melodrama. It is, notably, unclear whether the show will be as reluctant to shake up its own status quo in its future episodes as The Boys has proven to be.
 If it ends up being just as dramatically static as its Prime Video predecessor, that could damage Gen V ’s ability to run for multiple seasons. For right now, though, the series is a perfectly fine addition to Amazon’s satirical superhero universe, one that works best when it keeps its goals and ideas as low to the ground as possible.
The first three episodes of Gen V are streaming now on Amazon Prime Video. New installments release weekly on Fridays. Digital Trends was given early access to the series’ first six episodes.
Editors' Recommendations The best movies on Amazon Prime Video (November 2023) 3 action movies on Prime Video you need to watch in November 3 comedies on Prime Video you need to watch in November 3 TV comedies on Prime Video you need to watch in November 3 underrated movies on Prime Video you need to watch in November Amazon Amazon Prime Video Product Reviews Streaming Services Entertainment Amazon Prime Video has plenty of high-profile shows. Most recently, these include Gen V, a critically praised spinoff of The Boys, and Upload, which concludes its third season this month. But there are other shows, new and older, that sometimes fly under the radar.
What about an exciting hidden gem to check out that maybe your friends and family haven’t seen yet? Check out these three underrated shows on Prime Video you need to watch in November.
Romancero ? Romancero ? | Tráiler oficial | Prime Video España Entertainment There are only two months left in 2023, but Amazon Prime Video saved one of its best original shows for November. Invincible is back for its second season on Friday, November 3, and it takes superhero action to the next level. Much like Spider-Man: Across the Spider-Verse, Invincible is able to do more with the comic book style and storylines in animation than anything in live-action can match. It's also a show that isn't afraid to go into darker territory.
The Christmas movies are also out in force this month on Prime Video, including eight different VeggieTales Christmas flicks ... which seems excessive. Fortunately, there's a lot of non-holiday fare to enjoy, like the first five Fast and Furious films, as well as Master And Commander: The Far Side of the World, which is celebrating its 20th anniversary this month.
Deals It would be almost impossible to make it through life these days without hearing about Amazon Prime because it is one of the largest ecommerce storefronts ever. What you really need to know is that the online retailer's premium subscription comes with a boatload of great benefits and services. You might be a bit less familiar with Amazon Prime Video, though. Prime Video is Amazon's streaming service that competes with the likes of Netflix and Hulu, offering a wide variety of shows, movies, and Prime original series. There are a couple of ways to get Prime Video, but it's not free. However, if you're here, you're probably looking for an answer to the burning question: Is there an Amazon Prime Video free trial? We've got the answer, and more, below.
Is there an Amazon Prime Video free trial? There is indeed an Amazon Prime Video free trial, but it's tied into the Prime free trial, which lasts for a month and may or may not be available to you. To see if you're eligible, you'll need to and check. The general rule is that the Prime free trial (and by extension, an Amazon Prime Video free trial) is available to Amazon accounts that have either never signed up for a Prime trial or have not had Prime -- either a trial or paid membership -- any time in the last 12 months.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
