Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix F1 Live Stream Stranger Things Season 5 Best New Movies Most Popular Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney+ UFC Live Stream Best Movies on Disney+ Home Entertainment Features Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Forget Loki; Invincible is the best superhero show you’re not watching right now By David Caballero Close Against all odds, Prime Video has made a strong name for itself in the world of streaming. From movies to television shows, the service has become a bonafide competitor in the industry, thanks to a healthy and remarkably diverse library.
The best shows on Amazon Prime Video include critical darlings like The Marvelous Mrs. Maisel , pop culture phenomenons like The Boys , and acclaimed underrated gems like Upload.
 However, I would argue that Prime Video’s strongest offering is the animated superhero show Invincible , returning for its second season today.
A world of gods and monsters The nature of heroism Superhero fatigue? Not with this show Created by Robert Kirkman and based on the eponymous comic book series by Kirkman, Cory Walker, and Ryan Ottley, Invincible follows Mark Grayson, a teenage superhero with an impressive collection of powers. The second season chronicles Mark’s attempts to recover from the season 1 finale, which saw his father, the superhero Omni-Man, reveal himself as an agent for the Viltrum empire sent to subdue Earth. The now-infamous final episode of season 1, Where I Really Come From , featured a savage fight between father and son that destroyed Chicago and left Mark severely injured. Season 2 begins with Omni-Man gone and Mark trying to recover some sense of normalcy.
The coolest animated movies and shows that are worth watching Although Invincible has received glowing reviews and is a strong performer for Prime Video, the show remains somewhat underappreciated by mainstream audiences. And it’s a shame because few, if any, animated shows currently airing on television have the same degree of depth and sheer entertainment value as Invincible.
 Season 2 improves on everything that made season 1 great, expanding its world – ahem, galaxy, more like it, and delivering an impressive sophomore effort. If you aren’t already, you should definitely see Invincible , and here’s why.
A world of gods and monsters Image via Amazon Studios Watching Invincible Season 2 reminded me a lot of another animated show that I love: the brilliant and messy Young Justice.
 Developed by Greg Weisman and Brandon Vietti, Young Justice also follows a group of teenagers from the main corners of the DC Universe. Like Young Justice , Invincible is massive in scope, for better and worse.
Both shows march to the beat of their own drums; they introduce characters before seemingly dropping them, only for them to return episodes later, tying everything together in beautifully unexpected ways. Both shows take sudden detours to focus on minor characters, relegating their main players to supporting roles. More importantly, both shows are unafraid to take risks and ruffle feathers; they make bold and inspired choices and don’t shy away from hitting pause on storylines that might otherwise seem too important to ignore.
Warner Bros.
This ballsy approach allows Invincible to feel refreshing and surprising. It’s not the blood and guts that shock – although, rest assured, there’s plenty of that in the first four episodes – but rather the show’s commitment to presenting a patient, slow-building, character-driven story in a genre that often feels like a collection of action set pieces. Like Young Justice , Invincible is the rare show that expertly juggles the present and future. Like a delicate house of cards, each character, each decision, and dialog means something, even if you can’t figure it out straight away.
But Invincible understands its genre and delivers more than enough action set pieces and immediate revelations to keep things moving. It’s a delicate, incredibly challenging balance, and the fact that it can pull it off and make it seem so effortless is a restatement of its sheer genius.
The nature of heroism Image via Amazon Studios One thing that instantly stands out about Invincible Season 2 is how character-driven it is. In a genre where plot often takes precedence over individual characterizations, Invincible boldly allows its players to actively drive the story and not the other way around. This simple choice allows it to feel resonant and impactful; the characters care about each other and themselves, and so we care about them.
Surprisingly, season 2 of Invincible is also remarkably sad. Each of the first four episodes is filled with pathos and a lingering sense of dread as we watch the characters go through hell and back. Regret, guilt, longing, and pain are major themes throughout the season, presented in a brutally earnest way I don’t think any other modern superhero project has dared tackle. Mark and his mother, Debbie, bear the weight of this torment, aided by exceptional voice acting courtesy of Steven Yeun ( Beef ) and Sandra Oh ( Killing Eve ).
Season 2 of Invincible is exceptionally mature, not because of the violence, but because it understands the crushing weight of feeling any emotion as an adult. Following a stomach-churning start, the show moves to an extended sequence set to the tune of Radiohead’s Karma Police , which perfectly sets the stage for what’s coming. From then, it becomes an exercise in escalation, taking its characters -and its audience – through the wide specter of emotions. There’s real hurt here, and the writers and actors dive head-first into this pool of pain. By embracing its suffering, Invincible emerges stronger and better.
Superhero fatigue? Not with this show Image via Amazon Studios The superhero genre is in shambles. Once the mighty giant trampling over the tiny peasant at its feet, now the MCU sucks , churning out one mediocre, half-baked project after another. Elsewhere, James Gunn hides behind the July 2025 release of Superman: Legacy , unable, or perhaps unwilling, to reveal more about his plans to resuscitate the comatose DC Universe.
Thus, Invincible arrives at a critical time for the genre. Are audiences tired of caped adventures, or are they just tired of bad caped adventures? I’m willing to bet the answer is the latter. Look at Prime Video’s own Gen V , which might’ve not been the same juggernaut as The Boys but made a lot more noise than Marvel’s last three efforts combined.
Adult Swim’s My Adventures with Superman was a moderate hit , attracting a small but potent fan base and hinting at a much bigger second season.
Audiences aren’t fatigued by the superhero genre; they’re just looking for something better than lazy, run-of-the-mill stuff.
Invincible is just that. It’s big, bold, loud, thrilling, heart-wrenching, and unbelievably rewarding. As subtle as a kick to the privates yet as thoughtful as a kind word of comfort, Invincible is everything a superhero show should be. Ironically, and much like Mark Grayson himself, its greatest strength lies in its innate humanity.
Invincible is gory, funny, occasionally sexy, and always entertaining. Its real strength, however, lies in its willingness to feel; more superhero properties should follow suit.
Invincible season 2 is currently streaming on Prime Video.
Editors' Recommendations What you need to know about The Boys before season 3 premieres Amazon Amazon Prime Video Features Streaming Services Entertainment Few comics outside of the world of comic book movies and superheroes have had greater influence in recent years than Scott Pilgrim vs. the World. The story was created by author Bryan Lee O'Malley and follows a man named Scott living in Toronto who is forced to battle the evil exes of a girl that he's interested in.
The legacy of Scott Pilgrim only increased after a movie adaptation was released several years later and became a cult classic in its own right. Now, with the new animated series adaptation Scott Pilgrim Takes Off streaming on Netflix, we're here to make the case that Scott Pilgrim is the best comic book ever. Here are 10 reasons why: It has a unique sensibility Entertainment On November 20, 1973, Charlie Brown and the Peanuts taught us to count our blessings and appreciate the important things in life in A Charlie Brown Thanksgiving. In the Emmy Award-winning animated special, Charlie and Sally Brown are supposed to head to their grandmother's house for Thanksgiving. Before they can leave, Peppermint Patty invites herself and a few friends over for dinner. Even though he can't cook, Charlie Brown decides to improvise and cook a simple meal with the help of Snoopy and Linus before heading to his grandma's.
Though not as popular as A Charlie Brown Christmas and It's the Great Pumpkin, Charlie Brown, A Charlie Brown Thanksgiving is still quite effective in conveying the true meaning of the holiday. It's an appropriate tribute to Thanksgiving. Here's how to watch A Charlie Brown Thanksgiving.
Watch A Charlie Brown Thanksgiving on Apple TV+ Entertainment This week is a particularly memorable one for Netflix's original series with two big premieres. The Crown – the British drama that has been one of the most popular shows on Netflix since its premiere in 2016 – is heading towards the finish line with the premiere of its sixth and final season. Additionally, the cult classic film and comic, Scott Pilgrim vs. the World, is getting a new anime series, Scott Pilgrim Takes Off.
With the Thanksgiving holiday coming next week, there's never been a better time to catch up on what's new on Netflix. You may even need the breather because it's been a busy year for Netflix. Don't worry, our weekly update of the best shows on Netflix will always be updated on Fridays to help you plan your weekend binge.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
