Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix F1 Live Stream Stranger Things Season 5 Best New Movies Most Popular Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney+ UFC Live Stream Best Movies on Disney+ Home Entertainment Reviews No One Will Save You review: a lean, mean alien invasion thriller By Alex Welch Close Kaitlyn Dever's commanding, largely silent lead performance Brian Duffield's minimalistic, lean screenplay A nerve-racking first act A few tonally inconsistent moments throughout A third act that doesn't totally hit the mark What would you do if you woke up in the middle of the night to find your front door open and an alien walking around the first floor of your house? That’s the dilemma No One Will Save You presents, and that shouldn’t be considered a spoiler because it happens well within the film’s first 10 minutes. Part of the thriller’s brilliance, in fact, lies in just how uninterested it is in padding out its taut 93-minute runtime. Once it has taken the time necessary to introduce its heroine, Kaitlyn Dever’s socially ostracized Brynn, No One Will Save You is ready to start delivering on the sci-fi promises of its alien invasion premise.
And deliver it does. Over the course of its delightfully bare-bones story, the film, which comes from writer-director Brian Duffield, continually finds new ways to scare, surprise, and trap its perpetually confused protagonist in unexpected, horrifying situations. Not all of its beats lead to the most logically sound or tonally consistent resolutions, but the manner in which the film so relentlessly tortures Dever’s Brynn ensures that it’s never anything but gripping. That’s an impressive feat, and it’s made even more so by the fact that nary a single line of dialogue is delivered throughout the thriller.
3 sci-fi movies on Tubi you need to watch in November 5 movies on Hulu that are perfect to watch in the fall 5 sci-fi movies on Netflix you need to watch in October The film is as minimalistic as it gets, and while its quiet release on Hulu is a disappointing fate to befall it, that doesn’t stop No One Will Save You from emerging as one of the year’s most entertaining and original sci-fi offerings.
20th Century Studios At the center of the film’s plot is Dever’s Brynn, a quiet, socially anxious young woman who lives alone in a remote house located several miles outside of her small, secluded hometown. As the movie’s purposefully spare opening five minutes reveal, Brynn has grown used to spending her days watching other people from afar, shipping the kind of homemade items you’d find on Etsy, and writing mysteriously apologetic letters to her childhood friend, Maude. Her already unfulfilling existence is turned upside down when she receives a visit one night from an obtuse, gray-skinned alien capable of telekinetically switching Brynn’s electricity on and off and dragging her across a room at will.
This encounter, which Duffield wisely stretches out until it takes up the majority of No One Will Save You ’s first third, is as ceaselessly intense as any sequence from any of this year’s other genre films. While Duffield’s direction throughout is, like the film itself, relatively straightforward and unfussy, he makes brilliant use of his frame’s foreground and background spaces — constantly introducing an alien outline in the frame of a door that Brynn has just ducked around. The director similarly makes effective, economic use of his heroine’s multilevel craftsman house — using wooden staircase panels and the marbled glass of her kitchen dividers to obscure the arrival of the set piece’s central extraterrestrial villain.
These techniques are all relatively simple, but the effect they achieve is nonetheless impressive.
No One Will Save You ’s first act is, for the most part, a collection of well-staged visual gags that turn its isolated house into an equivalent of the labyrinth from Greek legend and Dever’s Brynn into a stand-in for Theseus, the hero destined to evade and kill the dangerous creature roaming within. Duffield, to his further credit, patiently builds up the tension of Brynn’s first alien encounter before bringing it to a sudden end with a burst of violence that is well-choreographed and visually well-executed.
20th Century Studios Once No One Will Save You ’s second act begins, the film’s grip on its own sci-fi logic begins to loosen. Duffield finds plenty of ways to believably trap his heroine in a seemingly inescapable situation, including one nonverbal scene between her and her town’s chief of police that is stunning in its emotional brutality, but a few of the film’s second-act developments inject shades of absurd horror into it a bit too abruptly to work or land with any real force. The thriller’s visual effects are similarly uneven in their quality and presentation, though Duffield uses several simple cutting and blocking techniques to make up for that fact.
Its narrative and visual flaws aside, the film represents a major step up in almost every way from Duffield’s 2020 directorial debut, Spontaneous.
 That high-concept dramedy, although charming in its own absurd way, didn’t do much to announce Duffield as a technical craftsman.
No One Will Save You , with its coldly effective visual storytelling and lean plotting, does that and more. While its straight-to-streaming release may have robbed it of the positive word-of-mouth it could have garnered from theatergoing audiences, the film is still the kind of well-crafted genre thriller that should open enough doors to let Duffield do whatever he wants next.
As for Dever, No One Will Save You only further cements her as one of the more fearless and capable young actresses of her generation. The film asks a lot of her physically — forcing her to go head-to-head with several CGI aliens, most of whom tower over her — but it’s the way she tackles her character’s silent streak that makes the biggest impression. Few actresses working today would likely be interested in leading a 90-minute film in which they’re given only one perceptible line of dialogue, but even fewer could overcome that hurdle as effortlessly as Dever. Never at any point throughout No One Will Save You is it unclear what Brynn is thinking or feeling, and that’s as integral to the film’s success as its script and direction.
The further No One Will Save You gets into its final third, the more interior, ambiguous, and daring it becomes. After spending much of the film operating in such a coolly economical way, Duffield allows both himself and Dever the chance to untether themselves from reality — if only just a bit. By doing so, the writer-director sets the film up for a conclusion that is confounding and satisfying in equal measure, and which lays the thriller’s various contradictions utterly bare. In the end, No One Will Save You is a lot of a things at the same time. It’s a high-concept drama about an alien invasion and the ostracizing effects of guilt, sure, but it’s also a lean, mean thriller that gets in and out as quickly as it can while making as little of a fuss as possible.
It’s not perfect, but in terms of straightforward sci-fi thrillers, it might as well be the platonic ideal — and it’s already one of this year’s biggest surprise gems.
No One Will Save You is streaming now on Hulu. The movie is just one of September’s sci-fi movies you need to watch.
Editors' Recommendations 5 sci-fi movies on Netflix you need to watch in November 3 underrated sci-fi movies on Amazon Freevee you should watch in November 5 best sci-fi movies from the past 5 years you should watch right now 3 underrated sci-fi movies on Amazon Freevee you should watch in October 3 sci-fi movies on Tubi you need to watch in October Hulu Product Reviews Streaming Services Entertainment This week, Hulu is heading into Huluween with a new original sci-fi/horror film, No One is Going to Save You. And if you like No One is Going to Save You's blend of science fiction and terror then you're going to love the three sci-fi movies we've chosen which have a lot in common with it.
Brian Duffield wrote and directed No One is Going to Save You, which features Dopesick's Kaitlyn Dever in the leading role as Brynn Adams. Dever really has to carry the movie because Brynn is alone for long stretches of time while living a life of self-imposed solitude in her childhood home. Brynn has been hiding from the outside world for years, but she can't hide any longer once an alien invasion begins. Even Brynn's remote home will come under attack from the aliens. And as the title states, no one will be able to save Brynn from this menace. So she'll have to save herself.
Entertainment As streaming heads into a future of bundling and consolidation, one of the more underrated services to keep an eye on is Tubi. As a FAST service, Tubi is free and offers subscribers thousands of hours of programming. The only drawback is users have to watch ads during their movie or TV show, similar to watching a program on cable television.
Once you get past the ads, Tubi has an expansive library with numerous options in all genres, including sci-fi. For September, we narrowed down the list to three sci-fi movies you should watch, including an all-time classic, a vicious monster fight, and a first-person adventure.
Back to the Future (1985) Entertainment One of the many benefits of Netflix is the endless streaming options for movies in genres, including action, horror, sports, comedy, and romance. One genre that continues to add to its expanding library is sci-fi. From thrillers, like Spiderhead and The Titan, to action-adventures, like 65 and Star Trek, the sci-fi section on Netflix hosts multiple subgenres to satisfy all types of moviegoers.
For September, we curated a list of five sci-fi movies available on Netflix that should be seen this month. Some of our selections include a riveting tale from Denis Villeneuve, a political allegory from Bong Joon-ho, and a moral dilemma set in space.
Arrival (2016) Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
