Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix F1 Live Stream Stranger Things Season 5 Best New Movies Most Popular Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney+ UFC Live Stream Best Movies on Disney+ Home Entertainment Reviews Only Murders in the Building season 3 review: just as charming as you remember By Alex Welch Close Meryl Streep's humorous, romantic supporting performance Martin Short's career-best lead turn A more expansive look at New York City A lifeless, directionless subplot for Steve Martin's Charles Another uninteresting love interest for Selena Gomez's Mabel A mystery that keeps its three leads apart too often and for too long In its third season, Only Murders in the Building swaps out the elevators and hidden tunnels of its kooky central New York City apartment building for the expansive auditoriums and perilous backstages of Broadway. Following through on the promise of its season 2 cliffhanger, the Hulu murder mystery’s latest episodes are more expansive and theatrical than returning viewers will likely expect. For some, the season’s decreased focus on the Arconia and its inhabitants may come as a disappointment, but Only Murders in the Building ‘s new, Broadway-driven storyline makes sense for a show that has always been as much a love letter to the City That Never Sleeps as it has been a send-up of true-crime podcasts.
It doesn’t hurt that Only Murders in the Building season 3 features some of the show’s best supporting characters to date. The series wisely says goodbye to wet blanket bummers like Alice Banks (Cara Delevingne) without so much as a second thought, all while giving previously underserved characters like Howard Morris (Michael Cyril Creighton) the chance to positively chew up the scenery. Along the way, several new potential victims and suspects are introduced, including an ambitious influencer (Ashley Park), an egotistical movie star ( Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles: Mutant Mayhem ‘s Paul Rudd), and, most notably, a lifelong actress (Meryl Streep) who finally gets the moment in the spotlight she’s long deserved.
Only Murders in the Building season 2 review: A welcome return Hulu sets a date for Only Murders In the Building season 2 None of the season’s newcomers make as much of a mark as Streep’s Loretta Durkin, whose Broadway dreams are finally made into a reality by Oliver Putnam (Martin Short). Streep is customarily fantastic here, and she fits right in opposite players like Short. It’s strange to say, given how spectacular he’s always been as Oliver, but Short gives what might be the best performance of his career in Only Murders in the Building season 3. Having seen just the season’s first eight episodes, I already feel confident in calling Oliver and Loretta’s unlikely romance a series highlight, one that is, in true Only Murders fashion, inevitably complicated by the suspicious death that hangs over their Broadway show.
Patrick Harbron / Hulu The murder in question involves, as Only Murders in the Building ‘s season 2 finale revealed, Rudd’s childish, occasionally charming Ben Glenroy, a movie star best known for his work in a superhero franchise known as “CoBro.” The parallels between his character’s career and Rudd’s own time spent in the Marvel Cinematic Universe, thankfully, aren’t alluded to as heavily as you’d think. Rudd is, for the most part, an effective bit of stunt casting. He’s someone capable of exuding both movie star charm and childish energy, which makes him perfect to play Glenroy, even if the character himself isn’t given much dimension beyond two key scenes he shares with Short’s Oliver and Mabel Mora (Selena Gomez).
Ben is, like the rest of Only Murders ’ previous victims, only fleshed out in a series of flashbacks sprinkled throughout the season’s episodes. Even with its primarily new setting, the show sticks fairly close to its established format, and it isn’t long after Rudd’s exasperating primadonna has been dispatched with that Mabel, Oliver, and Charles Haden-Savage (Steve Martin) begin exploring the possibility of a third season of their hit true-crime podcast. Unlike previous seasons, though, Mabel, Charles, and Oliver never really come together at any point throughout the first eight episodes of Only Murders in the Building season 3.
Instead, Oliver spends much of the season focused more on recapturing his former Broadway success than tracking down his leading man’s killer. Charles, meanwhile, is repeatedly driven off track by his relationship with Joy (Andrea Martin) and his own ego. After anchoring much of Only Murders in the Building ‘s first season, Martin is more or less left to spin his wheels for much of the series’ newest episodes. His and Joy’s on-again, off-again romance falls flat because the latter is written and performed too broadly to ever feel like a real person, which just makes the waywardness their relationship creates within Martin’s Charles all the more uninteresting.
Patrick Harbron / Hulu As Mabel, Gomez is given the chance to be the most active of the series’ three leads this time around. As a result, there’s extra energy and drive to many of her scenes this season, and Gomez turns in some of her best comedic and dramatic work yet whenever Mabel’s asked to let her frustrations over Charles and Oliver’s disinterest in maintaining their podcast boil over. That said, Only Murders also remains unwilling to let Gomez go one season without being saddled with another lackluster love interest. This time around, that honor is given to Tobert (Jesse Williams), a documentary filmmaker whose male condescension and toxicity render him an utter bore.
There are, of course, bright spots in both Mabel and Charles’ storylines. The former’s heightened ambition and increasing familiarity with her two older, male cohorts allow her to be more openly caring and cutting this season. A running joke involving Charles’ stage fright and inability to perform a “patter song” assigned to him by Oliver also lead to some of the season’s funniest one-liners, reaction shots, and visual gags. At points, Martin even leans all the way into the 1970s stand-up stage persona that made him a forever famous face in American culture.
Only Murders in the Building season 3 is, in other words, often at its best not only when it lets its three leads cook together, but also gives each the chance to truly cut loose.
Patrick Harbron / Hulu The real stars of Only Murders in the Building season 3 are, however, Streep and Short. Their chemistry together breathes a romanticism into the series that hasn’t been felt since the latter half of its first season. The interpersonal drama that stems from their romance is often compelling and surprising as well, making it much easier to forgive the show’s occasionally uneven focus. The season is, in many ways, a familiar riff on Only Murders ’ previous two mysteries. Beyond its Broadway setting and colorful new cast of supporting players, there’s not much that separates it from the seasons that have come before it.
But even if it doesn’t bring many new ingredients to the show’s established formula, Only Murders in the Building season 3 proves that the series is capable of greatness even when it’s operating solely within its own comfort zone. Much like all the old theaters and buildings its characters call home, the novelty may be gone, but the charm remains.
New episodes of Only Murders in the Building season 3 premiere Tuesdays on Hulu.
Digital Trends was given early access to the season’s first eight episodes.
Editors' Recommendations Only Murders in the Building season 3 ending, explained Only Murders in the Building season 2 trailer starts a new mystery Hulu Product Reviews Streaming Services Entertainment November has been a great month for movies at Netflix, with the premiere of David Fincher's The Killer, and recent box office hits like Insidious: The Red Door and Spider-Man: Across the Spider-Verse. This week, the new additions include The Impossible, a 2012 survival thriller that has already landed on the list of the 10 most popular movies on Netflix. For younger viewers, Minions is also heating up the charts despite the pending departure of the other films in the franchise at the end of the month.
There's only one holiday weekend left in November, so what's the best way to stay on top of everything new on Netflix? Why, we are, of course. Our list of the best movies on Netflix right now is updated every Friday, even on holiday weekends, so you can easily find something for every movie lover in your life.
Entertainment Summer is long over, and the fall season is in full swing. It's now late 2023, and just about everyone is subscribed to Netflix and Hulu. But would you be surprised if I told you one of the most underrated streaming services around is Tubi? The upstart streamer has tons of new and old TV shows from every decade and every genre imaginable. Want to watch the buzziest series that aired on Max? Tubi has it. Are you feeling nostalgic about that old movie or cartoon you used to watch as a kid in the '80s or '90s? Chances are, Tubi has it.
Tubi has so much content that it can be hard to choose which shows and films are worth your time. Digital Trends is here to help you sort out which ones are worth watching. Even though the streaming service is free, time is valuable, and no one wants to waste it watching subpar content.
Entertainment Rather than waiting for the Thanksgiving holiday weekend, Apple TV+ and Netflix dropped two of their biggest shows of the fall this week. Netflix's The Crown kicked off its sixth and final season with four new episodes, while the Apple TV+ Godzilla-adjacent series Monarch: Legacy of Monster, dropped its first two episodes this week, with new episodes arriving weekly thereafter. Also this week, Scott Pilgrim Takes Off hits Netflix, while Max gets in on the act this week by premiering the second season of Julia.
Netflix, Amazon Prime Video, Hulu, Max, Apple TV+, Disney+, Paramount+, and Peacock still have new shows coming for the rest of November, including a handful arriving next week. But if you've been thinking about cutting back on your streaming bill, then perhaps you should consider signing up for the ad-supported tiers. In the meantime, keep reading for our weekly roundup of the best new shows to stream.
When you're done here, check out the best new movies to stream this week, as well as the best shows on Netflix, best shows on Hulu, best shows on Amazon Prime Video, and best shows on Disney+.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
