Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix F1 Live Stream Stranger Things Season 5 Best New Movies Most Popular Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney+ UFC Live Stream Best Movies on Disney+ Home Entertainment News Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Paramount+ launches Tis the Season for Streaming holiday collection By Dan Girolamo Close Paramount+ will celebrate the holidays with the “‘Tis the Season for Streaming” collection. For November and December, Paramount+ will offer twice as many holiday movies and TV shows in 2023 than in 2022. This collection of programs can be found in 20 specially curated carousels, ranging from holiday classics to family fun.
Speaking of families, Paramount+ will stream the premieres of two kid-friendly titles.
P AW Patrol: The Mighty Movie, which streams November 14, features the return of the magical puppies who will look to stop Humdinger from stealing their powers.
Baby Shark’s Big Movie , an original movie musical from Nickelodeon based on the popular children’s song, will air on December 8.
The NFL will broadcast games over the holidays, with matchups on Thanksgiving, Christmas Eve, and Christmas Day. America’s Team, the Dallas Cowboys, will continue their annual tradition of playing on Thanksgiving against the Washington Commanders. On Christmas Day, Travis Kelce and the Kansas City Chiefs will host the Las Vegas Raiders in an AFC West showdown.
Paramount Explore the 20 carousels for programs in a variety of genres. Stream popular rom-coms like Bridget Jones’s Diary and A Christmas Proposal all season. Watch special holiday episodes from Frasier , Cheers , Ghosts , SpongeBob SquarePants , Hey Arnold , and Rugrats.
Click here to view the entire holiday collection.
Editors' Recommendations Christmas and holiday program guide 2023: Movies and shows to watch Watch NASA’s trailer teasing next week’s launch of streaming service Is PAW Patrol: The Mighty Movie streaming? Where to watch The Idol season finale: live stream the show Silo season 1’s ending, explained Paramount+ Tech News Audio / Video Paramount Plus — the streaming service once known as CBS All Access — has come a long way in a relatively short amount of time. It started as the streaming home for all things CBS. But executives quickly saw the writing on the well. Streaming was the future, and CBS was an America-only brand.
So in March 2021, a pivot occurred. CBS All Access became Paramount Plus. And soon thereafter, parent company ViacomCBS transitioned into Paramount Global, taking its streaming service worldwide, taking with it exclusive content that otherwise might have remained domestic. (Some still has different global distributors, but that's another problem for another time.) Entertainment The Champions League final kicks off on the hour, with Manchester City taking on Inter Milan in a match that’s should have soccer fans all over the world on the edge of their seats, and there’s a totally legal way to watch the big game — no strings attached. That’s right: there’s a free Man City vs Inter Milan live stream for those in the United States and travelling abroad, and it comes courtesy of Paramount Plus, one of the best live TV streaming services.
Watch the Manchester City vs Inter Milan live stream on Paramount Plus Paramount Plus is one of the premier standalone streaming services, in part because of its high quality original programming like Yellowstone, and in part because of its growing lineup of sports coverage. There’s almost always something new on Paramount Plus to watch, and because Paramount Plus is CBS’ online streaming platform, today that includes the Manchester City vs Inter Milan game. With a Paramount Plus subscription you’ll get access to other soccer games and even the NFL on CBS. A 7-day free trial is available to new subscribers, which will allow you to watch the Manchester City vs Inter Milan live stream for free.
Entertainment The NCAA tournament is back underway today with 1-seed Houston taking on 5-seed Miami University in the Sweet 16. This is a game you don’t want to miss, and you may be wondering how to watch March Madness online. The Houston vs Miami television broadcast is being handled by CBS, which means you’ll be able to watch the live stream on some of the best live TV streaming services, as long as they provide access to your local CBS channel. We’ve tracked down the best places to watch Houston vs Miami online, so read onward for more details. We’ve even nailed down a couple of ways to watch the live stream for free.
Watch the Houston vs Miami live stream on FuboTV FuboTV is one of the best places to watch NCAA basketball throughout the season, and today it’s the place to watch the Houston vs Miami, NCAA tournament game as it offers your local CBS network as part of its channel lineup. FuboTV is a TV streaming service that’s geared for sports lovers, as it offers more than 150 channels that include ESPN, ESPN2, FS1, FS2, Golf Channel, NBA TV, MLB Network, and several Fubo original sports channels. You’ll be able to watch the Houston vs Miami game with a FuboTV subscription, but if you’ve never subscribed to FuboTV before you can take advantage of a 7-day FuboTV free trial. This will allow you watch the Houston vs Miami live stream for free.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
