Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix F1 Live Stream Stranger Things Season 5 Best New Movies Most Popular Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney+ UFC Live Stream Best Movies on Disney+ Home Entertainment Reviews Passages review: Ira Sachs’ portrait of a romantic scoundrel By A.A. Dowd Close Franz Rogowski's fearless performance The sexy sex scenes The economical 92-minute runtime Not the most complex drama Ira Sachs isn't a master of style Rogowski only dances a couple times Any time a director makes a movie about a director, they run the risk of autobiographical readings — of viewers confusing the fictional artist on screen with the real one behind the camera. In that respect, Passages is rather courageous. This slender, unsparing new drama from Ira Sachs ( Little Men , Love is Strange ) does indeed revolve around a filmmaker, and he’s a cad for the ages: a breathtakingly selfish lothario who blows up his love life on a whim. Were the man real, calls for his cancellation would be deafening. What bravery, what fearless restraint it must have taken to not end the movie with a disclaimer insisting that any similarities to directors living or dead are purely superficial.
Sachs, a Tennessean branching out across the pond, might be quick to note that his main character here is a German living and making movies in Paris. We first see Tomas (Franz Rogowski) berating an actor for not walking down the stairs in a convincing way — a brief snapshot of what a demanding perfectionist he can be. On set, Tomas knows exactly what he wants. Off set, not so much, though he’s still more than willing to treat the people in his life like the performers in his movies, bent to the shape of his desire.
Halloween Ends review: a franchise mercy kill Operation Seawolf review: nice Nazis? No thanks! Amsterdam review: An exhausting, overlong conspiracy thriller Tomas is married to a soft-spoken, English graphic artist named Martin (Ben Whishaw) with whom he’s comfortable but clearly a little bored. Early into the film, the director is drawn, on the dance floor of a nightclub, to the younger, flirtier French schoolteacher Agathe (Adèle Exarchopoulos). “I had sex with a woman,” Tomas casually confesses to Martin the next morning, after he goes home with her. “Can I tell you about it?” What looks at first like a mere fling, the pursuit of an exciting new experience, quickly develops into something more serious; before we know it, the artist has left his marriage for a fresh start with Agathe — a surprise, given the implication that he’s only been with men before.
Ben Whishaw in Passages Mubi / Mubi Most of Passages is just these three characters navigating a situation only two of them treat with any emotional sensitivity. For Sachs, it marks a move into a distinctly French school of insular, erotic gabfest. (His last film, Frankie , was European in a more digressively Mediterranean way). The love scenes are frank and passionate — the stars throw themselves hungrily into them — but not all that explicit. The NC-17 rating is proof that the MPA still sees queer sex, however carefully blocked, as scandalous.
Sachs leans heavily on his actors, all terrific. Whishaw, fixing that steady, green-eyed stare to typically sensitive ends, fights a tiny internal war for Martin’s dignity, subtly telegraphing his drift towards or away from forgiveness. And Exarchopoulos maintains the carnal intelligence and ordinary-person naturalism that should have taken her supernova after Blue is the Warmest Color a decade ago. Both make meals out of roles that are fundamentally reactive, playing characters caught in the orbit of an indecisive and magnetically incorrigible lover. There’s a seesaw quality to Passages , which keeps tilting Tomas in and out of his relationships. Is he bisexual, bi-curious, or just hopelessly capricious? This isn’t the director’s first film about a tumultuous, lopsided relationship. His Keep the Lights On , which was quasi-autobiographical, tracked the ups and downs of a romance in the shadow of addiction.
Passages is tighter and more selectively economical than that exhaustive (and appropriately exhausting) string of anecdotes. Sachs has cited the French director Maurice Pialat as an influence, and there’s certainly a touch of his immortal breakup movie We Won’t Grow Old Together , also about the romantic foibles of a film director, in the way Passages keeps speeding ahead to some new status quo, sometimes eliding the moment where one relationship ends and another begins.
Adèle Exarchopoulos in Passages Mubi / Mubi The whole thing is built around Rogowski, the lean, broodingly handsome German actor who played a haunted refugee in Christian Petzold’s Transit and the hollow scion son of Michael Haneke’s Happy End.
 Here, the star lends his character an almost childlike self-centeredness, the kind of disregard for others’ feelings you can usually expect in someone too young to know better; every thoughtless decision comes with a plea for understanding. Not for nothing does the movie last depict Tomas walking through a gymnasium full of kids and then climbing onto a bicycle too small for him — a bit of physical almost-comedy that puts Rogowski’s dancer physicality to good use.
If there are laughs here, they’re the kind reserved for behavior so brazenly unkind that laughter seems like the only proper reaction. If the romance is ever sweet, it’s the sweetness of carrion.
Passages isn’t really a love triangle, because Martin and Agathe aren’t competing with each other; they’re competing against the fickle desires of the same immature lover. The movie may not be intended as any form of self-portrait, but Sachs must know the ways that the privileged position of a director can become a license to see the whole world as a set, and its people as actors waiting around for you to call “Action!” Passages opens in select theaters Friday, August 4.
For more of A.A. Dowd’s writing, please visit his Authory page.
Editors' Recommendations The School for Good and Evil review: Middling magic Decision to Leave review: An achingly romantic noir thriller Conversations with A Killer: The Jeffrey Dahmer Tapes review: killer’s words yield little insight Significant Other review: a scary kind of love Werewolf By Night review: magnificent monster mayhem Product Reviews Entertainment “Had she said no, the film would never have seen the light of day,” director Todd Field said in a statement about his ambitious new drama, Tár. He was, of course, talking about the film’s star, Cate Blanchett, whose reputation as one of Hollywood’s greatest living actresses certainly precedes her at this point. Despite that fact, it would be easy to initially shrug off Field’s comment as nothing more than a pandering or superficial remark. After all, what director wouldn’t say that about the lead star of their film, especially someone of Blanchett’s caliber? Having seen Tár, though, the truth of Field’s comment is undeniably clear. In order for it to cast any kind of spell, Tár requires a performer with Blanchett’s charismatic, towering presence. It demands someone who can not only disappear into a character, but who can do so and still be able to command every scene partner who has the misfortune of being pitted against her. Blanchett does that and more in Tár.
Entertainment The teenage years can be scary, even without the threat of demonic possession. Throw a sinister supernatural element into the mix, and the experience becomes, well ... only slightly more terrifying, actually.
That's one takeaway from director Damon Thomas' My Best Friend's Exorcism, which delivers a scary-fun paranormal thriller filtered through a coming-of-age drama about two teenage girls in the 1980s whose lifelong friendship is threatened when one of them becomes the unwilling host of an infernal entity. That this supernatural encounter occurs while the girls are navigating young adulthood turns the typical social hellscape of high school into something more sinister, and tests their friendship in unexpected and terrifying ways.
Entertainment Director Kenny Ortega's 1993 film Hocus Pocus wasn't a hit when it was first released, but history has been kind to it, and turned it into a Halloween tradition of sorts for children of a particular generation (and their children, in many cases). And because this is a time when everything old is eventually new again -- particularly if it's gained the sort of post-release popularity Hocus Pocus has enjoyed -- Disney has decided to bring the sorcerous Sanderson sisters back for another adventure in Hocus Pocus 2.
Hocus Pocus 2 conjures up original cast members Bette Midler, Sarah Jessica Parker, and Kathy Najimy as Winifred, Sarah, and Mary Sanderson, respectively, the trio of witches who were accidentally resurrected in the 1993 film and terrorized the town of Salem before being defeated by a group of precocious teenagers and a magical black cat. This time around, the film features Step Up and 27 Dresses director Anne Fletcher behind the camera, and follows another group of Salem teenagers who unwittingly unleash the Sanderson sisters on the town again, 29 years after the events of the original film.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
