Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix F1 Live Stream Stranger Things Season 5 Best New Movies Most Popular Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney+ UFC Live Stream Best Movies on Disney+ Home Entertainment Features Platinum Dunes polished horror’s grimy past for a new generation By A.A. Dowd Close Jessica Biel in The Texas Chainsaw Massacre New Line / New Line Horror buffs are not a monolith. Broach the topic of Rob Zombie or A24 with a group of them and you’ll see how widely opinions can vary. But in the early 2000s, there was something on which every card-carrying fright fan seemed to agree — a new trend that united the whole genre against a common enemy, like the monster of The Architects of Fear.
If you fancied yourself a true horror fan back then, there was a very good chance that you despised Platinum Dunes and its line of slick, profitable horror remakes with every fiber of your being.
Founded in 2001, Platinum Dunes was a production company by Michael Bay, director of bombastic action blockbusters like Armageddon , The Rock , and Bad Boys.
 The business plan was to finance Hollywood movies on lower budgets, with a specific focus on horror. Though the company greenlit a few original projects in its early days (and eventually found new success with The Purge and A Quiet Place series), most of its resources were devoted to vacuuming up the rights to ’70s and ’80s classics and giving them a 21st-century spit shine.
Platinum Dunes remade five movies in eight years, beginning with Tobe Hooper’s timeless slaughterhouse nightmare The Texas Chain Saw Massacre.
 After its cover version of that milestone did big business in October of 2003, Bay turned his attentions to the bastardization of other enduringly popular video-store staples: the dubiously fact-based haunted-house chiller The Amityville Horror ; the cult ’80s stranger-danger thriller The Hitcher ; and two of the most milked-dry slasher franchises of them all, Friday the 13th and A Nightmare on Elm Street.
 Dunes also found room for a Leatherface origin story, The Texas Chainsaw Massacre: The Beginning.
Right from the start, these movies were reviled, critically and in fan circles. Their reputation has not improved. The Chain Saw remake, which just turned 20, remains the easiest target, thanks to what it precipitated: Much of the larger 2000s horror remake trend — a decade of regurgitated scares, a ruthless raiding of the genre vaults — can be traced back to that movie’s robust box-office performance. Likewise, the new Chain Saw set the template for the Platinum Dunes do-overs to come. The crisp, air-brushed aesthetic. The mercenary repetition of key shots and scenes and jolts. The sanding down of everything gritty and outsider-art weird about the originals. It all started with Marcus Nispel’s redundant trip to the Texas boonies.
The color-corrected look of Platinum Dunes — a more atmospheric variation on the sweat-coated, magic-hour glow of Bay’s own movies — had an ironic architect: It was cinematographer Daniel Pearl, who shot the original Chain Saw and was brought back for the remake, who proposed that they tack far away from the raw, snuff-film graininess of Hooper’s film. “There’s no point in making the exact same film with the exact same look,” Pearl would say before the remake’s release, and he had a point. Why trace over a masterpiece? Of course, remaking one at all poses something close to the same question.
The Dunes remakes don’t exactly soften their recycled material. Most of them are every bit as violent as the grimier movies they splash in a new coat of paint. If anything, some of them are actually more explicit. The 2003 Chainsaw is in many ways the assaultive gorefest the title implies, replacing the disturbing but not especially bloody torment of the original with lots of sharply photographed carnage. The real thing about the remakes is that they give all that violence a mall-friendly polish, shooting B-movie thrills like fashion spreads.
You could call it the Bayification of horror, except with very little of the abstract, kinetic, frankly lunatic kaleidoscope qualities of his headache-inducing work — the stuff that’s earned the director a following among connoisseurs of mainstream trash-art. Most of the films’ directors, like Nispel and David Meyers and Samuel Bayer, cut their teeth on commercials and music videos, just as Bay had. They seemed similarly obsessed with surface effect but without Bay’s signature quick-cut freneticism. They made movies like they were still trying to sell the audience something.
Rogue Pictures Narratively, the Dunes remakes feel a little focus-grouped, too. They cut their slick brutality with weirdly sentimental revisions — little plot points intended to appease a hypothetical multiplex audience. You can almost hear the studio notes. “Can the Sawyer family have a cute, mutant kid, too, like a little brother for Leatherface? What if Jason kidnapped pretty women instead of just butchering them? What if the beleaguered hero of The Hitcher also had a hot girlfriend along for the ride ?” The last of those films, by the way, is probably the worst of the bunch. It takes a nasty oddball road movie and flattens its personality, emerging with a generic pod-person take on The Hitcher.
 Any comparison at all to the original — the most left-field of the Dunes acquisitions — does it no favors. Likewise, the Chainsaw remake would probably look like watchable designer junk — it’s plenty intense at least — were it viewed in a void. But it can’t escape the shadow of the eternal gauntlet of terror it’s poorly imitating; there’s a ’70s cosplay quality to it, like watching models throw a costume party. Same with the prequel.
By contrast, the generic Amityville Horror — starring an unconvincingly serious Ryan Reynolds — benefits from rehashing a movie that was no classic to begin with. And though the Friday the 13th remake lacks some of the flavor of the more endearingly dopey installments, it really isn’t much better, worse, or even different than what came before. The F13 movies have always been unabashedly lizard-brained. At the very least, one can point to a few good kills in the remake (pity the pretty coed who gets a blade through the top of her noggin), and isn’t that all we really ask of Friday the 13th ? At the risk of inciting a mob like the one that barbecues Freddy Krueger, let it be said that the Elm Street remake is the most interesting of the Dunes cycle.
 Yes, it lifts shamelessly from Wes Craven’s original, settling for the stolen valor of copy-and-pasted scares — the bedroom massacre, the gloved hand in the bathwater, etc. — over doing much new in the dream-kill department. But it also makes explicit the implication that Krueger is a child molester, a queasy twist that supplies a new kind of dread that’s not in Craven’s movie: Here, Freddy becomes a literal return of the repressed, a monster rising from the traumatized recesses of the teens’ minds. That’s a provocative tweak and one that rescues this widely maligned film from charges of purely lazy plagiarism.
Nu- Elm Street ‘s intriguing edits aside, all of these movies are creatively dubious. They bring to mind tasteless remodelers, snatching up historic properties and painting over their original molding. Or modern apparel companies selling phony “vintage” T-shirts. They make gleaming multiplex products from another era’s rougher entertainment. They are monuments to Hollywood’s lack of new ideas and prime examples of commodified nostalgia.
New Line Cinema There’s also something very 2000s about ultra-slick popcorn movies this unpleasantly violent. Several of the films Platinum Dunes remade felt unmistakably touched by Vietnam. The war is certainly there in Texas Chain Saw Massacre , with its grainy celluloid vision of madness and senseless death, and in Friday the 13th , a portrait of teen slaughter with viscerally anatomical gore effects by a former war photographer. In updating those movies for the aughts, Platinum Dunes abstractly captured the spirit of a different wartime, a bloodthirsty modern America watching mass death and destruction on crisp video feeds. The remakes are like processed food for the War on Terror age.
There are many reasons to dislike them, even the ones interesting in their flaws. What dooms the Dunes canon is what dooms all remakes of classics: There’s no real reason for them to exist beyond pure studio cannibalism. Most of them are simply needless, which is arguably worse than bad. Hatred for them no longer seems necessary. They now look more like relics than the films they remake. They will be forgotten. Fanbases will forever elude them.
Most of the Platinum Dunes remakes are streaming on Max, if you’re into that sort of thing.
For more of A.A. Dowd’s writing, please visit his Authory page.
Features Entertainment November has been a great month for movies at Netflix, with the premiere of David Fincher's The Killer, and recent box office hits like Insidious: The Red Door and Spider-Man: Across the Spider-Verse. This week, the new additions include The Impossible, a 2012 survival thriller that has already landed on the list of the 10 most popular movies on Netflix. For younger viewers, Minions is also heating up the charts despite the pending departure of the other films in the franchise at the end of the month.
There's only one holiday weekend left in November, so what's the best way to stay on top of everything new on Netflix? Why, we are, of course. Our list of the best movies on Netflix right now is updated every Friday, even on holiday weekends, so you can easily find something for every movie lover in your life.
Entertainment Summer is long over, and the fall season is in full swing. It's now late 2023, and just about everyone is subscribed to Netflix and Hulu. But would you be surprised if I told you one of the most underrated streaming services around is Tubi? The upstart streamer has tons of new and old TV shows from every decade and every genre imaginable. Want to watch the buzziest series that aired on Max? Tubi has it. Are you feeling nostalgic about that old movie or cartoon you used to watch as a kid in the '80s or '90s? Chances are, Tubi has it.
Tubi has so much content that it can be hard to choose which shows and films are worth your time. Digital Trends is here to help you sort out which ones are worth watching. Even though the streaming service is free, time is valuable, and no one wants to waste it watching subpar content.
Entertainment Rather than waiting for the Thanksgiving holiday weekend, Apple TV+ and Netflix dropped two of their biggest shows of the fall this week. Netflix's The Crown kicked off its sixth and final season with four new episodes, while the Apple TV+ Godzilla-adjacent series Monarch: Legacy of Monster, dropped its first two episodes this week, with new episodes arriving weekly thereafter. Also this week, Scott Pilgrim Takes Off hits Netflix, while Max gets in on the act this week by premiering the second season of Julia.
Netflix, Amazon Prime Video, Hulu, Max, Apple TV+, Disney+, Paramount+, and Peacock still have new shows coming for the rest of November, including a handful arriving next week. But if you've been thinking about cutting back on your streaming bill, then perhaps you should consider signing up for the ad-supported tiers. In the meantime, keep reading for our weekly roundup of the best new shows to stream.
When you're done here, check out the best new movies to stream this week, as well as the best shows on Netflix, best shows on Hulu, best shows on Amazon Prime Video, and best shows on Disney+.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
