Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix F1 Live Stream Stranger Things Season 5 Best New Movies Most Popular Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney+ UFC Live Stream Best Movies on Disney+ Home Entertainment Features Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Does Master and Commander: The Far Side of the World still hold up 20 years later? By Blair Marnell Close Twenty years ago today, on November 14, 2003, Master and Commander: The Far Side of the World sailed into theaters as an outlier in the sea of Hollywood franchises, sequels, and over-the-top action flicks. In retrospect, it’s no wonder moviegoers didn’t quite know what to make of a nautical adventure that was set two centuries earlier during the Napoleonic Wars. Or perhaps audiences had their fill of the high seas after Pirates of the Caribbean: The Curse of the Black Pearl arrived in theaters only a few months before.
The Curse of the Black Pearl was a hit with $305 million domestic, while Master and Commander had a relatively modest run of $118 million against a $150 million budget. When the rest of the world was factored in, Master and Commander finished with $212 million and it received no sequels.
It features one of Russell Crowe’s best performances It celebrates friendship Life on the high seas Master and Commander has an epic soundtrack Did someone say … battleships? Pirates of the Caribbean may have gotten the billion-dollar franchise, but Master and Commander is now regarded as a modern classic whose popularity has only grown via repeated airings on cable and through the streaming era where it continually pops up on the major providers. This has not gone unnoticed, as GQ ran a feature story on Master and Commander ‘s enduring appeal earlier this year. The fans who have embraced this movie truly love it, and if you’ve never had the pleasure of seeing Master and Commander , then we’re going to tell you why it should be on deck for your next movie night.
It features one of Russell Crowe’s best performances 20th Century Studios Considering that Russell Crowe was coming off a run that includes his Oscar-winning turn in Gladiator , and his star-making role in L.A. Confidential , it’s truly impressive that his performance as Captain Jack Aubrey stands tall alongside his previous parts. Aubrey is far from perfect, but he’s a heroic figure who strives to keep the crew of his ship, the HMS Surprise, safe and united against a common threat. Aubrey truly cares about the men under his command, as seen when he abandons the pursuit of an enemy ship so that the Surprise can bring Stephen Maturin (as played by a pre-MCU Paul Bettany) to shore so he can perform life-saving surgery on himself and treat his gunshot wound.
20 years ago, Quentin Tarantino geeked out with Kill Bill Aubrey is the creation of Master and Commander novelist Patrick O’Brian, who chronicled the captain’s nautical career across several books. While some aspects of Aubrey’s personality are larger than life, Crowe’s portrayal is refreshingly human and down to Earth.
It celebrates friendship 20th Century Studios One of the reasons why fans have come to appreciate Master and Commander is the strong bond of friendship between Aubrey and Maturin. Their relationship was also an important part of O’Brian’s novels. In the film, Maturin doesn’t often get what he wants from Aubrey in terms of time to pursue his scientific studies. But he has the captain’s ear and his respect. They even spend time playing music together in the captain’s quarters, although the rest of the crew doesn’t share their taste in music.
Fittingly, the movie ends with the Surprise about to pursue their foe once again while Aubrey and Maturin have another jam session. It was, pardon the pun, the perfect note for the movie to go out on.
Life on the high seas 20th Century Studios Make no mistake about it, Master and Commander is a beautifully shot film by director and co-writer Peter Weir. The creative team behind this movie strove for historical accuracy whenever possible, which is also why it seems so timeless.
Cinematographer Russell Boyd and sound editor Richard King both deservedly won Oscars for their work on this movie. Their efforts, and those of the rest of the team behind the film, converged in breathtaking fashion. Few movies hold up as well as this one has over the last two decades.
Master and Commander has an epic soundtrack Master and Commander needed three composers — Iva Davies, Christopher Gordon, and Richard Tognetti — to collaborate on the score. Their combined work gives the soundtrack an old-school cinematic vibe, and they also set the tone for the movie by incorporating classical music into the mix.
The result is a spellbinding score that would have been a terrific album even if it wasn’t associated with the film. It’s everything you could ever hope to hear on a soundtrack and more.
Did someone say … battleships? 20th Century Studios There aren’t a lot of action sequences in Master and Commander , as the story largely focuses on the crew of the Surprise. But Weir brings his A-game every time that the crew encounters their nemesis, the French privateer, Acheron. Those are the scenes when the movie reaches another level of excitement.
Keep in mind that this film was made before CGI special effects dominated the field. For the most part, Weir used practical special effects and old-school filmmaking tricks to depict the battle between the two ships and the intense conflict between the two crews. Very few movies are afforded the same luxury in the current era of film. That’s another reason why Master and Commander has earned its place among the greatest films of the 21st century.
Watch Master and Commander: The Far Side of the World on Prime Video.
Editors' Recommendations Gladiator is on Netflix in October. Does it still hold up? 20 years later, The Rundown is still The Rock’s best action-hero role Features Entertainment This week is a particularly memorable one for Netflix's original series with two big premieres. The Crown – the British drama that has been one of the most popular shows on Netflix since its premiere in 2016 – is heading towards the finish line with the premiere of its sixth and final season. Additionally, the cult classic film and comic, Scott Pilgrim vs. the World, is getting a new anime series, Scott Pilgrim Takes Off.
With the Thanksgiving holiday coming next week, there's never been a better time to catch up on what's new on Netflix. You may even need the breather because it's been a busy year for Netflix. Don't worry, our weekly update of the best shows on Netflix will always be updated on Fridays to help you plan your weekend binge.
Entertainment Warning: This article contains spoilers for Thanksgiving (2023).
Director Eli Roth’s new horror-comedy, Thanksgiving, ends as all slasher movies should: With a few last-minute twists. Its third act follows the film's protagonist, Jessica (Nell Verlaque), as she escapes a horrifying dinner party massacre orchestrated by Thanksgiving's masked killer and makes it to a nearby warehouse. Once there, she discovers her town’s sheriff, Eric Newlon (Patrick Dempsey), lying unconscious near his patrol car and, shortly thereafter, watches through one of the nearby warehouse’s windows as her ex-boyfriend, Bobby (Jalen Thomas Brooks), takes off the same mask worn by her murderous pursuer.
Entertainment he Hunger Games has remained a surprisingly powerful force in modern pop culture despite the fact that until just recently, there hadn't been a new movie in the franchise in almost a decade. Thanks to a few great slogans ("I volunteer as tribute," "May the odds be ever in your favor," etc.) and a compelling premise, the series still lives on in the imaginations of many people who loved the books and movies when they were initially a phenomenon.
With a new entry, The Hunger Games: The Ballad of Songbirds & Snakes, now in theaters, the franchise is now back in the zeitgeist. In addition, a recent surge in viewing on streaming platforms like Netflix and now Peacock makes this an ideal time to look back at The Hunger Games and remember the indelible characters that made this franchise so fascinating and moving.
10. Beetee Latier Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
