Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix F1 Live Stream Stranger Things Season 5 Best New Movies Most Popular Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney+ UFC Live Stream Best Movies on Disney+ Home Entertainment Reviews The Creator review: an ambitious, disjointed sci-fi epic By Alex Welch Close Greig Fraser and Oren Soffer's visually stunning cinematography Gareth Edwards' confident, maximalist direction A propulsive, engrossing third-act base attack An overstuffed plot Numerous disjointed scenes throughout A cast of one-note characters Too many ideas left unexplored and forgotten The Creator , which hits theaters this week, is coming at both the worst and best possible time. The film, director Gareth Edwards’ first since 2016’s Rogue One: A Star Wars Story , was made on a limited $80 million budget using a location-first, effects-later shooting style that made it easy for its filmmaker and his crew to produce it for a comparatively smaller cost than almost every other modern blockbuster like it. You wouldn’t know just by watching it that it cost less to make The Creator than Ant-Man and the Wasp: Quantumania , Guardians of the Galaxy Vol. 3 , and Indiana Jones and the Dial of Destiny , either, all of which reportedly cost north of $200 million to make.
The Creator not only looks better than all of those films, but it emerges over the course of its overstuffed 133-minute runtime as Edwards’ most visually accomplished effort to date. Anyone familiar with his previous films — Rogue One , 2014’s Godzilla , and 2010’s Monsters — will know how high of a compliment that is. From a purely technical standpoint, the film is impressive enough to potentially change the way that most Hollywood studios make their blockbuster titles and open the door for more filmmakers to get to play around in the $50-$80 million range. For these reasons alone, The Creator feels like a necessary counterargument to the beliefs and methods that have driven blockbuster budgets to obscene heights over the past decade.
3 sci-fi movies on Tubi you need to watch in October The Creator’s ending, explained 10 most influential sci-fi movies ever On the other hand, the film’s bullish, simplistic sentiments regarding the emergence of artificial intelligence make it come across as no sci-fi film should: mind-bogglingly shortsighted. There is, perhaps, no moment in it that is more representative of its narrative and philosophical shortcomings than when a billboard of a well-known actress is presented in its second act that reads, “Donate your likeness. Support the AI cause!” On paper, that might seem like a biting piece of social commentary — until you realize that The Creator very much supports its own, self-proclaimed AI cause.
Glen Milner / 20th Century Studios The Creator begins with, of all things, a vintage newsreel. Across its opening minutes, the film chillingly lays out the timeline of its alternate reality — namely, how artificial simulants were first welcomed into American society before one supposedly robot-run nuclear attack on Los Angeles brought that peaceful period to an end. By the time its newsreel concludes, the film has effectively set the stage for the ongoing war between the pro-AI citizens of New Asia and the U.S. military, which lords its nuclear power over the world via a bomb-dropping space station known as NOMAD. It’s only a few minutes later that NOMAD’s capabilities are demonstrated in a sequence that irrevocably tears The Creator ’s hero, an undercover U.S. operative named Joshua (John David Washington), away from his pro-AI wife, Maya (Gemma Chan).
Years later, Joshua is ambushed by a pair of high-level military officials, Colonel Howell (Allison Janney) and General Andrews (Ralph Ineson), who inform him that an AI inventor known only as “Nimata” has created a new weapon powerful enough to permanently end the war between the U.S. and New Asia. His superiors convince Joshua to track down Nimata and the mysterious weapon with the promise that doing so will reunite him with Maya, who was recently spotted in satellite footage wandering around New Asia. His mission is complicated, however, when he comes face-to-face with Nimata’s latest weapon, an AI child named Alphie (Madeleine Yuna Voyles), who has the power to disable nearby technological devices and weapons.
As Joshua continues his search for Maya, he slowly bonds with Alphie. At the same time, The Creator bounces from one set piece to another — delivering action sequences set in the jungles and rice fields of New Asia that feel inevitably reminiscent of images produced during the Vietnam War. Its opening newsreel footage, as well as its wholehearted condemnation of America’s reactionary military practices, similarly make The Creator ’s allusions to the post-9/11 Iraq War unavoidably clear. Unfortunately, the film doesn’t know what to do with any of these connections, outside of emblazoning all of its tanks and bombs with blatant U.S. military labels and repeatedly hitting viewers with images of its Asian actors being brutally killed.
20th Century Studios The film, which was photographed by Oren Soffer and Dune cinematographer Greig Fraser, is a visually rich, relentlessly entrancing sci-fi epic. Beyond the beauty of its colorful frames and guerrilla-style, on-the-ground compositions, though, there’s little to grasp onto.
The Creator is a cynical takedown of the military-industrial complex that paints nearly all of its American characters as tyrannical, brutish war criminals while offering its Asian characters very little interiority or space to exist free of its carnage. Edwards’ decision to shoot the film primarily on location in Thailand gives it a beauty that is impossible to deny but it also makes the film’s numerous instances of violence against the Asian bodies featured throughout it feel thoughtless and indiscriminate.
Ultimately, The Creator doesn’t engage with the actual culture and people of its setting deeply enough to make its visual fascination with Southeast Asia feel anything more than voyeuristic. Its relentlessly fast-paced editing style, meanwhile, leaves many of its conversations and non-action sequences feeling strangely disjointed and incoherent. The film has no perceptible rhythm, and by the time it has reached its third act, which forces its characters to run back and forth across amazing distances, it’s difficult to ignore the growing feeling of puzzle pieces being forced into place. The result is a film that feels simultaneously overstuffed and trimmed within an inch of its life.
20th Century Studios The Creator is a sci-fi thriller awash in contradictions. It is, at once, a film made by a director whose last movie was effectively taken away from him and who has returned with a creative strategy to ensure that no studio ever feels the need to rip his vision apart again. And yet, it’s also a film that hails the merits of total assimilation. Even worse, it’s a movie filled with contempt for the systems that tend to crush anyone who stands in their way, but which seems unaware of its own nihilistic streak.
It’s a flawed creation, one incapable of clearly communicating its own ideas, but that doesn’t mean it should be altogether ignored. Even if the film itself is lackluster, the path it has laid for future blockbusters is one that demands to be pursued. The filmmakers who do may very well return with genre exercises that have more to offer than The Creator.
 In that sense, the most tragic thing about the movie may not be its own shortcomings, but the fact that it’s already destined to be outdone by those who follow in its footsteps.
The Creator is now playing in theaters. If you want to know more about the film, please read The Creator ‘s ending, explained.
Editors' Recommendations 5 best sci-fi movies from the past 5 years you should watch right now Like The Creator? Then watch these 5 great sci-fi movies From Westworld to The Creator: 6 sci-fi movies where the ‘evil’ AI was right 10 best classic sci-fi movies 5 sci-fi movies on Netflix that need to be seen right now Product Reviews Entertainment The science-fiction genre has a vast smorgasbord of cheesy films stretching way back to the early days of cinema. Such pictures are known for their weird stories, unrealistic dialogue, low-budget productions, and exaggerated acting.
While many of these films have been panned by critics and audiences alike, some of them have garnered success for being "so bad, they're good." Whether or not they have been held up by a dedicated fan base, these seven movies stand out as the cream of the cheesy sci-fi crop.
Flash Gordon (1980) Entertainment The 1980s was a pretty stellar time for cinema, and this is especially true for science-fiction films. Some of the most iconic movie franchises of all time were born from the sci-fi hits released in that decade.
From wild, action-packed adventures to frightening cosmic horror to profound philosophical studies, the genre of Asimov, Clarke, and Heinlein made fantastic cinematic strides that ignited audiences' imaginations. Since TV and film continue to invoke people's nostalgia for this bygone era, it's only fair to take a look at the sci-fi films that made the '80s a special time for countless people.
10. RoboCop (1987) Entertainment For some reason, movies just feel different in the summer. Maybe it's because summer makes us ready for fun and adventure, or maybe it's because this is the season when Hollywood releases its biggest and best blockbusters of the year. Summer is also a great time for sci-fi movies too since many tend to be released as summertime blockbusters, creating an unexplainable connection between the genre and season.
2023 is an especially great year to stream some great sci-movie as well since we've had a surprising lack of sci-fi adventures this summer, aside from Guardians of the Galaxy Vol. 3 and They Cloned Tyrone (which is more of a dark mystery than sci-fi anyways). Luckily, streamers like Max (formerly HBO Max) have a large library of fantastic new and classic sci-fi movies perfect for watching on a summer night. So grab some popcorn, turn on the surround sound, dim the lights (and maybe grab a friend or two), and check out these 5 epic sci-fi movies streaming on Max that are perfect for summer.
Armageddon (1998) Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
