Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix F1 Live Stream Stranger Things Season 5 Best New Movies Most Popular Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney+ UFC Live Stream Best Movies on Disney+ Home Entertainment Reviews The Equalizer 3 review: a meditative, ultraviolent sequel By Alex Welch Close Denzel Washington's reliably commanding lead performance A striking visual texture and aesthetic A surprisingly patient, meditative pace A by-the-numbers vigilante plot An ensemble of one-note supporting characters The Equalizer 3 opens in the wake of a massacre. Its prologue follows the owner of an Italian vineyard as he discovers, much to his horror, that the violence that has recently struck his property is far from over. However, while the new, Antoine Fuqua-directed thriller finds a way to pack in another Denzel Washington-manned, stopwatch-timed bout of carnage in its first few minutes, it’s the film’s eerie, quiet opening that proves to be truly emblematic of what is to follow. As shockingly brutal as its many set pieces are, the film is more interested in lingering in the aftermath of its protagonist’s violence than it is in the blood-soaked action itself.
That’s the most surprising and rewarding thing about The Equalizer 3.
 Of the now-three films that Washington and Fuqua have made together about Robert McCall, the former’s fictional, quasi-retired U.S. intelligence agent, it is easily the most contemplative and thoughtful. That doesn’t mean The Equalizer 3 is all that surprising of a movie, nor does it mean that it’s a particularly noteworthy effort from either Fuqua or Washington. At its core, the film is still a B-level action movie that is committed to sticking to its franchise’s formula.
3 great action movies on Tubi you need to watch in October 3 action movies on Tubi you need to watch in September Is The Equalizer 3 streaming? Anyone who wasn’t charmed by the first two Equalizer films likely won’t, in other words, be won over by Fuqua’s latest sequel. Those who have enjoyed the franchise up to this point, however, may very well find themselves not only invested in The Equalizer 3 ’s plot, but also surprised by its meditative pace and, at times, affected by its exploration of its hero’s fractured, lonely mind. As shallow as its depths may be, the film also isn’t as superficial as it initially appears.
Stefano Montesi / Sony Pictures Set five years after the franchise’s second installment, The Equalizer 3 picks back up with Washington’s Robert McCall in the moments immediately after he’s single-handedly killed nearly every guard present at the Sicilian home of an internationally wanted criminal. The reason for McCall’s presence at said Italian villa isn’t immediately clear, but it also doesn’t need to be. What matters more is the coldness with which the character dispatches his enemies, as well as the wound he suffers at the hands of a surprising culprit, which sends him into the care of Enzo (Remo Girone), the local doctor in a nearby, mountainside village.
Injured and forced to exist at a slower pace than he’s used to, Robert finds himself increasingly charmed by the residents of Enzo’s tiny Italian town. Despite how haunted he feels by his past actions, Washington’s former marine begins to embrace the idea of settling down and starting over in the tight-knit community he’s accidentally fallen into. That dream is challenged, however, by the Italian mobsters who have made a habit out of threatening and scamming the very people Robert now sees as his friends.
Headed by brothers Vincent (Andrea Scarduzio) and Marco (Andrea Dodero), The Equalizer 3 ’s blunt-force crime outfit gives the film’s protagonist the chance to use his dangerous skills to rid his neighbors of their biggest harassers. The film, consequently, reframes Robert’s inevitable, murderous acts as well-intentioned efforts to help the good people around him in much the same way that the previous Equalizer films have. While it inevitably indulges in its hero’s violent impulses, though, the movie also spends more time contemplating the impact of Robert’s actions than either of its predecessors.
Stefano Montesi / Sony Pictures The Equalizer 3 ’s more patient approach makes the fight sequences of its second half land with considerable force. That’s particularly true of one late-night confrontation between Washington’s Robert and Dodero’s Marco, which initially makes spectacular use of the former’s clear-eyed, magnetic stillness before allowing him to unleash the full might of his still-unrivaled on-screen physicality. The sequence in question leads to several unsurprising, gratuitously bloody moments, but this time around, Fuqua and Washington make the deaths Robert causes seem less like self-indulgent exercises in brutality and more like the natural outcome of his mere presence.
In The Equalizer 3 , Fuqua reframes the character as not just a sharpened vessel for violence, but as an angel of death. During his daily walks through the film’s central Italian village, Fuqua frequently positions Washington within view of various religious symbols and crosses. These compositional decisions not only play into the sequel’s heightened sense of spirituality, but also emphasize the increasingly mythic quality of its protagonist. In its third act, Fuqua takes the film’s visual metaphors too far by relying too much on cutaways to certain stained glass religious images, but these missteps don’t take away from the cumulative power that The Equalizer 3 grants Washington’s McCall.
Thematically, the film has more in common with several of its star’s previous, non- Equalizer action movies, including 2004’s Man on Fire.
 The film even, notably, reunites the stars of its underrated, Tony Scott-directed predecessor by pairing up Washington in several scenes with Dakota Fanning. The actress has a small, but noteworthy role in The Equalizer 3 as Emma Collins, an up-and-coming CIA agent whom Robert unofficially takes under his wing. For the most part, Emma’s inclusion feels unnecessary to the film’s overall plot, but there’s enough electricity present in her and Washington’s scenes together to forgive the superfluous nature of Fanning’s character.
Narratively, The Equalizer 3 doesn’t reach the same depths as Man on Fire , nor does it ever achieve the same level of visual splendor. Fuqua and cinematographer Robert Richardson do, however, bring a strikingly desaturated, black-and-white-esque aesthetic to the film that helps elevate its themes of morality, violence, and history. Washington’s all-black costumes often stand in stark contrast to the chipped and peeling white walls of the movie’s centuries-old Italian village, which gives it a richer visual texture than either of the first two Equalizer films.
What do all of these touches amount to? A movie that is, in many ways, a satisfying extension of its series’ previous installments.
The Equalizer 3 is, by no means, a spectacular or particularly dense action film. It may be coming out nearly 10 years after the first Equalizer , but its pleasures remain just as obvious and reliable as those offered by that 2014 blockbuster. Ultimately, the best thing that can be said about The Equalizer 3 is that it is both content to deliver the same things as its predecessors and also interested in reaching farther than either. The result is a thriller that is just as straightforward as its subject matter demands, but also more interesting than it ever needed to be — if only slightly.
The Equalizer 3 opens in theaters on Friday, September 1.
Editors' Recommendations 3 action movies on Netflix you need to watch in November 3 action movies on Netflix you need to watch in October 3 action movies on Netflix you need to watch in September The Equalizer 3’s ending, explained 5 action movies that deserve a sequel Product Reviews Entertainment After the success of 2018's The Meg, the sequel, Meg 2: The Trench, had to go bigger and add multiple megalodons to the fray. Jason Statham's Jonas Taylor is back on the scene, leading an expedition inside the Trench, one of the deepest parts of the ocean. Jonas and his team discover a mining colony home to valuable stones and minerals that could be worth billions. However, the mission goes awry, leading Jonas and the survivors to fight against these massive, prehistoric sharks.
Looking for more action movies like Meg 2: The Trench? There are numerous films available on Netflix that involve sci-fi, apex predators (including killer sharks!), and a whole lot of violence. Check out these three suggestions below.
47 Meters Down: Uncaged (2019) Entertainment At a time when anti-Semitic extremists are storming the U.S Capitol, running for office, and declaring war on Jewish people via social media, it might not be the best time for a movie that expects you to sympathize with Nazis. And yet, that hasn't stopped Operation Seawolf from sailing into theaters and on-demand streaming services this month.
The film, which follows the crew of a German U-boat during the waning days of World War II, casts Dolph Lundgren (Rocky IV) as German war hero Capt. Hans Kessler, who's ordered to lead the Nazis' remaining U-boats on a desperate (and likely fatal) mission to attack the U.S. on its own soil. As he and his crew make their way toward New York City in one final bid to turn the tide of war, Kessler finds himself struggling with both the internal politics of the ship and his own sense of duty as the Third Reich crumbles around him.
Entertainment The Woman King opens purposefully and violently. The film’s first sequence, which brings to life a brutal battle from its sudden beginning all the way to its somber end, is a master class in visual storytelling. Not only does it allow director Gina Prince-Bythewood to, once again, prove her worth as a capable action filmmaker, but it also introduces The Woman King’s central all-female army, sets up the film’s core conflict, and introduces nearly every important character that you’ll need to know for the two hours that follow it. The fact that The Woman King does all of this within the span of a few short minutes just makes its opening sequence all the more impressive.
The level of impressive craftsmanship in The Woman King’s memorably violent prologue is present throughout the entirety of its 135-minute runtime. For that reason, the film often feels like a throwback to an era that seems to reside farther in the past than it actually does, one when it was common for all the major Hollywood studios to regularly put out historical epics that were, if nothing else, reliably well-made and dramatically engaging.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
