Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Netflix Original Movies Best Comedies on Netflix Best Netflix Original Series Best Anime on Netflix Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Fantasy Movies on Netflix Home Entertainment Reviews The Fall of the House of Usher review: a gothic horror hit By Alex Welch Close Bruce Greenwood and Carla Gugino's tour de force lead performances Mike Flanagan and Michael Fimognari's composed, confident direction Numerous genuinely horrifying deaths and jump scares A few overly sentimental moments An episodic structure that gets repetitive in the show's second half When it was originally announced that writer-director Mike Flanagan’s fifth Netflix series would be based on the works of Edgar Allan Poe, few could have predicted that the resulting show would be a gruesome, gothic take on the modern-day horrors of the Sackler Family and the opioid epidemic. Nonetheless, that’s exactly what The Fall of the House of Usher is. Lest anyone think otherwise, the eight-episode limited series, which was partly written and directed by Flanagan himself, is just as mean-spirited, acidic, and ruthless as its ideas demand. It is, in fact, the most wholeheartedly cynical piece of horror fiction that Flanagan has had a hand in making.
In honor of its Poe-penned pieces of source material, The Fall of the House of Usher sees Flanagan ditch the straightforward horror tones of Midnight Mass and The Midnight Club in favor of something far madder and more, well, macabre.
 What that shift produces is a TV series that is visually and narratively blunter than any of the filmmaker’s past Netflix efforts, but no less engaging. As he’s already done with the works of Henry James, Christopher Pike, and Shirley Jackson, Flanagan has created a TV series that not only marries his and his selected inspiration’s styles, but also allows them to shine simultaneously.
Eike Schroter / Netflix Based loosely on a number of Edgar Allan Poe’s short stories and poems, The Fall of the House of Usher focuses on the fictional Usher family. Led by brother-sister duo Roderick (Bruce Greenwood) and Madeline (Mary McDonnell), the Ushers are the powerful dynasty behind a corrupt pharmaceutical company that is believed to be responsible for the deaths and drug addictions of millions of Americans. However, after spending decades enjoying the invulnerability provided to them by their wealth, weaknesses begin to form in the Ushers’ armor when Roderick’s children start dying under increasingly mysterious circumstances.
Like Fall of the House of Usher? Then watch these 5 TV shows that are just like it 3 Edgar Allan Poe horror movies to watch after Netflix’s Fall of the House of Usher 5 horror movies on Netflix that are perfect to watch in the summer As Roderick begins to question whether some of his past decisions are to blame for his family’s sudden twists of fate, he and his loved ones find themselves tormented by Verna (Carla Gugino), a mysterious stranger who has a habit of showing up just before one of them dies. Before long, the Ushers’ numbers have dwindled and Roderick has been driven to confess his numerous crimes to his longtime rival, C. Auguste Dupin (Carl Lumbly), a well-intentioned district attorney. If that seems like a spoiler, it’s not. Roderick’s midnight conversation with Dupin actually begins within the first few minutes of The Fall of the House of Usher , and it serves as the springboard that leads to the rest of the show’s story, most of which plays out in the past.
As far as narrative devices go, using Roderick’s confession as the foundation for the series’ ongoing voice-over narration and flashbacks is undeniably contrived, but it also has a basis in its namesake Poe story. What’s less defensible is the repetitive nature of The Fall of the House of Usher ‘s episodes, nearly all of which follow the same set of plot beats. Each focuses on one of Roderick’s children and uses a Poe short story as the inspiration for their eventual demise. Several of their deaths produce sequences that are among the bloodiest and grisliest that Flanagan has ever made. By the time the fifth and sixth of Roderick’s heirs have found themselves facing their own fates, though, the impact of their deaths has been lessened slightly by The Fall of the House of Usher ’s unerring commitment to its own episodic formula.
Eike Schroter / Netflix While its narrative and structural flaws drag down the show’s later episodes, the potency of its gothic mood and the vibrancy of its Giallo-esque aesthetic are never diminished. Stylistically, The Fall of the House of Usher never attempts anything as directorially bold as the one-take episode of The Haunting of Hill House , but Flanagan and fellow director Michael Fimognari do deliver a series that is not only visually cohesive, but continuously bold in its violence and unearthly imagery. The show is, with the exception of The Haunting of Bly Manor , the most aesthetically experimental and striking of Flanagan’s Netflix titles.
Behind the scenes, Flanagan continues his now-famous commitment to his ever-growing stable of actors by using The Fall of the House of Usher as an excuse to reunite with an impressive number of his past collaborators. Not all of them fit in as well as others.
Midnight Club stars like Ruth Codd, Igby Rigney, and Aya Furukawa feel out of place in a show that is largely concerned with ideas and themes more well-suited to its older characters, though Doctor Sleep star Kyliegh Curran turns in impressively vulnerable, quietly principled work as Lenore, Roderick’s granddaughter. Elsewhere, recurring Flanagan players like Henry Thomas, Kate Siegel, T’Nia Miller, Rahul Kohli, and Samantha Sloyan give reliably strong and, in some cases, deliciously over-the-top performances as Roderick’s adult children.
Ultimately, though, The Fall of the House is Usher is anchored by the tour de force performances given by Greenwood and Gugino. The former, who was brought on as a last-minute replacement, makes the role of Roderick totally his — chewing up and spitting out every single line Flanagan gives him until it becomes impossible to imagine anyone else saying them. Never before has Greenwood been allowed to bring as much gravitas and Machiavellian energy to a role, and it’s been many years since the actor has felt quite as revelatory. The same holds true for Gugino, who turns in a career-best performance as Verna, a sultry, mischievous supernatural entity that seems to regard the Usher family with equal amounts of both contempt and wonder.
Eike Schroter / Netflix The series is different from Flanagan’s previous Netflix shows in numerous ways, but none more noteworthy than how coolly it presents its characters. Although Flanagan proves himself incapable of fully shaking his own sentimental streak in the Fall of the House of Usher finale, the director regards his latest batch of characters with a level of disdain that is decidedly rare for him. That aspect of the series allows Flanagan to turn it into not only his most scathingly political project to date, but also his meanest and most cutthroat. The show isn’t quite as scary as The Haunting of Hill House , but it is gorier, bloodier, and generally more perverse than the director’s fans may expect.
That doesn’t make The Fall of the House of Usher a disappointing or odd conclusion to Flanagan’s long-running collaboration with Netflix, either. As a matter of fact, quite the opposite is true. By parting ways with the streaming service when he has, Flanagan has ensured that his six-year horror rave hasn’t ended with a timid nod or silent goodbye, but one final flick of the knife and a sudden, rapturous downpour of blood.
The Fall of the House of Usher is streaming now on Netflix.
Editors' Recommendations 3 best shows like American Horror Story you should watch The Fall of the House of Usher’s ending, explained Painkiller meets horror in The Fall of the House of Usher trailer The Midnight Club review: an earnest YA horror adventure Lost Ollie review: An endearing fantasy adventure Netflix Product Reviews Streaming Services Entertainment Anatomy of a Scandal is not afraid to take big risks. Like so many other David E. Kelly-produced and -written productions, the new Netflix series is largely a courtroom drama. However, despite its relatively grounded tone and serious subject matter, Anatomy of a Scandal doesn't shy away from attempting the kind of elaborate visual moments that turn its characters’ world upside down or, in one instance, show them falling in slow-motion into empty courtrooms.
The problem is that many of the visual and narrative risks the series takes are misguided at best and irritating at worst. Anatomy of a Scandal wants its viewers to not just feel but see everything its characters are mentally and emotionally experiencing on a moment-to-moment basis. Rather than relying on the strength of its material and actors, many of whom turn in strong work here, the series tries to come up with a million ways to hit its points home as hard as it possibly can.
Entertainment November has been a great month for movies at Netflix, with the premiere of David Fincher's The Killer, and recent box office hits like Insidious: The Red Door and Spider-Man: Across the Spider-Verse. This week, the new additions include The Impossible, a 2012 survival thriller that has already landed on the list of the 10 most popular movies on Netflix. For younger viewers, Minions is also heating up the charts despite the pending departure of the other films in the franchise at the end of the month.
There's only one holiday weekend left in November, so what's the best way to stay on top of everything new on Netflix? Why, we are, of course. Our list of the best movies on Netflix right now is updated every Friday, even on holiday weekends, so you can easily find something for every movie lover in your life.
Entertainment Summer is long over, and the fall season is in full swing. It's now late 2023, and just about everyone is subscribed to Netflix and Hulu. But would you be surprised if I told you one of the most underrated streaming services around is Tubi? The upstart streamer has tons of new and old TV shows from every decade and every genre imaginable. Want to watch the buzziest series that aired on Max? Tubi has it. Are you feeling nostalgic about that old movie or cartoon you used to watch as a kid in the '80s or '90s? Chances are, Tubi has it.
Tubi has so much content that it can be hard to choose which shows and films are worth your time. Digital Trends is here to help you sort out which ones are worth watching. Even though the streaming service is free, time is valuable, and no one wants to waste it watching subpar content.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
