Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Netflix Original Movies Best Comedies on Netflix Best Netflix Original Series Best Anime on Netflix Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Fantasy Movies on Netflix Home Entertainment Reviews The Killer review: David Fincher stylishly roasts himself By A.A. Dowd Close It's typically stylish It's atypically funny It's as personal as David Fincher gets The ending is anticlimactic It's a big-screen movie destined to be streamed When Jimmy Stewart raised a camera to his eye and aimed it at the apartment building across the way in Rear Window , he looked less like himself and more like his director — Hollywood’s ultimate leering, obsessive voyeur, Alfred Hitchcock. Something similar happens in The Killer , David Fincher ‘s expectedly slick, unexpectedly funny new thriller. It’s a scope that Michael Fassbender peers through in this movie, and a shot of a different sort that he lines up through the rear window of his Parisian crow’s nest. All the same, the impression of a self-portrait painted over a movie star is hard to miss. Fincher’s silhouette may be less iconic than Hitchcock’s, but if you’ve followed the career of the man who made Zodiac , Seven , and The Girl With the Dragon Tattoo , you’ll recognize all the lines it sketches around his latest dealer of death.
The character is an assassin, a man with no name, a man of few words. We meet him on assignment, staking out the secure apartment of his wealthy target from a rented office space — it’s a little vignette of wait-and-hurry-up that functions as the film’s introductory chapter and allows us to gaze into the methods of a WeWork wetworker. The Killer is a consummate professional: precise in his craft, comfortable with boredom. “My process is purely logistical, narrowly focused by design,” he narrates. He has a job and he strives to do it well. He is a perfectionist — the best word for a hitman slowing his heart rate for the sake of marksmanship, but also for a filmmaker prone to requesting upwards of 50 takes to get the exact mannerism he’s seeking from an actor.
Michael Fassbender in The Killer Netflix / Netflix Fassbender’s Killer belongs to a proud movie lineage, a tradition of existentially freighted and laconic men of action. He doesn’t talk much. Not audibly anyway. Inside his head, he’s a total chatterbox.
The Killer reunites Fincher with Andrew Kevin Walker, who wrote Seven and punched up Fight Club and The Game.
 Here, he’s supplied a veritable novella of voice-over that might make Tyler Durden plead for a little quiet. It takes a moment to realize this coolly cynical inner monologue (“It’s a dog-eat-dog world”) might be intentionally rather than accidentally self-parodic. After a career of following mindhunters, Fincher has finally gotten into the mind of a killer and finds it resembles a dorm room plastered with posters of his movies.
All of David Fincher’s movies, ranked from worst to best Catching Killers is the most popular show on Netflix right now. Here’s why you should watch it New Jeffrey Dahmer interviews the basis for Conversations with a Killer series He remains a wonk for process, even or perhaps especially when that process is tedious. In a David Fincher movie, people are always going and doing.
The Killer is indiscriminate in its fascination with activity. It applies no more studious attention to Fassbender fleeing a crime scene — his motorcycle darting around tight corners, expertly escaping the perimeter set up by the authorities — than it does to him rifling through laminated documents or a Rolodex, trading out license plates, or placing a glass on a hotel doorknob to clue him to an ambush. This Killer is a gig-economy gunman, and it’s oddly amusing to see the kind of surface appreciation the James Bond movies reserve for the finer things lavished on commercial spaces: car rental desks, economy cabins, fast food restaurants that supply our antihero with a quick morning calorie fuel-up before his next kill.
Netflix Fassbender offers an ideal vessel for pared-down thrills. Like Steve McQueen or Alain Delon or Ryan Gosling , he looks sharp and cool, an iconic logo of a protagonist. His performance gives us nothing, but keeps us looking for something. The explicit emotion in the movie belongs only to the supporting characters unfortunate enough to slip into his crosshairs. There’s a great, queasy sequence involving someone in the wrong place at the wrong time who’s smart enough to know how little mercy they’re in a position to expect. The movie gravitates to this side perspective almost by default, as an alternative to a main character so methodical he literally slows his own pulse. Later, the movie stops for a last supper in a swanky restaurant and a feast of a star cameo as it plays out a futile one-sided conversation with a black void.
“Empathy is weakness, weakness is vulnerability,” The Killer tells himself. But is he really so free of feeling? Like the driver of Drive , the man seems to express himself in song selection — the Smiths tracks he pipes into his ears while doing his dirty job. The Pope of Mope is a funny choice for a guy proud of his supposed blankness. If it’s an emotional tell, Fincher undercuts any romantic stirrings of soul: The guy who tore down Manhattan to another revered ’80s rock group resists his music-video roots, never going for easy needle-drop catharsis. When The Killer cues up his soundtrack while steadying his aim, Fincher cuts in and out of his headphoned headspace, deliberately wrecking the rhythm.
Netflix The plot, adapted from a French graphic novel, is all sinew. A job goes wrong, consequences ensue, and several new, related jobs take its place. Fincher creeps the action across the globe step by step, from assignment to assignment, with the dispassionate flow of a balance transfer. How can something be so efficient and so neurotically detail-oriented? You might call it a perfect alignment of artist and material if Zodiac , Fincher’s masterpiece of file cabinet compulsion, didn’t achieve that already through its dense procedural legwork.
What makes The Killer more than an exercise in businesslike genre cool — though it is that, too, and quite hypnotically — is the powder-dry humor sprinkled over its immaculate surface. For all his devotion to protocol, for all his obsession with code, The Killer is far from infallible. The movie’s dark joke is on the way the plan always can and often will go awry: with a missed shot, with bad math, with a brutal full-contact fight that dashes his hopes of an in-and-out hit. Even his mantra — a kind of self-discipline pep talk — gets interrupted at one point, in what could be described as voice-over slapstick. Being obsessed with control doesn’t mean you’ll actually achieve it. There are too many variables.
The ending is anticlimatic, almost perversely. It begs for a capitalistic reading, not a dramatic one. You could see Steven Soderbergh making this movie, and pushing all the financial subtext closer to the front. Fincher is after something different, something more idiosyncratic: a neo-noir of relentlessly economical style that’s also, underneath, a comedy about the impossible pursuit of perfection without emotion. As The Killer’s quest begins to take on a distinctly vindictive bent, even as he swears up and down it’s all just business, you start to wonder if you’ve ever seen this filmmaker more clearly. Leave it to Fincher to find something personal in an ode to impersonality.
The Killer opens in select theaters on Friday, October 27, and begins streaming on Netflix on Friday, November 10.
Editors' Recommendations 5 movies like Netflix’s The Killer you should watch right now David Corenswet: 5 shows and movies to watch starring the next Superman Conversations with A Killer: The Jeffrey Dahmer Tapes review: killer’s words yield little insight Bullet Train review: Brad Pitt shines in a jokey, stylish action film Crimes of the Future review: David Cronenberg hails the old flesh Netflix Product Reviews Streaming Services Entertainment The HBO Max series Tokyo Vice is a project that has been in the works for nearly a decade, initially announced as a film featuring Harry Potter franchise star Daniel Radcliffe, then later repositioned as a television series with Heat director Michael Mann attached and Baby Driver actor Ansel Elgort in the lead role. It finally arrives on April 7 after several years of on-and-off production due to the pandemic and the complicated logistics of international filming.
While such long development and production periods can often be a sign of trouble, anyone who's been looking forward to the series can rest easy: The first five episodes suggest that the extra time involved in bringing it to the screen was well spent.
Entertainment Good Omens - Official Trailer | Prime Video In a case of "yell at the biggest guy in the room" confusion, viewers upset about Good Omens, Neil Gaiman's satirical send-up of Christianity (and religion in general), are petitioning Netflix to get the series canceled. The only issue? They're petitioning the wrong streaming service.
Entertainment November has been a great month for movies at Netflix, with the premiere of David Fincher's The Killer, and recent box office hits like Insidious: The Red Door and Spider-Man: Across the Spider-Verse. This week, the new additions include The Impossible, a 2012 survival thriller that has already landed on the list of the 10 most popular movies on Netflix. For younger viewers, Minions is also heating up the charts despite the pending departure of the other films in the franchise at the end of the month.
There's only one holiday weekend left in November, so what's the best way to stay on top of everything new on Netflix? Why, we are, of course. Our list of the best movies on Netflix right now is updated every Friday, even on holiday weekends, so you can easily find something for every movie lover in your life.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
