Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix F1 Live Stream Stranger Things Season 5 Best New Movies Most Popular Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney+ UFC Live Stream Best Movies on Disney+ Home Entertainment News The Marvels: How many post-credits scenes are there in the latest MCU movie? By Jason Struss Close Marvel Studios It’s November, which means it’s time for the usual seasonal things: holiday movies no one wants to see; too many football games to keep track of; and sales on stuff you probably don’t need. It’s also time for another Marvel movie, and the latest one, The Marvels , promises more of the same except with a lot less fan enthusiasm and critical acclaim.
How many post-credits scenes are there in The Marvels? The Marvels post-credits scene number 1 Yes, the MCU is in a bit of a slump lately, but that hasn’t stopped people curious about what’s going on all these multiverses and what latest Easter eggs are teasing future plotlines.
The Marvels is no different , as it contains the usual post-credits scene(s) that are designed to whip up enthusiasm for the movie itself and potential sequels down the road. But how many post-credits scenes are there in The Marvels ? And just what happens in those scenes and who cameos? Digital Trends has all the answers for you below.
How many post-credits scenes are there in The Marvels? There’s only one post-credits scene in The Marvels.
 Usually, there are two, but even Marvel has to be frugal in this tight economy.
The Marvels: Is it the worst MCU movie ever? Does Gran Turismo have a post-credits scene? Does Spider-Man: Across the Spider-Verse have a post-credits scene? The Marvels post-credits scene number 1 Marvel Studios At the end of The Marvels , Monica Rambeau had to stitch a hole in the space-time continuum that threatened to collapse the MCU’s reality with an unidentified other reality. The good news? Monica successfully prevents the two realities from merging and saves the day. The bad news? She’s stuck in the other reality. She disappears from the remainder of the movie and doesn’t pop up until the sole post-credits scene in The Marvels.
When we next see Monica, she’s lying in a bed, hooked up to monitors.
 She looks to her right, and someone is seated right next to her: it’s none other than her mother, Maria Rambeau ( The Woman King ‘s Lashana Lynch). Something is immediately off for two reasons: Maria is technically dead (she died offscreen in WandaVision and her multiverse variant was slaughtered by the Scarlet Witch in Doctor Strange in the Multiverse of Madness ) and she’s a lot younger than she was when she died. In fact, she’s almost the exact same age as Monica herself. What’s going on here? 20th Century Fox An off-screen voice suddenly speaks, telling Monica how fascinating she is as a subject of study since she’s from an alternate reality. The voice is awfully familiar, and as the camera pans up, we see who is speaking: it’s Dr. Hank McCoy, aka The Beast. That’s right, Monica Rambeau is in the Fox X-Men reality, which apparently exists now in the greater MCU.
This version of The Beast is the one first introduced in X-Men: The Last Stand and is once again played by Kelsey Grammer. “Played” might be a bit of a stretch as this Beast appears to be all CG not the heavily prosthetic-and-makeup iteration that was in The Last Stand.
 Still, it’s the same character and the first blatant confirmation that the X-Men now exist somewhere in the MCU. The rumors were indeed true: The Marvels introduced the X-Men.
 Finally! But wait, there’s another surprise. As Monica pleads with her mother to remember her, Maria stands up, and the camera pulls back to reveal her in a very familiar red-and-white costume. Fans will instantly recognize this costume as belonging to Binary, an X-Men supporting character from the early 1980s who was first embodied by … Carol Danvers.
Marvel Comics Yes, before she was Captain Marvel, she was Binary, a super-powered intergalactic heroine with the power of the sun at her fingertips. It appears Maria is now this universe’s Binary, and has no idea who Monica is or why the stranger keeps calling her mother.
The Marvels is now playing in theaters nationwide.
Editors' Recommendations What went wrong with The Marvels? 5 reasons why the MCU is in trouble The Marvels just might be the MCU’s first huge box office disaster Does The Flash movie have a post-credits scene? Does Fast X have a post-credits scene? Is there a post-credits scene in Guardians of the Galaxy Vol. 3? Comic Book Movies Marvel Tech News Entertainment Once upon a time, it was rare for a movie to have a post-credits scene, but those days are long past. Nowadays, it’s increasingly rare for a major blockbuster or franchise movie to not have a mid or post-credits scene attached to it. With that in mind, audiences will likely head into The Super Mario Bros. Movie this week wondering whether or not they’ll miss anything if they don’t stick around for the film’s admittedly lengthy end credits.
The new film is Hollywood’s latest attempt to capitalize off of the success of one of the most iconic video game properties in history. Coming 30 years after 1993’s famously lackluster Super Mario Bros., the new outing is an animated adventure that offers moviegoers the chance to journey through some of the most iconic fictional video game worlds with an equally recognizable cast of Nintendo characters.
Entertainment Moviegoers now expect to linger after the end credits roll for superhero movies, as they know there will be one or two (or in some cases, more) "stingers" that tease about the endless sequels and cinematic universes that dominate the pop culture landscape. Just last month, Marvel Studios stuck two end credits scenes at the end of Ant-Man and the Wasp: Quantumania, which teased the growing threat of Jonathan Majors' villain Kang and the second season of the Disney+ series Loki.
DC is no stranger to end credits scenes either, and with the release of its newest film, Shazam! Fury of the Gods, fans have to be wondering if that movie has a post-credits scene or two. Is the future of the DCEU teased? Do any other characters show up like Batman, Black Adam, or the Flash? To find out what happens, keep reading! Does Shazam! Fury of the Gods have any post-credits scenes? SHAZAM! FURY OF THE GODS – Official Trailer 1 Entertainment Thanks to modern superhero movies like Iron Man and Black Panther, it's now a ritual for audiences to linger after the end credits roll for pretty much any movie nowadays. If a classic movie like The Sixth Sense was made today, there would be an end credits scene with the ghost of Bruce Willis' character hanging around another poor psychic kid to tease a sequel, The Sixth Sense 2: Deader Than Ever.
Horror is a genre that's recently seen some post-credits scenes lately. The original Insidious and last year's Terrifier 2 both had end credits scenes, which can be important to build up a franchise and tease the sequel we all know is coming at some point. The Scream franchise isn't known to have end credits scenes, but in today's moviegoing climate when every movie seemingly has one, a viewer has to ask: does Scream 6 have a post-credits end scene? Well, does Scream 6 have a post-credits end scene or not? Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
