Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix F1 Live Stream Stranger Things Season 5 Best New Movies Most Popular Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney+ UFC Live Stream Best Movies on Disney+ Home Entertainment Reviews The Nun 2 review: a louder, occasionally scarier sequel By Alex Welch Close An arresting prologue A memorable, intense midpoint chapel sequence Taissa Farmiga's likable lead performance The film's best sequences have a tendency to end in a lackluster fashion An uneven, exposition-heavy screenplay Numerous flat supporting characters The Nun 2 begins, as it should, in the darkened halls and stairwells of a church. The year is 1956. The country is France. The religion is definitively Catholic. These details all come quickly, with the film spending its opening moments with a young altar boy who has unknowingly caught the attention of Valak (Bonnie Aarons), the demon that has been masquerading as a malevolent nun onscreen ever since 2017’s The Conjuring 2.
 Before long, Valak is actively terrorizing its latest target — resetting his stool when he’s not looking and rolling his soccer ball back at him from the other end of a long, seemingly endless corridor.
In these moments, director Michael Chaves expertly and patiently ratchets up the tension — stretching out the moments of silence between Valak’s attacks until you can barely stand it. By the time the scene-stealing demon has finally shown its unnaturally chalk-white face, The Nun 2 has already reached greater heights than its 2018 predecessor. However, in a misguided attempt to inspire shock and fear, Chaves goes bright and loud — punctuating the film’s otherwise impeccable prologue with a fiery exclamation mark that doesn’t leave one nearly as shaken as all the moments of quiet, pungent dread that precede it.
3 underrated horror sequels that deserve to be watched again 5 horror movies like The Nun 2 you should watch The Nun 2’s ending, explained The Nun 2 ’s opening establishes a cycle of diminishing returns that the film itself refuses to deviate from. There are flashes of near-silent, bone-chilling horror brilliance scattered throughout the latest installment of Warner Bros.’ ever-growing Conjuring Universe , but they’re almost always followed by images of blunt-force violence that do nothing but dull the impact of its sharpest moments.
Warner Bros. Pictures Unlike The Nun , which is set almost exclusively in early 1950s Romania, the new sequel spends most of its time in France. Picking up four years after the events of its parent film, The Nun 2 finds Sister Irene (Taissa Farmiga) living a quiet life at a countryside convent where she has become fast friends with Sister Debra (Storm Reid), whose rebellious streak and struggles with her own Catholic faith have made her a nuisance for the rest of their Holy Sisters. Irene’s peaceful existence is disrupted, however, when she’s ordered to investigate a trail of religious murders spanning a not-insignificant portion of Western Europe.
Irene’s mission leads her and Debra to a French boarding school where her former friend and savior, Maurice (Jonas Bloquet), has started a new job as a handyman. Unbeknownst to them, Maurice didn’t make it out of his and Irene’s previous encounter with Valak as free as they’d thought. Instead, he has become a vessel for the demon, who uses him to carry out a series of murders and frightful encounters as part of a search for a Christian relic that could make Valak even more powerful. Structurally, The Nun 2 spends most of its runtime planting the seeds for Sister Irene and Maurice’s eventual reunion — bouncing between sequences of pure horror involving the latter character and the moments of research carried out by Farmiga’s clear-eyed heroine, who also experiences a few ominous visions along the way.
The film’s script, penned by Ian Goldberg, Richard Naing, and M3GAN writer Akela Cooper, struggles to strike an even balance between its two halves. Its pacing sags throughout its second act, which has a habit of becoming so focused on explaining its eponymous villain’s actions and expanding the religious lore surrounding both Valak and Sister Irene that it fails to remain as consistently scary or atmospheric as one would like. While the purpose of Irene’s supernatural visions becomes increasingly clear over the course of the film’s runtime, too, only one of them packs much of a punch. The rest feel largely superfluous, especially given how long it takes for the character to piece together the clues that will lead her back to Maurice and, by extension, his demonic possessor.
Warner Bros. Pictures Michael Chaves, whose previous credits include The Curse of La Llorona and The Conjuring: The Devil Made Me Do It , brings a punchier touch to The Nun 2 than his predecessor, Corin Hardy. However, he fails to replicate the power that James Wan created with Valak’s debut in The Conjuring 2.
 Not only does Chaves’ camera wander, pan, and travel less than Wan’s, but it also lacks the maximalist, full-throated energy that makes the first two Conjuring movies so impactful. In general, The Nun 2 is missing the kinetic energy of The Conjuring 2 , which renders Valak more terrifying than either of the character’s solo movies.
To his credit, Chaves does make the most of The Nun 2 ’s quieter set pieces, including one late-night journey through a destroyed chapel that is masterfully paced, shot, and edited. When the film’s script allows it to abandon some of its own restrictive logic and go absurdly big in its third act, Chaves also frames Irene’s final battle with Valak in a way that emphasizes its scale without sacrificing the spatial awareness needed to keep up with it. Farmiga, meanwhile, again manages to imbue Sister Irene, a potentially one-note character, with enough humanity to effectively ground The Nun 2 ’s outsized plot.
Warner Bros. Pictures The film’s other performers don’t get the same chance. Even Reid’s Sister Debra is set up to be a more complex character than she actually proves to be. The flatness of The Nun 2 ’s supporting heroes is, unfortunately, emblematic of many of the film’s problems. Ultimately, it’s a horror movie that knows how to light a fuse and let it burn, but it struggles to deliver pay-offs that are as satisfying, shocking, or scary as they should be. As far as horror movies go, it’s the big-screen equivalent of a box of 99-cent party snaps. It’s loud and explosive, sure, but the scorch marks it leaves behind are negligible at best.
The Nun 2 is now playing in theaters.
For more details about the movie’s conclusion, please read The Nun 2 ‘s ending, explained.
Editors' Recommendations The best MCU sequels, ranked All of The Conjuring Universe horror movies, ranked from worst to best Is The Nun 2 streaming? 5 horror movie classics to stream in August 3 Netflix action movies like Meg 2 you need to watch right now Product Reviews Entertainment Shark movies have made the ocean an even scarier place than it already was. Whether it be scenarios of scuba diving gone wrong or shark-infested tornados, killer shark movies have become a subgenre of their own.
Killer shark movies come in all shapes and sizes, from masterfully crafted tense horror thrillers to intentionally over-the-top campy comedies. The horror of the deep blue sea works hand in hand with the terrors of the creatures themselves, making beach-going a bit of a scary activity after seeing some of these movies. Even though shark attacks aren't entirely common in reality, sharks are no doubt some scary beasts— which makes them a perfect antagonist for a movie.
Entertainment In The Conjuring universe, few monsters inspire more terror than Valak, the demonic creature colloquially known as the Nun. Valak can take on more than one form, but he, or it, seems to really enjoy taking this one. Horror movie fans have also been taken by the Nun, which received its own spinoff movie in 2018 that served as a prequel to The Conjuring films. This fall, The Nun 2 will follow up on the events of that film as Valak returns to terrorize the innocent once again.
THE NUN II | OFFICIAL TRAILER Entertainment What's your favorite scary movie? 27 years ago, that question was posed to Casey Becker (Fever Pitch's Drew Barrymore) by a masked killer named Ghostface in the opening scene of Scream. It - spoiler alert - did not end well for Casey. However, the course of slashers changed with the release of Scream. The film brilliantly satirized horror clichés and featured characters who openly spoke about real horror movies. But at the end of the day, Scream was still a slasher that did not shy away from blood, gore, or violence.
The Scream franchise is now amid a resurgence thanks to Scream, the fifth film in the series. The 2022 film helped relaunch the franchise and introduced Ghostface to a new generation of horror fans. Scream grossed over $140 million worldwide, spawning a direct sequel, Scream VI, which hits theaters on March 10.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
