Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix F1 Live Stream Stranger Things Season 5 Best New Movies Most Popular Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney+ UFC Live Stream Best Movies on Disney+ Home Entertainment Features Is Thor: The Dark World really the worst Marvel movie? By A.A. Dowd Close Chris Hemsworth in Thor: The Dark World Disney/Marvel / Image via Marvel Studios Ask a random smattering of fans what the best Marvel movie is, and you’re likely to get a range of replies. Is it the Oscar-winning pop-culture juggernaut Black Panther ? Maybe that all-time record-breaker Avengers: Endgame ? How about James Gunn’s funky Star Wars -meets- Dirty Dozen team-up comedy Guardians of the Galaxy ? Opinions vary, and no single favorite has emerged from this ever-continuing superhero franchise.
For years, though, a kind of general agreement was reached on the other end of the quality spectrum. While debate raged on about the zenith of the Marvel Cinematic Universe, consensus steadily formed around a single candidate for the title of the studio’s nadir. Like superheroes assembling to topple an intergalactic threat, critics and fans put aside their differences to collectively declare the zip-fizzle 2013 sequel Thor: The Dark World the worst Marvel movie.
The Dark World , which hit multiplexes 10 years ago today, was far from a flop. Enjoying a clear halo effect after the success of the previous year’s The Avengers (featuring Thor alongside four other superheroic headliners), the film opened to a robust $85 million in American theaters, and closed its worldwide theatrical run with $644 million, a haul worthy of the Norse gods. Moviegoers, too, seemed to like the film well enough, at least judging from the imperfect metric of CinemaScore. Opening night audiences handed it an A- rating — lower than The Avengers , but higher than its 2011 predecessor, which marked the big debut of Chris Hemsworth’s blonde-locked, hammer-swinging space deity.
Reviews, on the other hand, told a different story, as The Dark World earned the lowest Rotten Tomatoes score of any film in the MCU — an anti-honor it would hold onto until just a couple years ago. That muted reaction carried over to full series rankings from the likes of Variety , Esquire , Time Out , and Looper , all of which would stick The Dark World dead last. Maybe the ultimate proof that the movie’s reputation as Marvel’s rock-bottom had solidified into popular gospel was the willingness of its star to agree: “Meh,” Hemsworth pithily concluded in a 2018 GQ interview.
5 upcoming Marvel movies and TV shows that are really unnecessary What are the top 5 highest-grossing MCU movies so far? The 10 best movies in the Marvel Cinematic Universe, ranked Sandwiched between Kenneth Branagh’s origin story and the explicitly comic reinvention that was Taika Waititi’s Thor: Ragnarok , the second solo adventure for Asgard’s hunkiest hero has a tendency to fade from memory. As a refresher, it’s the one that pits Thor against a nihilistic elf supervillain. The plot, a busy bit of nonstop incidents, reunites the big guy with the love interest of his first starring vehicle, Natalie Portman’s besotted scientist Jane Foster. It then whisks them around the galaxy, from Earth to the shimmering green-screen kingdom of Asgard to the bad guy’s gloomy screen-saver netherworld. Tom Hiddleston’s recently vanquished Loki is there, too, scheming and mocking.
Marvel Studios Most of the negative things that have been said about Marvel movies over the years are present and accounted for in Thor: The Dark World.
 There’s too much exposition — a dense info drop of backstory and lore that Anthony Hopkins, reprising the role of Thor’s haughty-regal father Odin, recounts via a Tolkien-lite voice-over prologue. There’s the usual boring MacGuffin, which in this case is a vaguely defined gaseous super element the bad guy wants. The dialogue can be tiresomely quippy, an imitation Whedonese. Some of the action is weightlessly digital. Worst of all, the villain is a total undistinguished zero: a conquering mythological bore played by Christopher Eccleston, not that you can really tell under all that makeup.
Branagh’s Thor embraced the Shakespearean potential in the source material: It was a flawed but interesting mishmash of fish-out-of-water comedy and sci-fi palace intrigue. For better or worse, The Dark World flattens out those aspirations to grandeur, emerging with a breezier spectacle. The sitcom quality extends from the barrage of quick-fire jokes to the meet-the-parents plot, a malnourished romantic comedy subplot in which Portman’s Foster becomes the interloper, dropped into the conflicts of her boyfriend’s royal family. The Oscar winner is basically wasted here; enjoyable though it was in the first Thor to see Jane’s scientific resolve crumble under the weight of her attraction to the beefcake from beyond the stars, the second film reduces her to a wide-eyed damsel merely along for the save-the-universe ride.
Marvel Studios Still, what the conventional wisdom on The Dark World ignores is that there is some fun in this whirligig. A lot of it comes from the built-in sibling rivalry between Thor and Loki, who forge a relationship strong enough to carry a movie — or, in this case, to carry a bored viewer through one. One does miss the arrogance Hemsworth brought to the former under Branagh and Whedon’s stewardship; he’s a little too noble, a little too princely to be of much comic or dramatic interest in the sequel. But Hiddleston deepens his antihero here, preserving Loki’s spark of bitter mischief while suggesting wellsprings of conflicted hurt. Watching The Dark World , it’s easy to understand why Disney later thought the character deserved his own small-screen showcase.
Alan Taylor, the film’s director, is no one’s idea of a visionary auteur (his big-screen work is rather astronomically less impressive than his small-screen contributions to The Sopranos and the similarly sweeping Game of Thrones ). Yet, he brings a certain lightness of step to the action. The climax is one of Marvel’s more nimble trips to the fireworks factory: a screwball skirmish that keeps throwing the characters through wormholes and subjecting them to physical anomalies, flocks of birds, and that magical hammer zipping around the map. In general, The Dark World probably looks better than you remember, with a little more texture than the average Marvel seat-filler. Or maybe these movies just look way worse today.
In a sense, the film plays like an off issue of its comic book source material: a quick page-turner wedged between larger arcs that’s devoid of big changes to continuity (though, of course, there is one of the latter in the untimely demise of Thor’s mother, played by an underutilized Rene Russo — a motivational loss the MCU would reemphasize with an unlikely time-travel revisit years later in Avengers: Endgame.
) To that end, The Dark World isn’t so objectionable in principle. If we’re going to have endless entries in this series, shouldn’t some of them aspire to a little self-contained escapism, albeit of a perhaps more memorable nature than the cross-universe plot hiccups offered here? In retrospect and on repeat viewing, the second Thor ’s sins aren’t so grievous. It’s more disposable than objectionable, at least as far as these spit-shined blasts of CGI cape fare are concerned. What made it look, for so long, like a low point for the studio was probably the impression of something more dispiriting in its expensive multiplex junk-food design: This was the first Marvel movie that felt truly and unmistakably like product.
 Which is to say, the first that felt like a placeholder — not an event, but something fresh off the conveyor belt. It’s a vision of what Marvel would gradually become in the aftermath of The Avengers , as the appetite for its brand of wham and pow was met with an increasingly interchangeable supply. That, more than its watchable mediocrity, may be what doomed The Dark World to its low standing. Whether we knew it or not, we were all feeling the dismay of something exciting calcifying fast into formula.
These days, of course, the film’s position at the bottom of the MCU heap no longer looks so secure. Not after the bloated blandness of Eternals or the gimcrack eyesore anti-spectacle of Ant-Man and the Wasp: Quantumania.
 Hell, The Dark World might not even be the worst Thor movie anymore; it has stiff competition in that department from the direly jokey Thor: Love and Thunder.
 If anything, this installment could actually inspire some fond nostalgia a decade out: Watching it today, you can’t help but wistfully pine for an era when this was as bad as it got in Marvel land.
Thor: The Dark World is currently streaming on Disney+, and available to rent or purchase from the major digital services. For more of A.A. Dowd’s writing, please visit his Authory page.
Editors' Recommendations The Marvels: How many post-credits scenes are there in the latest MCU movie? 12 movies that should’ve been longer Marvel’s Armor Wars series is being redeveloped as a movie Every Marvel villain ranked from worst to best Marvel reveals new Avengers movies, Black Panther 2 trailer, and more Comic Book Movies Features Marvel Entertainment Disney and Marvel Studios' latest superhero endeavor, Thor: Love and Thunder, is finally out in theaters amid a whirlwind of the companies' releasing superhero projects. But for those still looking to chase that action-heavy rush coming out of Chris Hemsworth's latest adventures as the God of Thunder, the video game medium should have a handful of titles to satisfy.
Games like Sony PlayStation's God of War take things to a refreshingly grounded and cathartic level, while Square Enix's Guardians of the Galaxy will offer a familiar campy romp. Regardless, these video games should cover all the bases for fans that enjoyed Love and Thunder's biggest appeals.
Guardians of the Galaxy Entertainment After a string of delays, Marvel Studios' fourth entry and director Taika Waititi's (Jojo Rabbit) follow-up to Ragnarok is finally in theaters and has continued some predictable storylines along with some ambitious directions for Thor: Love and Thunder's characters. Love and Thunder branched out into the wider Greek mythology pantheon with Zeus, which ended by leaning into what could be another Avengers-level threat.
And, as many would have expected, Natalie Portman's literal and figurative heroic return to the Marvel Cinematic Universe led to some potentially exciting implications in the future. Post-credit scenes aside, though, even the touching finale to Thor's story in the movie helps vaguely chart out several paths for future movies.
Entertainment Thor: Love and Thunder debuted to mixed reviews from critics and fans, continuing a trend of Marvel projects that feel a little disappointing. Taika Waititi's follow-up to his critically acclaimed Ragnarok feels less focused, louder, dumber, and a lot less charming. Chris Hemsworth is back as Thor, continuing the lovable idiot shtick he's been doing since Ghostbusters and selling the hell out of it. Waititi's Korg is also in it -- excessively in it, to be honest -- and Tessa Thompson's Valkyrie also gets in on the action. Newcomers Christian Bale and Russell Crowe steal the spotlight despite being criminally underused, confirming why they're two of the last surviving movie stars. The real attraction, however, is the return of Natalie Portman's Jane Foster, or at least it should be. So why isn't it? Portman famously left the MCU following the disappointing Thor: The Dark World, a film so boring and inconsequential that most casual fans forget about its existence. She agreed to return after a meeting with Waititi promised her a new take on the character, a chance to be "adventurous, fun, and funny." However, the main change was superpowers, as Waititi chose to adapt the well-received Mighty Thor comic book storyline that sees Jane Foster take the Thor mantle and wield Mjolnir after Thor becomes unworthy. In short, Portman would finally play the hero, not the love interest.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
