Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix F1 Live Stream Stranger Things Season 5 Best New Movies Most Popular Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney+ UFC Live Stream Best Movies on Disney+ Home Entertainment Reviews Totally Killer review: a bright, funny horror gem By Alex Welch Close The film's witty, observant screenplay Complementary, note-perfect lead performances The movie's shockingly mean-spirited horror streak The film's occasionally cheap, made-for-TV look A third-act climax that isn't as satisfying as it could be The new Amazon Prime original movie Totally Killer doesn’t have particularly high aspirations. It’s a film that’s interested in little more than entertaining you for 105 minutes, and whether it’s because of or in spite of the low expectations that its story and cheaper-than-anyone-would-like aesthetic inspire, it does exactly that. Like a few other horror movies that haven’t gotten the rollout they’ve deserved this year, the film feels guaranteed to become a cult favorite in the coming months and years. There are worse fates, especially for a movie as high-spirited and charming as Totally Killer , but it’s also impossible not to wonder what it might have been had it been given just a bit more financial and commercial support.
Fortunately, the film manages to rise above its budgetary constraints with its multitude of genuinely funny, laugh-out-loud lines and sight gags, as well as the perfectly pitched performances of its cast. A time travel thriller about a young girl who tries to save her mom’s high school self from a notorious murderer, Totally Killer wears its influences on its sleeve, but is more than just a pastiche of its 1980s horror and sci-fi predecessors. There’s a real artistic personality on display throughout the film that suits its delightfully B-movie energy and winningly campy tone.
Prime Video Set in the small town of North Vernon, Totally Killer follows Jamie (Kiernan Shipka), a typically rebellious high school girl desperate to spend Halloween night away from her overbearing, overprotective mother, Pam (Julie Bowen). As the film’s tongue-in-cheek, opening true crime podcast segment reveals, North Vernon was terrorized decades prior by a masked murderer known as the “Sweet 16 Killer,” who murdered three of Pam’s fellow female classmates. While Jamie believes that her town’s darkest days are behind it, it isn’t long before North Vernon’s past has come back to haunt her, her family, and the rest of its citizens.
Upload season 3’s ending, explained What’s new on Amazon Prime Video in November 2023 The best anime on Amazon Prime Video right now When Jamie finds herself on the receiving end of a late-night attack from the potentially resurfaced Sweet 16 Killer, she ends up traveling back in time in the photo booth that was only recently converted into a time machine by her brilliant best friend, Amelia (Kelcey Mawema). Stranded in 1987, Jamie resolves to use her knowledge of the future to try and stop the Sweet 16 Killer’s infamous murders. In doing so, she brings herself face-to-face with a younger version of her own mother (played by frequent scene-stealer Olivia Holt). What follows is an unapologetically absurd, shockingly brutal time-travel adventure.
Along the way, Totally Killer takes advantage of nearly every opportunity it can to either pack in an over-the-top murder or a well-timed joke about the generational divide between Jamie and the teenage version of her mom. In particular, the film mines as much comedy as it can out of Jamie’s increasing horror over the relaxed safety standards of the 1980s and the offensive behavior of Pam and her friends. These jokes, although obvious at times, work far more often than they should, and that’s thanks not only to the wittiness of Totally Killer ’s script, penned by David Matalon, Sasha Perl-Raver, and Jen D’Angelo, but also the expressiveness of Shipka’s mostly reactionary lead performance.
Prime Video Behind the camera, Always Be My Maybe director Nahnatchka Khan brings a snappy, constantly on the move energy to Totally Killer that allows for the screwball pace of its script to fully shine through. Jeremy Cohen’s editing, meanwhile, makes space for several deadpan reverse cuts that not only add some variety to the film’s otherwise unrelenting rhythm, but only make its best sight gags hit that much harder. Together, Khan, Cohen, and the rest of their collaborators have made a horror comedy that feels visually and tonally cohesive. There’s never a sense throughout the film that anyone involved in it was on a different page from everyone else.
That fact helps one to see past Totally Killer ’s undeniably cheap look and Judd Overton’s bland, made-for-TV-esque cinematography. At times, Khan does manage to turn Totally Killer ’s clear financial limitations into a feature rather than a bug — namely, in the moments when Jamie’s trips through time are visualized with a series of dissolves and special effects that disorient the space around Shipka even as she remains in place. The sequences have such a lovely retro quality to them that they call to mind, if only briefly, 20th-century sci-fi movie classics like The Time Machine.
 Mostly, though, Totally Killer ’s disappointing aesthetic prevents it from working on as many levels as it might have otherwise.
Its visual shortcomings aside, Totally Killer is an astonishingly easy movie to spend an hour and 45 minutes with. Its rapid pace, well-observed jokes, and collection of memorable comedic performances combine together to make a horror comedy that delivers everything it should. That is to say that the film is exactly what those who would be interested in it in the first place are looking for. Even if it’s far from the best horror movie of the year, Totally Killer skillfully earns its place as one of the better additions to the existing canon of October sleepover movies that’s come along in recent memory.
Totally Killer is streaming now on Amazon Prime Video.
Editors' Recommendations The best movies on Amazon Prime Video (November 2023) 3 underrated movies on Prime Video you need to watch in November Amazon Prime Video Free Trial: Stream for a month for free 3 best horror movies on Prime Video to watch this Halloween The best horror movies on Amazon Prime right now Amazon Amazon Prime Video Product Reviews Streaming Services Entertainment The Assassination of Jesse James by the Coward Robert Ford Warner Bros.
After years of anticipation, Martin Scorsese’s latest movie, Killers of the Flower Moon, is finally here. The film, an adaptation of David Grann’s 2017 nonfiction novel of the same name, explores the real-life murders that were carried out against members of the Osage Nation after oil was discovered under their lands in 1920s Oklahoma. Running 206 minutes long and starring Scorsese mainstays like Leonardo DiCaprio and Robert De Niro, as well as a quietly transcendent Lily Gladstone, the drama is a chilling exploration of greed, systemic racism, and white supremacy.
Entertainment In a theatrical landscape dominated by franchises, sequels, and IP, horror remains one of the most reliable genres at the box office. Audiences have proven they will come out to the theater for horror movies. Classics like Jaws and The Exorcist are among the biggest horror hits of all time. The horror genre also has spawned numerous success stories of low-budget films churning huge profits. Notable examples include Paranormal Activity and The Blair Witch Project.
However, not every horror film can be a hit. Some movies flop hard at the box office, with losses exceeding $100 million. Below, we listed the seven biggest horror movie bombs of all time, ranked by their estimated losses adjusted for inflation.
Entertainment October is a month when you really need to hype yourself up. Not only do you need to mentally prepare for the upcoming holiday season, you also need to get ready for the colder weather to come. Relaxing at home with one of the best action movies on Prime Video can really get you pumped for the challenging and busy months to come.
Here, we have put together 3 action movies on Prime Video you need to watch in October. You might have already seen a few, but they have great re-watch potential. And if you haven’t watched them yet, what are you waiting for? With these flicks streaming on Amazon Prime Video right now, it’s the perfect time to watch them before they’re gone.
Black Adam (2022) Black Adam – Official Trailer 1 Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
