Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix F1 Live Stream Stranger Things Season 5 Best New Movies Most Popular Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney+ UFC Live Stream Best Movies on Disney+ Home Entertainment News Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? What channel is the UFC fight on today? Watch UFC 295 live By Noah McGraw Close UFC If you’re looking for the UF 295 channel, you might be asking the wrong questions. Jiří Procházka vs. Alex Pereira is an ESPN+ exclusive PPV, so you technically can’t watch it on network or cable TV. You’ll need an ESPN+ subscription and a smart tv, computer or phone. Keep reading to see how to watch UFC online.
What channel is the UFC fight tonight? How to watch the UFC 295 live stream What channel is the UFC fight tonight? UFC 295 is an exclusive UFC PPV event in the U.S., and it will be broadcast tonight, Saturday, November 11. The main event will be streamed on ESPN+, and you’ll need to buy the PPV. While the fight won’t be broadcast on ESPN, so this technically isn’t a channel, you can still watch it on any smart TV, phone or computer with an ESPN+ account. You can read more about your sign up options below.
While the main event costs $80 and is streamed exclusively on ESPN+ PPV, there are more fights happening at the event that you can stream for cheaper, or even for free. At 6:15 p.m. ET, a round of early prelim fights start streaming on ESPN+ and YouTube, from the ESPNMMA account. There are four fights of various weight classes. At 8:00 p.m. ET, ESPN+ and ESPNMMA on YouTube will broadcast four more prelim fights. Then finally, around 10:00 p.m. ET, the main event starts. It will feature five total fights including an interim title fight and the Light Heavyweight Championship bout between Jiří Procházka and Alex Pereira.
NFL games today: schedule, channels, live streams for November 12 UFC PPV: How much is the UFC 295 PPV? Man City vs Young Boys live stream: Can you watch for free? How to watch the UFC 295 live stream The main card of UFC 295 is an ESPN+ exclusive PPV. That means you’ll have to buy the event and also be an ESPN+ subscriber. The PPV portion of the event costs $80, and there’s no way around that. There are, however, a few different options for buying the ESPN+ subscription. Unfortunately there isn’t an ESPN+ free trial , so the cheapest option is to get one month of ESPN+ for $11, bringing the total for the event to $91. If you don’t yet have a Disney+ or Hulu account, you can buy the Disney Bundle for $15. This gets you access to all three streaming sites, so it’s definitely worth it if you’re interested in even two of them.
The third option is a special promotion for this UFC event. You can currently buy the PPV and a year of ESPN+ for $135. Since a year of ESPN+ is normally $110, this is saving you $55 total. This is a great chance for UFC fans to grab an ESPN+ subscription and save some money. Remember, you’ll have to be an ESPN+ subscriber for the next UFC PPV too, so you might as well have a membership.
If you want to watch UC 295 early prelims and prelims, you don’t actually need any subscriptions at all. They will all stream on the ESPNMMA YouTube account. They will also stream on ESPN+, so if you already have an account or buy one for UFC 295, you can stream them there too. If you’re not in the U.S. there are a wide variety of options for watching around the world, all of which are PPVs. You can also just use one of the best VPNs for streaming to connect to a server in the U.S. and watch the fight that way.
Editors' Recommendations 2023 Feast Week live stream: watch Thanksgiving college basketball for free What time is the UFC fight tonight? Full UFC 295 schedule UFC live stream: How to watch UFC from anywhere, legally Dortmund vs Newcastle live stream: Can you watch for free? AC Milan vs PSG live stream: Can you watch the game for free? Tech News Entertainment Week 9 features four excellent games, with one in every time window. The action starts Sunday morning when the Miami Dolphins play the Kansas City Chiefs in Germany. The early afternoon window features the Seattle Seahawks taking on the Baltimore Ravens. The late afternoon slate includes a potential NFC Championship matchup between the Dallas Cowboys and Philadelphia Eagles. Last but not least, the Buffalo Bills and Cincinnati Bengals square off in the night game.
Overall, the Week 9 schedule contains 12 games on Sunday, November 5. Today's results will go a long way in determining the number-one overall seeds in the AFC and NFC. Streaming information for each game is listed below. Remember, every game is available to watch with a subscription to NFL Sunday Ticket, which slashed prices for the back half of the season, through YouTube TV. For new customers, YouTube TV offers a free trial at sign-up.
Miami Dolphins at Kansas City Chiefs start time, channel, and live stream Entertainment Looking to watch Formula 1 racing online? Whether you're planning to watch the action unfold on a smart TV or streaming stick or you want to be able to catch every lap on your laptop or mobile device when you're on the go, we've got everything you need to know right here. Read on to learn how to watch Formula 1 online, how much it will cost you, and whether there's a free F1 live stream. We've also got a full Grand Prix schedule, so you can see what you can look forward to during the 74th F1 World Championship.
Watch the free F1 live stream The 274th F1 World Championship is being aired for free in Austria and Luxembourg. This is great news for those in the countries, but not so great for residents traveling abroad who want to watch the action unfold live in their local language -- especially when it's free to watch at home. It's only fitting that an Austrian currently in the United States would want to watch the race in Austrian and not English, right? This is completely safe (and legal) to do with a VPN.
Entertainment If you're new to boxing and want to catch all the bouts from the biggest stars in the sport, we can help you find the best and cheapest ways to watch boxing online. It can get complicated. Fighters are tied to specific promoters who are tied to specific streaming sites. The days of Friday night fights on network TV are long gone.
There are two main ways boxing is streamed: Pay-per-view fights and fights included in a monthly subscription. When a fight is a PPV, there's no way of getting around that fee. Some sites give subscribers a discount on the PPV price, but when you include subscription fees it ultimately costs the same. We'll be sure to show you the best ways to watch PPV boxing matches when they happen, but right now we'll focus on the various subscription services that give you access to regular fights.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
