Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix F1 Live Stream Stranger Things Season 5 Best New Movies Most Popular Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney+ UFC Live Stream Best Movies on Disney+ Home Entertainment News Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? What time is the UFC fight tonight? Full UFC 295 schedule By Noah McGraw Close UFC It’s UFC 295 time. The event kicks off this weekend and includes several rounds of MMA — 13 matches total. Jiří Procházka (29-3-1) will fight Alex Pereira (8-2) for the Light Heavyweight Championship in the main event. The title is currently vacant, so this match will determine who rules the division. It’s a UFC PPV event that will stream on ESPN+ in the U.S. Here’s everything you need to know to watch UFC this weekend.
What time is the UFC fight tonight? How to Watch the UFC 295 Live Stream What time is the UFC fight tonight? UFC 295 will be broadcast on ESPN+ on Saturday, November 11. There are several rounds of fights taking place throughout the day. Here is a breakdown: Early Prelims – 6:15 p.m. ET Prelims – 8:00 p.m. ET Main Card – 10:00 p.m. ET The early prelims will be streamed on several sites, including ESPN+ and even YouTube, by the ESPNMMA channel. These fights usually feature up-and-comers fighting gatekeeping veterans. UFC has confirmed four fights in the early prelims. Even if they end in early knockouts, the next round of fights won’t start until 8:00 p.m., so don’t worry about missing the prelims if you can’t watch the early prelims.
UFC PPV: How much is the UFC 295 PPV? How to watch boxing online: Stream every fight What time is Logan Paul vs Dillon Danis today? Full schedule After the early prelims there will be a round of regular prelims. These will also be streamed on YouTube and ESPN+ in the U.S. There are four more prelims in this round, which starts at 8:00 p.m. ET. The prelim round will feature two lightweight fights, a flyweight fight, and a women’s strawweight fight. Again, even if they all end quickly, the main card isn’t going to start until 10:00 p.m.
There are five fights on the main card tonight, including the main event. Up first will be featherweights Diego Lopez vs. Pat Sabatini. Then Matt Frevola vs. Benoît Saint-Denis in a lightweight fight, Jéssica Andrade vs. Mackenzie Dern in a strawweight fight, and Sergei Pavlovich vs. Tom Aspinall in heavyweight fight for the interim title. Finally we have Jiří Procházka vs. Alex Pereira in the main event. Originally the card was supposed to be headlined by Jon Jones vs. Stipe Miocic for Jones’ Heavyweight Championship, but Jones had to back out do to a pectoral muscle injury.
How to Watch the UFC 295 Live Stream If you’re in the U.S., your only option for watching the game live is the ESPN+ PPV. The fight itself costs $80. You will also have to be an ESPN+ subscriber. If you’re not already, there are a few price options for signing up, including a discount if you bundle your subscription with this PPV.
Your first option is to buy a standard ESPN+ subscription for $11 per month. You can cancel it immediately and essentially pay $91 for this PPV if that’s all you want to watch. You can also bundle UFC 295 with the Disney Bundle for $15, plus $80 for the PPV. This also gets you access to Disney+ and Hulu.
 While it doesn’t save you any money on this PPV specifically, it’s the cheapest way to get Hulu, Disney+ and ESPN+, if you’re interested in even two of those streaming services.
 A third option, which was introduced just for this PPV, is to get a year of ESPN+ and the UFC 295 PPV for $135 total. Since ESPN+ is normally $110 per year, this bundle is essentially saving you $55.
Editors' Recommendations What channel is the UFC fight on today? Watch UFC 295 live UFC live stream: How to watch UFC from anywhere, legally Fury vs. Ngannou live stream: Can you watch for free? What time is the KSI vs Tommy Fury fight today? Full schedule Everton vs Arsenal live stream: Kick off time and how to watch Streaming Services Tech News Entertainment The UFC is putting on a show tonight with UFC 292, an event that has Aljamain Sterling taking on Sean O’Malley for the Bantamweight Title. There isn’t a way to watch the main card for free, though there are quite a few exciting fights on the preliminary card, which you can watch at no additional cost if you already have access to ESPN. You’ll need access to ESPN Plus in order to watch Sterling vs O’Malley and the rest of the main card, however, and we’ve got all of the details you need to make up your mind about an ESPN Plus subscription.
Watch the UFC 292 live stream on ESPN Plus ESPN Plus is ESPN’s standalone streaming service, and it has exclusive coverage of UFC 292 and the Sterling vs O’Malley fight. Unfortunately, it’s a separate subscription from an ESPN cable subscription, which means you’ll need to shell out $10 per month in order to watch ESPN Plus. ESPN Plus is also available for $13 per month as part of the Disney Bundle, which also gets you access to Disney+ and Hulu.
Entertainment The Jake Paul vs Nate Diaz fight is later today. It's happening at the American Airlines Center in Dallas, Texas. A grudge match by this stage and the pair's last fight, if you're keen to know when Jake Paul time is, we're here to help. We've got everything you need to know about when the Jake Paul fight commences along with the full event schedule. The social media star will be keen to win against former UFC star, Nate Diaz with his current run of 6-1 looking pretty sharp. Diaz went 16-11 in the UFC over 27 contests so he's also certainly a force to be reckoned with. Let's take a look at what you need to know about the fight.
What time is the Jake Paul fight today? As with all PPV cards, there are a lot of timings to keep track of with the Jake Paul fight. The main card starts at 8 PM ET/5 PM PT however we won't see the duo take to the ring until around 11 PM ET/8 PM PT depending on how long the undercard fights last.
The full card includes a title fight between Amanda Serrano vs Heather Hardy over 10 rounds to see if Serrano can retain an undisputed women's featherweight title. There's also women's super middleweights, Shadasia Green and Olivia Curry. A lightweight fight between Ashton Sylve and William Silva takes place, along with super middleweights Chris Avila and Jeremy Stephens, along with Alan Sanchez and Angel Beltran Villa in the welterweights.
Entertainment The Ultimate Fighting Championship is returning to Miami for the first time in 20 years today. There, at the Miami-Dade Arena, Alex "Poatan" Pereira will be defending his newly won title against former champ Israel "The Last Stylebender" Adesanya. This title rematch is the fourth encounter between these two fighters, and since it's a pay-per-view event, you'll need to sign up for ESPN+ watch UFC 287 at home. That's right: There's no free UFC 287 live stream -- not a legal one, anyway.
Watch the UFC 287 live stream on ESPN Plus UFC 287 is the MMA promotion's big pay-per-view event for April. The league typically runs one of these PPV shows each month (with some exceptions, like last month where fans got treated to two pay-per-views), and in the U.S., the only venue for watching UFC PPV events is ESPN+. The American sports broadcaster launched tits premium streaming app in 2018, and since then, it has become the number one outlet for any MMA fans looking to stream UFC fights online.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
