Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix F1 Live Stream Stranger Things Season 5 Best New Movies Most Popular Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney+ UFC Live Stream Best Movies on Disney+ Home Entertainment Features Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? You probably didn’t watch the most underrated crime thriller of the 2010s. Here’s why you should see it now By Alex Welch Close 20th Century Studios In 2018, one of the greatest directors alive made a surprising, creatively inspired left turn. Just five years after he won Best Picture for 12 Years a Slave , Steve McQueen released his fourth feature directorial effort, Widows.
 Co-written by Gone Girl scribe Gillian Flynn, the crime thriller marked McQueen’s first foray into the kind of genre filmmaking he’d long avoided. Not only was it an unexpected follow-up to an austere award winner like 12 Years a Slave , but it felt like a purposeful change of pace for a director whose previous credits also included decidedly dour dramas like Hunger and Shame.
Widows begins with a bang and doesn’t let up Widows has a great cast An action movie with a message Many viewed the decision with skepticism: Was McQueen really the right fit for a pulpy thriller about a group of widows who decide to pick up where their deceased criminal husbands left off? When it was eventually released, Widows was welcomed with little fanfare. Some seemed to regard it as an intriguing, but ultimately minor experiment on McQueen’s part, and while it wasn’t a box office bomb, casual moviegoers didn’t run out in droves to see it, either.
Five years later, Widows ’ merits are obvious, as is its place as one of the most engaging and well-constructed crime thrillers of its decade. The film is one of McQueen’s most visually dynamic, narratively precise efforts, and it features not just one, but two genuinely astonishing performances, one from its titanic lead, Viola Davis, and the other from her breakout co-star, The Crown ‘s Elizabeth Debicki.
This underrated 2016 action comedy is just as good as Chinatown. Here’s why you should watch it This action film is one of the most popular movies on Netflix. Here’s why you should watch it Widows begins with a bang and doesn’t let up 20th Century Fox Widows opens in startling fashion. Through a series of quick vignettes, the film establishes the relationships between its central women and their husbands. We see the rituals that Davis’ Veronica and her husband, Harry (Liam Neeson), would make time for before one of the latter’s routine heists. We get a glimpse into the abusive relationship between Debicki’s Alice and her husband, Florek (Jon Bernthal), one of Harry’s partners. Similar moments offer glimpses into the strained marriages between Carlos ( The Lincoln Lawyer ‘s Manuel Garcia-Rulfo ) and Jimmy (Coburn Goss), two of Harry’s other co-conspirators, and their respective wives, Linda (Michelle Rodriguez) and Amanda (Carrie Coon). McQueen cuts back and forth from these instances of plaintive domesticity to a heist gone wrong, which climaxes with Harry, Carlos, Jimmy, and Florek all dying in a fiery explosion.
This opening montage establishes not only the criminal world of Widows , but also its somber tone, propulsive pace, and contradictory nature. The film is simultaneously fractured and fluid. McQueen and Flynn’s screenplay adopts an elliptical, fragmented style that reflects the emotionally confused, volatile headspaces of its widowed leads — namely, Davis’ Veronica and Debicki’s Alice. Over the course of its runtime, hard-hitting truths are revealed via jarring cuts. In one moment, McQueen uses the literal opening of a door as the intro to a brutally succinct flashback.
At the same time, the director packs Widows to the brim with long takes that span entire rooms and frequently circle its characters. In doing so, he creates an exciting contrast between the film’s narrative structure and its visual language. As pulpy as it is, Widows is an intimate, emotionally intense film, and by making his camera so active throughout it, McQueen ensures that every scene feels fittingly dangerous and unpredictable.
Widows has a great cast That volatility is reflected in the film’s best performances. Davis and Debicki shine as two quiet, reserved women desperate to find some kind of sure footing again. Meanwhile, despite playing the film’s most unhinged, violent character, Daniel Kaluuya brings an unsettling confidence and sense of calm to his performance as the brother and head enforcer of Jamal Manning ( Causeway ‘s Brian Tyree Henry), a low-level crime boss and aspiring politician.
20th Century Fox Widows uses its stylistic flourishes to visually emphasize its ideas about the roles that inequality, privilege, cruelty, and kindness have to play not only in one’s relationships, but in the actual construction and politics of the world. As a film about a group of women forced to pick up the pieces of their husbands’ failures, many of Widows ’ political ideas are baked into its very premise, but the film uses the relationship between Davis’ closed-off Veronica and Debicki’s unmoored Alice to explore the importance of both tenderness and emotional vulnerability.
An action movie with a message Behind the camera, McQueen uses the film’s Chicago setting to make its points clear. In one instance, he stages a horrifying police shooting near a wall covered in Barack Obama’s 2008 presidential campaign posters. During a different scene, he locks his camera onto the hood of a car as it drives from a low-income neighborhood to an affluent Chicago suburb within just two minutes, all while its passenger, Jack Mulligan (Colin Farrell), spews out racist clichés about the very constituents he’s campaigning to represent.
By shooting the scene how he does, McQueen makes the gap between Jack, a clear product of nepotism, and the people he claims to care about hauntingly clear. It’s hard, in fact, to think of a moment in a recent blockbuster that has as effectively laid out the disconnect between America’s citizens and its politicians.
Widows isn’t like most modern blockbusters, though. It’s just as thrilling and explosive as you’d want a crime thriller like it to be, but it’s also richer and more emotionally and intellectually engaging than most mainstream Hollywood films of the past five years. It shouldn’t, in other words, be nearly as obscure or underrated as it is. There simply aren’t many other contemporary American thrillers like it.
Widows is streaming now on Freevee.
Editors' Recommendations This horror remake shocked audiences 5 years ago. Here’s why you should watch it this Halloween Extraction 2 is the most popular Netflix movie right now. Here’s why you should watch it Heat is one of the best movies ever. Here’s why you should watch it on Netflix right now Amazon Amazon Prime Video Features Streaming Services Entertainment Few comics outside of the world of comic book movies and superheroes have had greater influence in recent years than Scott Pilgrim vs. the World. The story was created by author Bryan Lee O'Malley and follows a man named Scott living in Toronto who is forced to battle the evil exes of a girl that he's interested in.
The legacy of Scott Pilgrim only increased after a movie adaptation was released several years later and became a cult classic in its own right. Now, with the new animated series adaptation Scott Pilgrim Takes Off streaming on Netflix, we're here to make the case that Scott Pilgrim is the best comic book ever. Here are 10 reasons why: It has a unique sensibility Entertainment On November 20, 1973, Charlie Brown and the Peanuts taught us to count our blessings and appreciate the important things in life in A Charlie Brown Thanksgiving. In the Emmy Award-winning animated special, Charlie and Sally Brown are supposed to head to their grandmother's house for Thanksgiving. Before they can leave, Peppermint Patty invites herself and a few friends over for dinner. Even though he can't cook, Charlie Brown decides to improvise and cook a simple meal with the help of Snoopy and Linus before heading to his grandma's.
Though not as popular as A Charlie Brown Christmas and It's the Great Pumpkin, Charlie Brown, A Charlie Brown Thanksgiving is still quite effective in conveying the true meaning of the holiday. It's an appropriate tribute to Thanksgiving. Here's how to watch A Charlie Brown Thanksgiving.
Watch A Charlie Brown Thanksgiving on Apple TV+ Entertainment This week is a particularly memorable one for Netflix's original series with two big premieres. The Crown – the British drama that has been one of the most popular shows on Netflix since its premiere in 2016 – is heading towards the finish line with the premiere of its sixth and final season. Additionally, the cult classic film and comic, Scott Pilgrim vs. the World, is getting a new anime series, Scott Pilgrim Takes Off.
With the Thanksgiving holiday coming next week, there's never been a better time to catch up on what's new on Netflix. You may even need the breather because it's been a busy year for Netflix. Don't worry, our weekly update of the best shows on Netflix will always be updated on Fridays to help you plan your weekend binge.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
