Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix F1 Live Stream Stranger Things Season 5 Best New Movies Most Popular Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney+ UFC Live Stream Best Movies on Disney+ Home Entertainment Guides 7 best cosmic Marvel characters ever, ranked By Blair Marnell Close The Marvels isn’t the only movie or piece of content that features Marvel’s cosmic heroes. In the early 1960s, Marvel Comics stood out from DC by introducing grounded and realistic characters like Spider-Man , Iron Man, Hulk, and the Fantastic Four.
 Unlike Superman, Wonder Woman, and Green Lantern, Marvel’s heroes weren’t godlike or infallible. They were simply human. But it didn’t take too long before Marvel introduced some powerhouse cosmic heroes of their own. Giving these beings a greater sense of humanity was the key to making them work within the context of Marvel’s comic book universe. Some of them were even human before they were thrust into extraordinary circumstances across the galaxy.
7. Cosmic Ghost Rider 6. Quasar 5. Captain Marvel (Carol Danvers) 4. Nova 3. Captain Marvel (Mar-Vell) 2. Adam Warlock 1. Silver Surfer When considering the seven best cosmic Marvel characters, we decided that it would be best to focus on the heroes. Galactus and Thanos are magnificent creations, but only as villains on a cosmic scale. It takes a truly special hero to go up against threats like that. Only a few of the characters below have appeared in Marvel’s comic book movies. But the Guardians of the Galaxy can’t hog the cosmic spotlight forever, and you’re likely to see many of these heroes on-screen within the next few years.
7. Cosmic Ghost Rider Image used with permission by copyright holder Would you believe that this guy used to be the Punisher? In Donny Cates and artist Geoff Shaw’s 2018 run on the Thanos comic book series, they introduced an alternate future for the Marvel Universe in which Thanos reigned supreme after killing everything and everyone in his path. Not even Frank Castle, a.k.a. the Punisher, was immune from Thanos’ rampage. But as one of the few Marvel heroes condemned to Hell for his life of violence, a deal with a demon gave Castle a second chance at revenge as the new Ghost Rider.
Marvel’s What If…? season 2 trailer teases multiverse adventure 3 things that The Marvels got right What went wrong with The Marvels? 5 reasons why the MCU is in trouble In the centuries that followed, Castle went crazy from the solitude of being the last person alive on Earth. When Galactus showed up looking for help against Thanos, all he found was a broken Ghost Rider who agreed to become his new herald with enhanced powers and abilities. That’s how Castle became Cosmic Ghost Rider. But in a cruel twist, Thanos easily defeated Galactus and made Cosmic Ghost Rider his servant.
Shortly after his initial appearance and his subsequent destruction, Cosmic Ghost Rider reemerged in the present-day Marvel Universe. However, Castle’s attempts to rewrite history have gone horribly wrong, and he’s so loopy that his current persona is more like Deadpool than the Punisher.
6. Quasar Image used with permission by copyright holder Three decades ago, all you really needed to be a cosmic Marvel hero was a brightly colored costume, a mullet, and a pair of Quantum Bands. That’s Wendell Vaughn in a nutshell. Marvel’s original Quasar was envisioned as an everyman hero, so he wasn’t always the bravest or the brightest of the bunch. But his heart was in the right place, and Quasar was a reliable cosmic Avenger in the ’90s who held down his own comic book series. Quasar was even among the heroes who confronted Thanos in The Infinity Guantlet , the comic book storyline that inspired the Marvel Cinematic Universe’s Avengers: Infinity War.
Despite cheating death multiple times, Marvel has seemingly moved on from Wendell’s version of Quasar. One of Wendell’s successors was Phyla-Vell, the daughter of the original Captain Marvel. And we have to admit, her Quasar costume (below) is cooler than Wendell’s.
Image used with permission by copyright holder 5. Captain Marvel (Carol Danvers) From left, Ms. Marvel, Captain Marvel, and Warbird, as painted by Alex Ross.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Carol Danvers was important to the Marvel Universe long before she became Captain Marvel. In fact, she’s only been Captain Marvel for just over a decade. Her first appearance came in 1968 as a supporting character in the adventures of Marvel’s original Captain Marvel, Mar-Vell. Carol was simply an ordinary human at the time, although she was an accomplished officer in the Air Force. Carol befriended Mar-Vell when he was undercover as a human scientist named Walter Lawson. Mar-Vell also saved Carol’s life when she was exposed to an experimental machine.
That machine gave Carol powers like Mar-Vell’s abilities, including flight, strength, energy manipulation, super speed, and more. In the late ’70s, Carol became a heroine in her own right as Ms. Marvel, before becoming the cosmic-powered Binary in the ’80s. Carol was largely depowered in the ’90s before she rebranded herself as Warbird. She subsequently reclaimed the Ms. Marvel name before she encountered a temporarily resurrected Mar-Vell in 2012’s Avengers vs. X-Men event. Watching Mar-Vell sacrifice his life again inspired Carol to take his code name as her own. And since then, Carol has been Marvel’s most prominent female hero in the cosmos.
4. Nova Image used with permission by copyright holder Superhero code names tend to get recycled a lot in the Marvel Universe. This is why there are multiple Ghost Riders, Quasars, and Captain Marvels. Novas are no exception. But in this case, we are not talking about the teenage Nova, Sam Alexander, or the former herald of Galactus, Frankie Raye (who became a different kind of Nova). Instead, our pick is Richard Rider, a young man who earned his place on this list for heroics that go back to the 1970s! Legendary comic creator Marv Wolfman and artist John Romita Sr. created The Man Called Nova , an ongoing comic book series that introduced Richard as a working class hero who gained his powers after a chance encounter with a dying Nova Centurion named Rhomann Dey. If that name sounds familiar, it may be because Rhomann Dey was played by John C. Reilly in Guardians of the Galaxy.
 Admittedly, Richard’s origin kind of rips off DC’s Green Lantern. Marvel even shamelessly called the assembled Novas “the Nova Corps,” long after the Green Lantern Corps had been established.
Richard’s incarnation of Nova flamed out by the ’80s before he had a revival in the ’90s as a founding member of the New Warriors. But Richard didn’t earn his stripes as a leading hero until Marvel’s Annihilation and Annihilation: Conquest events in 2006 and 2007, respectively.
Conquest was also the storyline that led to the creation of the modern Guardians of the Galaxy. And it’s only a matter of time before Richard joins his friends on the big screen.
3. Captain Marvel (Mar-Vell) Image used with permission by copyright holder Within the Marvel Universe, the original Captain Marvel, Mar-Vell, has been dead for over 40 years. So why does he rank higher on this list than his successor, Carol Danvers? Because Mar-Vell wasn’t just a typical hero. He was an outcast from his people, the Kree, who worked tirelessly to save everyone in the universe regardless of who and what they were. Mar-Vell was Marvel’s first true cosmic superhero who had adventures far beyond the confines of Earth. He was also the first and only major Marvel hero to die and stay dead. That makes him a martyr as well as a legend.
The Death of Captain Marvel was Marvel’s first original graphic novel in 1982, and writer/artist Jim Starlin crafted an end for Mar-Vell that was a worthy sendoff. Earth’s mightiest heroes came to pay tribute to Mar-Vell as his body succumbed to terminal cancer. Yet even in the face of his inevitable demise, Mar-Vell’s bravery didn’t falter. Years later, it was revealed that Mar-Vell had three children: Genis-Vell, Phyla-Vell, and Teddy Kaplan/Dorrek VIII. Genis and Phyla briefly assumed the Captain Marvel identity, while their half-brother, Teddy, established himself as the hero Hulkling in Young Avengers.
 Through his children, Mar-Vell’s legacy continues to this day.
2. Adam Warlock Image used with permission by copyright holder Casual comic book movie fans recently got their first glimpse at Adam Warlock in Guardians of the Galaxy Vol. 3.
 Fantastic Four creators Stan Lee and Jack Kirby came up with the first version of Warlock in 1966, when he was simply called “Him,” an artificial being who was created by human scientists. Later creators including Roy Thomas, Gil Kane, and Jim Starlin gave Warlock his name and his messianic overtones. In terms of power, Warlock was also one of the few Marvel heroes who could stand up to the Mad Titan, Thanos. Not even Warlock’s death could keep him down, as he returned from beyond the grave to defeat Thanos.
Warlock returned several years later during the buildup to The Infinity Gauntlet , the storyline where Thanos used the Infinity Gems (or Infinity Stones, as they are called in the MCU) to wipe out half of the universe. As seen in the image above, Warlock emerged the victor, and he was briefly the supreme being in the Marvel Universe. Fortunately, Warlock gave up that power and resumed a more normal existence. Despite a constant cycle of death and rebirth, he remains one of Marvel’s most prominent cosmic heroes. So far, the MCU’s live-action version of Warlock hasn’t even scratched the surface of his true potential.
1. Silver Surfer Image used with permission by copyright holder To non-comic book fans, Silver Surfer may initially appear somewhat goofy. He is, after all, traveling through space on a silver surfboard. But the Silver Surfer is easily the best cosmic character Marvel has ever created. Lee and Kirby created the Surfer for their initial Galactus storyline within the pages of Fantastic Four.
 The Surfer was Galactus’ herald, who led him to Earth so that the Devourer of Worlds could feed on the planet and sustain himself. However, the Surfer was befriended by Alicia Masters, the blind girlfriend of Ben Grimm/The Thing. And through that friendship, Silver Surfer was inspired to rebel against his master for the sake of humanity.
The Surfer’s redemption came at a high cost, as he was exiled on Earth for several years and unable to return to his home world, Zenn-La. In the first Silver Surfer comic book, readers learned that he was once a human-like scientist named Norrin Radd. To save his world, and his lover, Shalla-Bal, Norrin agreed to serve Galactus, who used the Power Cosmic to transform Norrin into the Silver Surfer. During his long period on Earth, Norrin struggled with the idea of whether he had made the right decision to turn against Galactus as he saw firsthand the depths of humanity’s capacity for evil. But he also saw the good in humanity, and fought to protect the planet when his power was needed.
During the ’80s, Silver Surfer was finally freed from the confines of Earth for cosmic adventures that paved the way for decades of comic book stories including The Infinity Gauntlet and Annihilation.
 So far, Silver Surfer has only made one live-action appearance on the big screen in 2007’s Fantastic Four: Rise of the Silver Surfer.
 But given his importance to the Marvel Universe, it’s inevitable that the Silver Surfer will be reintroduced in the MCU. It’s only a matter of when.
Editors' Recommendations The 10 best characters in the Hunger Games movies, ranked The 10 best versions of Marvel’s Venom, ranked 7 most underrated Breaking Bad episodes ever, ranked The best MCU sequels, ranked The Marvels: Is it the worst MCU movie ever? Comic Book Movies Marvel Entertainment Recently, Variety released a bombshell article alleging that Marvel Studios is rethinking its plans for its ongoing Multiverse Saga following the lackluster success of its many films and TV shows. The studio is even supposedly pondering not having Kang the Conqueror be the saga's overarching villain after all since the character's actor, Jonathan Majors, is now on trial for accusations of domestic violence.
All in all, the studio clearly needs to return to the drawing board to bring the Marvel Cinematic Universe back to its former glory, and the higher-ups should consider doing these things in a revised Multiverse Saga.
Have the heroes save the world less Entertainment It's November, which means it's time for the usual seasonal things: holiday movies no one wants to see; too many football games to keep track of; and sales on stuff you probably don't need. It's also time for another Marvel movie, and the latest one, The Marvels, promises more of the same except with a lot less fan enthusiasm and critical acclaim.
Yes, the MCU is in a bit of a slump lately, but that hasn't stopped people curious about what's going on all these multiverses and what latest Easter eggs are teasing future plotlines. The Marvels is no different, as it contains the usual post-credits scene(s) that are designed to whip up enthusiasm for the movie itself and potential sequels down the road. But how many post-credits scenes are there in The Marvels? And just what happens in those scenes and who cameos? Digital Trends has all the answers for you below.
How many post-credits scenes are there in The Marvels? There's only one post-credits scene in The Marvels. Usually, there are two, but even Marvel has to be frugal in this tight economy.
The Marvels post-credits scene number 1 Entertainment When it comes to superheroes, everyone's got an opinion. But since Marvel Studios is openly struggling, and The Marvels may have a truly disastrous opening, we thought it would be a good time to see what some of the diehard fans have been saying online.
I scoured Reddit for the seven most unpopular opinions about the MCU, which I've reproduced below, followed by my thoughts on each one.
7. Premature multiverse Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
