Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix F1 Live Stream Stranger Things Season 5 Best New Movies Most Popular Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney+ UFC Live Stream Best Movies on Disney+ Home Entertainment Guides The 50 best anime on Hulu right now By Guillermo Kurten , Blair Marnell and Michael Bizzaco Close Hulu is among the most reliable mainstream platforms for streaming some of the best anime today. There are undoubtedly more singularly focused streamers for this genre, like Crunchyroll and Hidive, but Hulu is an admirable supplement. Between its serialized TV shows and movies, the service has a healthy dose of variety in its anime offerings. Perhaps more importantly, these productions span a broad range of genres to ensure every fan finds something they’ll enjoy.
The best way to enjoy Hulu’s catalog — anime and otherwise — is the Disney Bundle , as it offersthe most value for your dollar. This bundled package gives audiences a slew of TV, film, and sports content from Disney+ , ESPN+, and the base ad-supported Hulu plan. Fans will be able to enjoy dozens of hours of Star Wars and Marvel Studios content in addition to Hulu’s terrific anime selection.
Fans around the world are surely thankful for the anime genre’s newfound accessibility in the modern age, but it can still nonetheless be intimidating to know where to start. Thankfully, for prospective fans who might be feeling even a bit overwhelmed, we also have a guide on the best anime available on Netflix so fans can make the most of their options.
SPY x FAMILY tv-14 2022 Undead Unluck tv-ma 2023 Tokyo Revengers tv-ma 2021 Zom 100: Bucket List of the Dead tv-ma 2023 SPY x FAMILY (2022) new tv-14 2 Seasons Animation, Comedy, Action & Adventure Takuya Eguchi, Atsumi Tanezaki, Saori Hayami watch on Hulu watch on Hulu Animation studios Wit and CloverWorks’ adaptation of Tatsuya Endo’s Spy x Family has become one of the biggest contemporary shounen hits. Follow along with Loid Forger — aka Agent Twilight — as he embarks on a covert mission to quell a potential international disaster. The show then morphs into a touching, fun, and humorous story about the “found family” theme, which has been a refreshing change of pace.
The rest of the cast comprised of Anya, Yor, and their dog, Bond Forger, complete this delightful anime rendition of sitcom tropes. And season 2 of Spy x Family has more than kept up the pace from its debut. Its episodic structure with an overarching plot sprinkled in makes the series easy to engage with.
Read less The 50 best movies on Netflix right now (November 2023) The best Hulu original series right now The best Black movies on Netflix right now Undead Unluck (2023) new tv-ma 1 Season Animation, Comedy, Sci-Fi & Fantasy, Action & Adventure Moe Kahara, Yuichi Nakamura, Natsuki Hanae watch on Hulu watch on Hulu David Production, the animation studio behind the beloved JoJo’s Bizarre Adventure adaptation, has brought Yoshifumi Tozuka’s Undead Unluck to the screen. Cursed with a mysterious ability that causes tragic death to anyone who touches her, Fuuko Izumo welcomes her death.
But just as she’s about to die, a strange man touches her, causing him to fall in front of an oncoming train — but he begins to regenerate and is revealed to be immortal. Fuuko dubs him Andy and teams up with him to give his life one last hurrah, but the duo faces the threat of a shadowy group trying to exploit their powers.
Read less Tokyo Revengers (2021) new tv-ma 1 Season Drama, Animation, Action & Adventure, Crime Yuuki Shin, Azumi Waki, Ryota Osaka watch on Hulu watch on Hulu One of the more recent shounen anime adaptations, studio LIDENFILMS’ take on Ken Wakui’s Tokyo Revengers is a middle-school-themed gangster series. A grown down-on-his-luck Takemichi Hanagaki struggles in his career and social life, later learning that his girlfriend from middle school — Hinata Tachibana — had been murdered by a vicious local gang.
It seems his life is about to take a dark and abrupt end when he’s accidentally pushed in front of an oncoming train, but shockingly flashes back to his life 12 years ago. From there, Takemichi sets out to course-correct his life and save Hinanta from her future death by joining the ranks of his school’s gang.
Read less Bleach (2004) tv-14 2 Seasons Action & Adventure, Animation, Sci-Fi & Fantasy Masakazu Morita, Fumiko Orikasa, Hiroki Yasumoto watch on Hulu watch on Hulu Studio Pierrot and Tite Kubo’s Bleach aims to conclude the anime adaptation with Thousand-Year Blood War.
 This anime is a long time coming and adapts the final titular story arc of the manga, with vigilante Soul Reaper Ichigo Kurosaki and his friends and allies abruptly confronted by Asguiaro Ebern, who aims to reignite the vitriolic feud between the Soul Society and the ancient Quincy family.
With this, Asguiaro looks to pave the way for Quincy King Ywach to return and lay waste to both the human world and the Soul Society. So far, the first two parts of Bleach: Thousand-Year Blood War have been strongly received for their stylish and action-packed take on Kubo’s source material, with a third on the way in spring 2024.
Read less Hellsing (2001) tv-ma 1 Season Action & Adventure, Animation, Mystery, Sci-Fi & Fantasy Jouji Nakata, Fumiko Orikasa, Yoshiko Sakakibara Umanosuke Iida watch on Hulu watch on Hulu Though the Hellsing Ultimate adaptation that would follow it years later earned stronger critical reception, the 2001 anime is still a worthwhile watch. Animated by studio Gonzo, Hellsing centers around the vampire Alucard as he’s used by his superior, Seras Victoria, from the shadows as a weapon to protect the British Empire from supernatural threats.
An unapologetically gruesome and bombastic series, Hellsing is a wildly fun gothic horror and action-packed anime for fans looking to satisfy a vampiric craving. The only thing that holds it back is how the creative team needed to improvise an ending to the anime, as the manga had yet to finish publication at the time.
Read less Sonny Boy (2021) tv-14 1 Season Animation, Drama, Mystery, Sci-Fi & Fantasy Aoi Ichikawa, Saori Onishi, Aoi Yuki watch on Hulu watch on Hulu Read less The Tatami Time Machine Blues (2022) tv-14 1 Season Animation, Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi & Fantasy Shintaro Asanuma, Maaya Sakamoto, Hiroyuki Yoshino watch on Hulu watch on Hulu Read less ID: INVADED (2020) tv-ma 1 Season Animation, Sci-Fi & Fantasy, Action & Adventure, Mystery, Drama Kenjiro Tsuda, Yoshimasa Hosoya, Mao Ichimichi watch on Hulu watch on Hulu Read less Space Dandy (2014) tv-14 2 Seasons Animation, Comedy, Sci-Fi & Fantasy, Action & Adventure Junichi Suwabe, Uki Satake, Hiroyuki Yoshino watch on Hulu watch on Hulu Read less Zom 100: Bucket List of the Dead (2023) new tv-ma 1 Season Animation, Action & Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi & Fantasy Shuichiro Umeda, Tomori Kusunoki, Makoto Furukawa watch on Hulu watch on Hulu Read less Dragon Ball Z Kai (2009) new tv-14 6 Seasons Sci-Fi & Fantasy, Animation, Action & Adventure, Comedy Masako Nozawa, Joji Yanami, Mayumi Tanaka watch on Hulu watch on Hulu Read less Dragon Quest: The Adventure of Dai (2020) new tv-pg 1 Season Animation, Action & Adventure, Sci-Fi & Fantasy Yuki Kaji, Mikako Komatsu, Toshiyuki Toyonaga watch on Hulu watch on Hulu Read less Inu-Oh (2022) new 99m Animation, Drama, Music Avu-chan, Mirai Moriyama, Tasuku Emoto Masaaki Yuasa watch on Hulu watch on Hulu Directed by Masaaki Yuasa and produced by animation studio Science SARU, Inu-Oh is an inventive historical musical anime. Adapting the novel Tales of the Heike: Inu-Oh by author Hideo Furukawa, this story centers around the friendship between the titular dancer born with unique physical features and a blind musician.
The two characters bond over how 14th-century Japanese society has ostracized them from the world, morphing Inu-Oh into an anime rock opera with elements of magical folklore.
Inu-Oh is one of the most creative and poignant anime movies in recent years and is worth a watch.
Read less Trigun: Badlands Rumble (2011) 91m Action, Animation, Science Fiction, Adventure Masaya Onosaka, Satsuki Yukino, Hiromi Tsuru Satoshi Nishimura watch on Hulu watch on Hulu Trigun Stampede has proven to be an imaginative reboot of Yasuhiro Nightow’s classic manga, but 2010’s Trigun: Badlands Rumble is just as good. Directed by Satoshi Nishimura and once again produced by veteran animation studio Madhouse, Badlands Rumble tells an original story set sometime between episodes 10 and 12 of the ’90s anime adaptation.
Vash the Stampede travels to Macca City and is quickly caught in the crossfire of a massive gang war. Former gang leader Gasback Gallon Getaway returns to get revenge on the crew there that backstabbed him 20 years prior.
Read less Lupin III: The First (2019) 93m Adventure, Action, Animation Kanichi Kurita, Kiyoshi Kobayashi, Miyuki Sawashiro Takashi Yamazaki watch on Hulu watch on Hulu Manga writer Monkey Punch’s Lupin the Third franchise has evolved into an anime mainstay over the decades. It spawned various anime adaptations across film and TV, with director Takashi Yamazaki’s Lupin III: The First being one of the best recent additions to the IP.
Co-produced by animation studios TMS Entertainment and Marza Animation Planet, this movie sees the beloved Gentleman Thief and his colorful band of thieves attempt to secure the coveted Bresson Diary. The crew are attempting to find the diary before it falls into villainous hands aiming to revive the Third Reich.
Read less Made in Abyss: Journey's Dawn (2019) 119m Animation, Adventure, Mystery, Fantasy Miyu Tomita, Mariya Ise, Taishi Murata Masayuki Kojima watch on Hulu watch on Hulu Akihito Tsukushi’s Made in Abyss is one of the best ongoing manga and anime series today. Animation studio Kinema Citrus has done a great job of adapting the series to the screen, and Made in Abyss: Journey’s Dawn is a great new way to watch the anime.
A compilation movie, Journey’s Dawn condenses the first eight episodes of the TV show into a ~2-hour-long movie. This portion of the story follows orphaned and aspiring Cave Raider Riko with her robot friend Reg as they descend into the dangerous titular abyss to uncover its secrets. Along the way, Riko will also learn about her missing mother.
Read less Naruto (2002) tv-pg 4 Seasons Animation, Action & Adventure, Sci-Fi & Fantasy Junko Takeuchi, Noriaki Sugiyama, Chie Nakamura watch on Hulu watch on Hulu Masashi Kishimoto’s Naruto was a mainstream juggernaut for the anime genre as a whole. The series begins with the titular protagonist, who grows up an outcast of the Hidden Leaf Village who is nonetheless determined to fulfill his lofty goals of eventually becoming an elite ninja and the village’s leader.
Filled with fantastical world-building and a wide cast of colorful characters, Naruto is an imaginative and action-packed spin on coming-of-age themes and fantasy worlds influenced by Japanese mythology.
Read less Mobile Suit Gundam 00 (2007) tv-ma 2 Seasons Action & Adventure, Animation, Drama, Sci-Fi & Fantasy, War & Politics Hiroshi Kamiya, Shin-ichiro Miki, Mamoru Miyano Seiji Mizushima watch on Hulu watch on Hulu Japan’s Mobile Suit Gundam franchise remains one of the most enduring anime IPs and media franchises in general. Set within a universe dense with lore and world-building, Mobile Suit Gundam 00 is among the best standalone stories for longtime fans and newcomers alike.
Telling a story with underlying themes, Mobile Suit Gundam 00 follows a paramilitary group determined to end the bloody internal warfare over scraps of usable energy.
Read less Trigun Stampede (2023) tv-14 1 Season Animation, Action & Adventure, Sci-Fi & Fantasy Yoshitsugu Matsuoka, Sakura Ando, Kenji Matsuda watch on Hulu watch on Hulu Veteran studio Madhouse’s original TV anime adaptation of Yasuhiro Nightow’s Trigun is celebrated as a ’90s classic. However, studio Orange has come along with Trigun Stampede as a CG reboot of the original story.
This style of animation is infamously treated with caution in many fandom circles, but this reimagining shows the strides the technology has made. Likewise, it’s made some creative twists for this continuity, like having Meryl Stryfe as an up-and-coming investigative journalist under the mentorship of the original character, Roberto De Niro.
Read less Durarara!! (2010) tv-14 2 Seasons Action & Adventure, Animation, Drama, Mystery Miyuki Sawashiro, Toshiyuki Toyonaga, Mamoru Miyano watch on Hulu watch on Hulu Read less Mobile Suit Gundam: Iron-Blooded Orphans (2015) tv-ma 1 Season Animation, War & Politics, Action & Adventure, Sci-Fi & Fantasy Yoshimasa Hosoya, Kengo Kawanishi, Yuka Terasaki watch on Hulu watch on Hulu Read less Pokémon (1997) tv-y7 25 Seasons Animation, Action & Adventure, Sci-Fi & Fantasy Rica Matsumoto, Ikue Otani Satoshi Tajiri, Junichi Masuda, Ken Sugimori watch on Hulu watch on Hulu Read less Gurren Lagann (2007) new tv-14 1 Season Animation, Action & Adventure, Sci-Fi & Fantasy Marina Inoue, Kiyoyuki Yanada, Michiko Neya watch on Hulu watch on Hulu Read less Psycho-Pass (2012) new tv-ma 3 Seasons Sci-Fi & Fantasy, Animation, Action & Adventure Yuki Kaji, Kana Hanazawa, Yuichi Nakamura watch on Hulu watch on Hulu Read less Dragon Ball (1986) new tv-pg 1 Season Animation, Action & Adventure, Sci-Fi & Fantasy Masako Nozawa, Mayumi Tanaka, Hiromi Tsuru watch on Hulu watch on Hulu Read less Kill la Kill (2013) new tv-ma 1 Season Action & Adventure, Animation, Comedy, Sci-Fi & Fantasy Ryoka Yuzuki, Ami Koshimizu, Aya Suzaki watch on Hulu watch on Hulu Read less My Hero Academia (2016) tv-14 6 Seasons Action & Adventure, Animation Daiki Yamashita, Nobuhiko Okamoto, Kenta Miyake watch on Hulu watch on Hulu Read less Chainsaw Man (2022) tv-ma 1 Season Animation, Action & Adventure, Sci-Fi & Fantasy Kikunosuke Toya, Tomori Kusunoki, Shogo Sakata Read less Mob Psycho 100 (2016) tv-14 3 Seasons Animation, Action & Adventure, Comedy Setsuo Ito, Takahiro Sakurai, Miyu Irino watch on Hulu watch on Hulu Read less Hunter x Hunter (2011) tv-14 3 Seasons Action & Adventure, Animation, Drama Megumi Han, Mariya Ise, Miyuki Sawashiro watch on Hulu watch on Hulu Read less Hellsing Ultimate (2006) tv-ma 1 Season Animation, Drama, Sci-Fi & Fantasy Jouji Nakata, Fumiko Orikasa, Yoshiko Sakakibara watch on Hulu watch on Hulu Read less Dragon Ball Super (2015) tv-14 1 Season Animation, Action & Adventure, Sci-Fi & Fantasy Masako Nozawa, Ryou Horikawa, Hiromi Tsuru Akira Toriyama watch on Hulu watch on Hulu Read less Dragon Ball Super: Broly (2018) 101m Action, Science Fiction, Animation Masako Nozawa, Aya Hisakawa, Ryou Horikawa Tatsuya Nagamine watch on Hulu watch on Hulu Read less Mushi-shi (2005) tv-14 2 Seasons Animation, Drama, Sci-Fi & Fantasy Yuji Ueda, Daisuke Kishio, Mika Doi watch on Hulu watch on Hulu Read less Akira (1988) 124m Animation, Science Fiction, Action Mitsuo Iwata, Nozomu Sasaki, Mami Koyama Katsuhiro Otomo watch on Hulu watch on Hulu Read less Steins;Gate (2011) tv-14 1 Season Sci-Fi & Fantasy, Action & Adventure, Animation, Mystery, Comedy, Drama Kana Hanazawa, Mamoru Miyano, Yu Kobayashi watch on Hulu watch on Hulu Read less Attack on Titan (2013) tv-ma 4 Seasons Sci-Fi & Fantasy, Animation, Action & Adventure Yuki Kaji, Yui Ishikawa, Marina Inoue watch on Hulu watch on Hulu Read less Parasyte -the maxim- (2014) tv-ma 1 Season Animation, Drama, Sci-Fi & Fantasy, Action & Adventure Nobunaga Shimazaki, Aya Hirano, Kana Hanazawa Shōji Yonemura watch on Hulu watch on Hulu Read less Black Lagoon (2006) tv-ma 2 Seasons Action & Adventure, Animation, Drama, Crime Hiroaki Hirata, Tsutomu Isobe, Megumi Toyoguchi Sunao Katabuchi watch on Hulu watch on Hulu Read less Best anime on Netflix Best shows on Amazon Prime Best shows on Hulu Best shows on HBO Best shows on Netflix Demon Slayer: Kimetsu no Yaiba (2019) tv-ma 3 Seasons Animation, Action & Adventure, Sci-Fi & Fantasy Natsuki Hanae, Akari Kito, Hiro Shimono Ufotable watch on Hulu watch on Hulu Read less MEGALOBOX (2018) tv-ma 2 Seasons Animation, Action & Adventure, Drama Yoshimasa Hosoya, Hiroki Yasumoto, Michiyo Murase Katsuhiko Manabe, Kensaku Kojima watch on Hulu watch on Hulu Read less Yu Yu Hakusho (1992) tv-pg 4 Seasons Animation, Action & Adventure, Sci-Fi & Fantasy Nozomu Sasaki, Shigeru Chiba, Megumi Ogata Studio Pierrot watch on Hulu watch on Hulu Read less Fullmetal Alchemist: Brotherhood (2009) tv-14 1 Season Action & Adventure, Animation, Sci-Fi & Fantasy Romi Park, Rie Kugimiya, Shin-ichiro Miki Hiroshi Ōnogi watch on Hulu watch on Hulu Read less One Piece (1999) tv-14 11 Seasons Action & Adventure, Comedy, Animation Mayumi Tanaka, Kazuya Nakai, Akemi Okamura Junki Takegami watch on Hulu watch on Hulu Read less JoJo's Bizarre Adventure (2012) tv-ma 5 Seasons Animation, Action & Adventure, Sci-Fi & Fantasy Kensho Ono, Kohsuke Toriumi, Junya Enoki Hirohiko Araki watch on Hulu watch on Hulu Read less Cowboy Bebop (1998) tv-14 1 Season Action & Adventure, Animation, Crime, Drama, Sci-Fi & Fantasy Koichi Yamadera, Unsho Ishizuka, Megumi Hayashibara Hajime Yatate watch on Hulu watch on Hulu Read less One-Punch Man (2015) tv-pg 2 Seasons Action & Adventure, Animation, Comedy Kazuhiro Yamaji, Yuichi Nakamura, Kenjiro Tsuda ONE watch on Hulu watch on Hulu Read less Death Note (2006) tv-14 1 Season Animation, Mystery Mamoru Miyano, Noriko Hidaka, Nozomu Sasaki Tsugumi Ohba, Takeshi Obata watch on Hulu watch on Hulu Read less TRIGUN (1998) tv-14 1 Season Sci-Fi & Fantasy, Action & Adventure, Animation Masaya Onosaka, Hiromi Tsuru, Satsuki Yukino Yasuhiro Nightow watch on Hulu watch on Hulu Read less Samurai Champloo (2004) tv-ma 1 Season Action & Adventure, Animation, Comedy, Drama Kazuya Nakai, Ginpei Sato, Steve Blum, Kirk Thornton Manglobef watch on Hulu watch on Hulu Read less Editors' Recommendations The best new shows to stream on Netflix, Hulu, Max (HBO), and more The 50 best shows on Netflix in November 2023 The best movies and shows on Shudder right now (November 2023) The 10 most popular movies on Netflix right now The best feel-good movies on Netflix right now Best Products Hulu Streaming Guides Streaming Services Movie images and data from: Entertainment It's not hard to find a great comedy movie on Netflix. Unlike some other genres like sci-fi and fantasy, Netflix keeps its lineup of comedies well-stocked with some recent box-office hits, like Jennifer Lawrence's No Hard Feelings, as well as classic titles on loan from other studios and a lot of original films. This month's new additions include the first theatrical adaptation of The Addams Family, The Big Lebowski, and Scott Pilgrim vs. the World. It's pretty hard to go wrong with those flicks.
Comedies come and go, which is why it's important to stay glued to what's new on Netflix. If you're looking for laughs, these are the best comedies on Netflix right now.
Entertainment You're going to see a lot of Christmas movies on Hulu through the end of the year. 'Tis the season for the Huludays, after all. While we'll go over your Christmas options at a later date, this month's selections of the best movies on Hulu feature a new original film, Quiz Lady, as well as A Haunting in Venice, which recently finished its theatrical run. The other prominent new additions are Jumanji: Welcome to the Jungle and the comedy biopic Driven.
Need help keeping up with everything new on Hulu? Every month, we go over the greatest films that Hulu has to offer while keeping track of what's coming and going. That's why our update of the best movies on Hulu is always current. We're here to help you plan your next movie night.
Entertainment Michael Fassbender in The Killer Netflix / Netflix Halloween is gone, Christmas movies are coming around the corner, but the best new movies to stream on Netflix, Hulu, Prime Video, Max (HBO), and other services haven't fully made the switch to Christmas. There are some high-quality additions each week, though, including some Oscar bait. We're keeping track of all of it in this weekly roundup, so you always have something new to watch.
We also have guides to the best movies on Netflix, the best movies on Hulu, the best movies on Amazon Prime Video, and the best movies on HBO.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
