Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix F1 Live Stream Stranger Things Season 5 Best New Movies Most Popular Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney+ UFC Live Stream Best Movies on Disney+ Home Entertainment Guides Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? 5 best death game movies you should watch right now By Saab Hannah Close In the realm of the greatest thriller and horror movies is a subgenre that has grown in popularity over the years – the “death game” films. These are brutal and often disturbing works that thrust characters into ruthless games of survival, with only the most cunning, creative, or desperate players coming out alive. There are some standouts from the niche that are critically acclaimed thanks to their uniqueness, complexity, or bold genre-defining concepts that would go on to shape and influence modern death game movies.
Ready or Not (2019) Cube (1997) The Hunger Games (2012) Saw (2004) Battle Royale (2000) From controversial classics like Battle Royale to beloved blockbusters like The Hunger Games , the best death game movies depict violent battles bound by twisted sets of rules that ensure there will be bloodshed. These adrenaline-pumping films can get viewers invested in the characters’ fates and lives, which are inevitably cut short when the games begin.
Ready or Not (2019) Fox Searchlight Pictures Ready or Not is a one-of-a-kind death game movie because it only features one player – Grace ( Scream VI ‘s Samara Weaving) – who goes against her soon-to-be husband’s entire family. Directed by Matt Bettinelli-Olpin and Tyler Gillett, the film depicts Grace’s unfortunate wedding night after she participates in a seemingly innocent family tradition. She draws a game card from a puzzle box, revealing that she has picked “Hide-and-Seek,” which soon leads to her being hunted by every single member of the family.
3 movies leaving Peacock in November you have to watch The 10 best characters in the Hunger Games movies, ranked 5 great comedies from the past 5 years you should watch right now Aside from featuring one of the best final girls in horror , Ready or Not is a unique entry in the subgenre because of its use of black comedy. As family members suffer horrific injuries while trying and failing to catch Grace, there are numerous comical scenes that will have audiences laughing at the most inappropriate moments. As if all that wasn’t enough, the 2019 film is also a comedic commentary on excessive wealth, with Grace’s iconic line perfectly summing up her experience as a victim of the death game: “F**king rich people.” Ready or Not is streaming on Fubo TV.
Cube (1997) Cube Libre When a group of strangers wakes up in bizarre Kafkaesque cube-like rooms, they have no idea what horrors are about to unfold.
1997’s sci-fi horror classic Cube portrays the prisoners’ gruesome experiences as they learn that some rooms have lethal traps. They eventually learn that they must use their skills and work together to somehow get out of the deadly maze alive.
Director Vincenzo Natali’s indie film is a cult classic that was once overlooked in the death game subgenre. It has since gained more attention from audiences and critics alike for its invaluable role in defining the niche and influencing modern and more successful counterparts like Saw.
 While Cube suffers from weak dialogue and questionable pacing, its groundbreaking set pieces, creative traps, and tense atmosphere undoubtedly helped shape the subgenre that fans know and love today. Anyone who enjoys most death game movies may want to check out the film that started it all.
Cube can be streamed on Tubi.
The Hunger Games (2012) Lionsgate Directed by Gary Ross based on Suzanne Collins’s eponymous 2008 novel, The Hunger Games is a massively popular dystopian movie that would start a thriving franchise. Starring Jennifer Lawrence in one of her biggest roles , the film takes place in a future where the Capitol of Panem forces representatives from its 12 districts to compete in the Hunger Games. The televised event has its participants fight to the death, with the final survivor hailed as the winner. When the District 12 Tribute Katniss Everdeen (Lawrence) joins the game, it changes her destiny and Panem’s future.
The Hunger Games became a cultural phenomenon when it first premiered in 2012, attracting not just readers, but new fans who would continue to support its three sequels. With a fourth one, The Ballad of Songbirds & Snakes , now showing in theaters, it’s easy to see just how successful the franchise has become. It’s the perfect time to revisit the first movie, which has aged surprisingly well. With its emotional story tinged with political commentary and its spell-binding soundtrack featuring award-winning songs like Safe & Sound , there are plenty of reasons why The Hunger Games has earned its spot alongside the greats of the genre.
The Hunger Games is streaming on Peacock.
Saw (2004) Lionsgate Saw is a horror movie that needs no introduction. The film is the first entry in an enduring franchise that recently terrified fans with Saw X.
 The first Saw movie is also James Wan’s impressive directorial debut, hinting at his future catalog of legendary horror franchises like Insidious and The Conjuring.
 It all begins with the spine-chilling introduction of Jigsaw, a merciless serial killer who informs his latest victims, Adam Stanheight (Leigh Whannell) and Lawrence Gordon (Cary Elwes), that they must complete his sick game if one of them hopes to survive.
The low-budget film made headlines for its disturbing premise and abundance of blood and gore. Before long, Jigsaw’s death games would have a global fanbase that’s still growing today. While the franchise has come a long way from its first entry, the original Saw movie is still worth rewatching thanks to its straightforward execution of the concept and depiction of some of the best traps and impressive set pieces.
Saw is streaming on Hulu.
Battle Royale (2000) Toei Company Battle Royale is a controversial Japanese cult classic film based on a similarly contentious novel by Koushun Takami. The death game movie was director Kinji Fukasaku’s final and most influential film, as 2000’s Battle Royale redefined what the term meant and is credited with the creation of the booming battle royale genre. It focused on a group of 9th graders who are sent to kill each other on a deserted island. With explosive collars around their neck and a rule that states there must only be one survivor, they have no choice but to murder their fellow students to survive the game.
The film was banned in several countries due to its portrayal of shockingly young characters and the excessive violence they use to stay alive. Combining melodrama, youth violence, and wild mayhem, Battle Royale aims not just to startle and entertain, but also to point out moral conflicts through its provocative brutality. Most death game movies that followed Fukasaku’s masterpiece would inevitably be compared to the Japanese film, which still enjoys its reputation as a pioneer of the subgenre.
Battle Royale is streaming on Freevee.
Editors' Recommendations 3 movies and TV shows like the hit Max series Julia you should watch right now 5 bad 2000s action movies that you still need to watch right now The best Black movies on Netflix right now 5 movies like Netflix’s The Killer you should watch right now 3 Netflix comedies like Bill Burr’s Old Dads you should watch right now Sci-Fi Entertainment If you're looking to cut back on streaming service expenditures, take solace in the fact that the best free movies on YouTube right now are still worth your time. Yes, believe it or not, YouTube has an extensive library of ad-supported free movies and TV shows for all. It's not a spectacular collection, and it's changing all the time, but there are plenty of quality entries. We keep this list up to date every month so you can stop scrolling and start watching.
Looking for more stuff you can watch for free? Check out our guides to the best free shows on YouTube and the best sites for watching free movies online.
Ghostbusters (1984) new Entertainment In the aftermath of his death, many people have looked back on Friends' star Matthew Perry's entire career to find ways to appreciate what he brought to all of his various projects.
While most people agree that Perry was never able to fully replicate the enormous success he had with Friends, he was undeniably a captivating screen presence, and there is a huge array of other TV and movie projects that highlight his skills as an actor and comedian. His death was an undeniable tragedy, but Perry left us with plenty of great examples of just how brilliant he could be on-screen.
17 Again (2009) 17 Again (2009) Official Trailer - Zac Efron, Matthew Perry Movie HD Entertainment Over the past 25 years, Reese Witherspoon has become one of the great movie stars of her generation. Since first emerging on the scene in a series of comedies, Witherspoon has definitively proven that she can be funny and dramatic in equal measure, and she's created a number of indelible roles over the course of her decades of stardom.
Few actresses are more versatile or charming than she continues to be to this day, and these are the five movies you should start with if you're looking to catch her best work.
Walk the Line (2005) Walk The Line | #TBT Trailer | 20th Century FOX Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
