Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix F1 Live Stream Stranger Things Season 5 Best New Movies Most Popular Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney+ UFC Live Stream Best Movies on Disney+ Home Entertainment Guides The best Hulu original series right now By Nick Perry , Blair Marnell and Christine Persaud Close There are always exciting new original series coming out on Hulu across every genre. Hulu offers tons of library content too, but the original shows really add value to the streaming service. Think shows like The Handmaid’s Tale, Only Murders in the Building, and Ramy.
The momentum continues as Hulu has released more new content toward the end of 2023, with additional shows planned into 2024 as well.
As for what to watch now, the best Hulu original series includes some old favorites, as well as new shows that have just been released or are coming soon. Plus, you can currently save with the Disney Bundle , which makes Hulu an even better deal by including not only Hulu, but also Disney+ and ESPN+, for just $14 a month.
Looking for more originals? Check out our lists of the best Amazon original series and the best Netflix original series , as well as the best shows on Hulu.
Save on everything from laptops and tablets, to coffee makers and air purifiers, and a whole host of Apple tech like iPad, Apple Watch and even the latest M3 MacBooks, as well as smart home essentials like the Amazon Echo and smart bulbs.
Faraway Downs 2023 A Murder at the End of the World tv-ma 2023 The Other Black Girl tv-ma 2023 Shoresy tv-ma 2022 Faraway Downs (2023) new 1 Season Action & Adventure, Drama Nicole Kidman, Hugh Jackman, Brandon Walters Baz Luhrmann watch on Hulu watch on Hulu Nicole Kidman and Hugh Jackman ( Deadpool 3 ) are leads in this series about Lady Sarah Ashley (Kidman), an English aristocrat who, following the death of her husband, must find a way to protect a million-acre cattle reach she owns in the Australian Outback. She enlists the help of a cattle drover (Jackman) to help her fend off an Australian cattle baron looking to take over the land.
Offering up both adventure and romance, Faraway Downs is told from the perspective of Nullah (Brandon Walters), a young biracial Indigenous Australian child dealing with his own racial struggles. If you’re a fan of Yellowstone and its many spinoffs, Faraway Downs might be a good next option to add to your list.
Read less A Murder at the End of the World (2023) new tv-ma 1 Season Mystery, Drama Emma Corrin, Clive Owen, Harris Dickinson Brit Marling, Zal Batmanglij watch on Hulu watch on Hulu The murder mystery genre is enjoying a resurgence of late, and A Murder at the End of the World is an exciting entry to the mix. Technically created for FX, but streaming exclusively on Hulu, the series is co-created by The OA creator and co-star Brit Marling. The psychological thriller stars The Crown’s Emma Corrin as Darby, one of many individuals invited to a reclusive billionaire’s remote home. It’s a retreat, but when one of the guests winds up dead, Darby must use her amateur sleuthing skills to find out who the killer is — and make sure she isn’t next.
Like other entries in the genre, A Murder at the End of the World has an ensemble cast that also includes Clive Owen, Alice Braga, Jermaine Fowler, and Marling herself. If you’re a fan of The OA and its offbeat style, as well as murder mystery brain teasers, this is the show for you.
Read less The Other Black Girl (2023) new tv-ma 1 Season Drama, Comedy Sinclair Daniel, Ashleigh Murray, Brittany Adebumola Rashida Jones, Zakiya Dalila Harris watch on Hulu watch on Hulu Co-developed by Rashida Jones, The Other Black Girl is about Nella (Sinclair Daniel), the only Black woman working at a publishing house in New York City. That is, until another Black woman is hired. But as soon as Hazel-May (Ashleigh Murray) joins the team, strange things begin to happen, revealing unfortunate truths about the company.
Based on the Zakiya Dalila Harris novel of the same name, the comedy-drama mystery thriller is inspired by Harris’ own experience working as an editor. Designed to be entertaining and thrilling, The Other Black Girl also explores the idea of racism in the corporate world. The series has been lauded for delivering smart social commentary while also keeping the theme lighthearted, twisty, and fun.
Read less Shoresy (2022) new tv-ma 2 Seasons Comedy, Drama Jared Keeso, Harlan Blayne Kytwayhat Jared Keeso watch on Hulu watch on Hulu Shoresy isn’t technically a Hulu original, but the Canadian series, which is offered through the Bell-owned Crave streaming service north of the border, was acquired by Hulu for exclusive streaming rights in the U.S. A spinoff of the series Letterkenny about a group of stereotypical small-town residents in Ontario, Canada, Shoresy focuses on the title character (played by creator Jared Keeso) as he makes a big move to Sudbury, Ontario. He has big dreams for his Triple A-level ice hockey team and bets the manager of the flailing team that he can take them to the top.
A feel-good, hilarious comedy, Shoresy is a must-watch for fans of Letterkenny.
 The immature humor is a perfect escape, and though there’s plenty of Canadian-specific terminology and jokes, the show has struck a chord with American viewers, too.
Read less Solar Opposites (2020) tv-ma 4 Seasons Comedy, Animation, Sci-Fi & Fantasy Justin Roiland, Sean Giambrone, Thomas Middleditch Justin Roiland, Mike McMahan watch on Hulu watch on Hulu From the creators of Rick and Morty , Solar Opposites is a hilarious animated dive into the life of a family of aliens living in middle America and observing human behavior. It’s all about perspective, and while some think the way people tend to behave is awesome, others find it deplorable. In a separate storyline, fans also learn about the Yumyulack who has shrunken humans and stored them in a terrarium called The Wall.
You’ll recognize familiar voices like Silicon Valley ’s Thomas Middleditch as Terry and The Goldbergs ’ Sean Giambrone as Yumyulack. The sci-fi animated sitcom has been praised for being charming, hilarious, sincere, and offering a ridiculous yet also fresh take on humanity and our habits.
Read less Dragons: The Nine Realms (2021) tv-y7 7 Seasons Animation, Action & Adventure Jeremy Shada, Ashley Liao, Aimee Garcia Henry Gilroy watch on Hulu watch on Hulu With a solid seven seasons under its belt, Dragons: The Nine Realms is a joint production with Peacock. The animated series takes place 1,300 years after the events portrayed in the movie How To Train Your Dragon.
 With dragons merely legends from a past life, a fissure in the Earth’s surface reveals that dragons are not only real but have been hiding away all this time.
The kids who make this discovery have to keep the secret to protect the precious creatures. Produced under DreamWorks Animation, Dragons: The Nine Realms also spawned a video game of the same name.
Read less The Bear (2022) tv-ma 2 Seasons Drama Jeremy Allen White, Ebon Moss-Bachrach, Ayo Edebiri Christopher Storer watch on Hulu watch on Hulu Read less Only Murders in the Building (2021) tv-ma 3 Seasons Comedy, Crime, Mystery Steve Martin, Martin Short, Selena Gomez Steve Martin, John Robert Hoffman watch on Hulu watch on Hulu Read less Letterkenny (2016) tv-ma 11 Seasons Comedy Jared Keeso, Nathan Dales, Michelle Mylett Jared Keeso watch on Hulu watch on Hulu Read less Reservation Dogs (2021) tv-ma 3 Seasons Drama, Comedy, Crime Devery Jacobs, D'Pharaoh Woon-A-Tai, Paulina Jewel Alexis Taika Waititi, Sterlin Harjo watch on Hulu watch on Hulu Read less This Fool (2022) tv-ma 2 Seasons Comedy watch on Hulu watch on Hulu With positive reviews all around, This Fool is the perfect show to watch if you need a good laugh. The story is about Julio (Chris Estrada), a 30-something-year-old young man who is still living at home with his mother and grandmother. He finds his work at the Hugs Not Thugs gang rehabilitation center rewarding, especially since one of his program members is his older cousin Luis (Frankie Quinones), who was recently released from prison after serving an eight-year sentence.
A show that’s deeply rooted in Latin culture, though relatable to any immigrant family story, This Fool follows Julio journey through life, dealing with personal hardships and a difficult family. But at its heart, This Fool also demonstrates how people with opposing views on life can come together, and maybe even learn a thing or two from one another. Adding to its authenticity is that the fact that This Fool was created by Estrada and is loosely based on his own life.
Read less Tiny Beautiful Things (2023) tv-ma 1 Season Comedy, Drama Kathryn Hahn, Sarah Pidgeon, Quentin Plair Liz Tigelaar watch on Hulu watch on Hulu Based on the book of the same name by Cheryl Strayed, which itself is based on Strayed’s own story, Tiny Beautiful Things is a comedy drama but it has been called compelling, dark, and “emotionally vivid.” The show stars Kathryn Hahn as Clare, a writer who becomes a popular advice columnist, despite her own personal life falling apart.
About to turn 50, Clare is dealing with marital issues, troubles with her teenage daughter, and fears about the future and missed opportunities. Somehow, she’s able to channel those frustrations into delivering sweet, kind, and helpful advice to readers who come to rely on her insight. Be prepared to shed a tear or two and maybe feel a bit cathartic while you watch.
Read less UnPrisoned (2023) tv-ma 1 Season Comedy Kerry Washington, Delroy Lindo, Marque Richardson Tracy McMillan watch on Hulu watch on Hulu Paige’s (Kerry Washington) life is going fairly well as a single mother and marriage therapist. But when her estranged father Edwin (Delroy Lindo) is released from prison after 17 years and comes to live with her and her son, Paige’s entire life becomes upended.
A heartwarming comedy, Unprisoned has been positively received by critics and viewers, alike, for being heartfelt and tackling tough subject matter with a healthy dose of comedy. Both Washington and Lindo are praised for their genuine and wonderful performances, and the show itself for providing an intimate look into the Black experience.
Read less The Great (2020) tv-ma 3 Seasons Drama, Comedy Elle Fanning, Nicholas Hoult, Phoebe Fox Tony McNamara watch on Hulu watch on Hulu Everybody’s heard of Catherine the Great, the Russian Empress who presided over one of imperial Russia’s greatest periods of prosperity. But not so many know about her husband and second cousin, Peter III, who was so incompetent that she overthrew him in a practically bloodless coup d’état.
History is dramatic and tragic, but it’s also comical, and The Great finds wicked pleasure in pitting Elle Fanning’s cunning and witty Catherine against Nicholas Hoult’s dull, naïve Peter. Catherine’s rise is, of course, inevitable, but it’s a lot of fun to watch play out in this satirical drama.
Read less DAVE (2020) tv-ma 3 Seasons Comedy Dave Burd, Taylor Misiak, Andrew Santino Jeff Schaffer, Lil Dicky watch on Hulu watch on Hulu Rapper/comedian Lil Dicky became internet famous after releasing his song “Ex-Boyfriend” on YouTube back in 2013, then released his debut rap album, Professional Rapper , in 2015. He went on to collaborate with the likes of Ariana Grande, Justin Bieber, and Wiz Khalifa. In 2020, Dicky, real name David Andrew Burd, worked with producer Jeff Schaffer to create a comedy series based on his life, and, as it turns out, the talented rapper is a talented comedian, too.
Burd stars in the series as a fictionalized version of himself, a neurotic young man living in a small suburban town who believes he can make it big in the rap game. GaTa, Burd’s real-life hype man, plays himself on the show, including depicting his real-life battle with bipolar disorder.
Critic reviews for the first season applaud the “juvenile sense of humor” for those who appreciate those types of jokes. It’s a refreshing and fun show with a laundry list of A-list guest stars, not to mention Kevin Hart counted among its executive producers.
Read less Welcome to Chippendales (2022) tv-ma 1 Season Drama, Crime, Comedy Kumail Nanjiani, Murray Bartlett, Annaleigh Ashford watch on Hulu watch on Hulu Read less Under the Banner of Heaven (2022) tv-ma 1 Season Crime, Drama, Mystery Andrew Garfield, Daisy Edgar-Jones, Sam Worthington Dustin Lance Black watch on Hulu watch on Hulu Read less Candy (2022) tv-ma 1 Season Crime Jessica Biel, Melanie Lynskey, Timothy Simons Nick Antosca, Robin Veith watch on Hulu watch on Hulu Read less The Girl From Plainville (2022) tv-ma 1 Season Drama, Crime Elle Fanning, Chloë Sevigny, Colton Ryan Patrick Macmanus, Liz Hannah watch on Hulu watch on Hulu Read less The Dropout (2022) tv-ma 1 Season Drama Amanda Seyfried, Naveen Andrews, Utkarsh Ambudkar watch on Hulu watch on Hulu Read less Pam & Tommy (2022) tv-ma 1 Season Comedy, Drama Lily James, Sebastian Stan, Seth Rogen watch on Hulu watch on Hulu Read less PEN15 (2019) tv-ma 2 Seasons Comedy Maya Erskine, Anna Konkle, Mutsuko Erskine Maya Erskine, Anna Konkle, Sam Zvibleman watch on Hulu watch on Hulu Read less Dopesick (2021) tv-ma 1 Season Drama Michael Keaton, Peter Sarsgaard, Michael Stuhlbarg Danny Strong watch on Hulu watch on Hulu Read less American Horror Stories (2021) tv-ma 1 Season Drama, Mystery, Sci-Fi & Fantasy Ryan Murphy, Brad Falchuk watch on Hulu watch on Hulu Read less Devs (2020) tv-ma 1 Season Sci-Fi & Fantasy, Drama, Mystery Sonoya Mizuno, Nick Offerman, Alison Pill Alex Garland watch on Hulu watch on Hulu Read less Love, Victor (2020) tv-14 2 Seasons Comedy, Drama Michael Cimino, Rachel Hilson, Anthony Turpel Isaac Aptaker, Elizabeth Berger watch on Hulu watch on Hulu Read less The Looming Tower (2018) tv-ma 1 Season War & Politics, Drama Jeff Daniels, Tahar Rahim, Peter Sarsgaard Dan Futterman, Lawrence Wright, Alex Gibney watch on Hulu watch on Hulu Read less UnREAL (2015) tv-14 4 Seasons Drama, Comedy Shiri Appleby, Constance Zimmer, Jeffrey Bowyer-Chapman Marti Noxon, Sarah Gertrude Shapiro watch on Hulu watch on Hulu Read less The Handmaid's Tale (2017) tv-ma 6 Seasons Sci-Fi & Fantasy, Drama Elisabeth Moss, Yvonne Strahovski, Joseph Fiennes Bruce Miller watch on Hulu watch on Hulu Read less Normal People (2020) tv-ma 1 Season Drama Daisy Edgar-Jones, Paul Mescal watch on Hulu watch on Hulu Read less Little Fires Everywhere (2020) tv-ma 1 Season Drama Reese Witherspoon, Kerry Washington, Megan Stott Liz Tigelaar watch on Hulu watch on Hulu Read less Mrs. America (2020) tv-ma 1 Season Drama Cate Blanchett, Rose Byrne, Uzo Aduba Dahvi Waller watch on Hulu watch on Hulu Read less Ramy (2019) tv-ma 2 Seasons Comedy, Drama Ramy Youssef, May Calamawy, Hiam Abbass Ramy Youssef, Ari Katcher, Ryan Welch watch on Hulu watch on Hulu Read less Editors' Recommendations The best movies and shows on Shudder right now (November 2023) The best Black movies on Netflix right now The best feel-good movies on Netflix right now The best movies on Hulu right now (November 2023) Best new movies to stream on Netflix, Hulu, Prime Video, Max (HBO), and more Best Products Hulu Streaming Guides Streaming Services Movie images and data from: Entertainment When you need to keep the kids occupied for a while, it's helpful to know the best kids movies on Netflix right now.
Netflix has an enormous library of kid-friendly content, including a host of original choose-your-own-adventure stories, but it's natural as a parent to want to know what your kids is watching. So, to help you find something quickly, we keep tabs on the collection every month and surface the best options here.
Entertainment There's nothing better than a long holiday weekend to catch up on your favorite films on Netflix. This weekend has a particularly strong lineup that includes the streaming debut of David Fincher's The Killer, which was briefly in theaters last month. Additionally, the horror title, Insidious: The Red Door, has some post-Halloween scares, while Spider-Man: Across the Spider-Verse remains one of the best options for movie lovers of all ages.
Want to stay on top of everything new on Netflix? Every week on Friday, we go over the newly available films to update our list of the best movies on Netflix right now.
Entertainment First, the good news: the actors' strike is over. The bad news is that a combined six-plus months of strikes in Hollywood means there's bound to be a slowdown in new shows in 2024. But since we're still living in 2023 for the next month-and-a-half, we've still got plenty of fresh scripted content to enjoy. This week, we're throwing the spotlight on Apple TV+'s signature series, For All Mankind, Max's Rap Sh!t, and Netflix's Blue Eye Samurai, an anime show that seems to be on the verge of becoming a crossover hit.
Netflix, Amazon Prime Video, Hulu, Max, Apple TV+, Disney+, Paramount+, and Peacock have spent a lot of money keeping us in fresh new shows week after week. Unfortunately, that's why most of those streaming services are hiking their rates. That's why we suggest going with the ad-supported tiers. In the meantime, keep reading for our weekly roundup of the best new shows to stream.
When you're done here, check out the best new movies to stream this week, as well as the best shows on Netflix, best shows on Hulu, best shows on Amazon Prime Video, and best shows on Disney+.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
