Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix F1 Live Stream Stranger Things Season 5 Best New Movies Most Popular Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney+ UFC Live Stream Best Movies on Disney+ Home Entertainment Guides The best movies and shows on Shudder right now (November 2023) By Michael Bizzaco Close Even though Halloween 2023 is but a memory now, that doesn’t mean the spooky chills and thrills need to end in November. In fact, if you’re looking to keep the horror films going throughout the rest of the year and into 2024, you should look no further than a $7 monthly subscription to Shudder.
 Owned and operated by AMC Networks, Shudder is home to a mighty trove of horror films and shows from all eras, on top of its own original content.
There are literally thousands of titles to sift through on Shudder, which is why we’ve put together this list of the latest and greatest content you’ll be able to enjoy. We do our best to highlight both new and exciting releases, as well as fan favorites and genre classics. So without further ado, here are all the best movies and shows on Shudder for the end of fall.
Seeking more scares? Turn up the chills with our guides to the best horror movies on Netflix , the best horror movies on Hulu , and the best horror movies on Amazon Prime.
The 50 best shows on Netflix in November 2023 The 50 best anime on Hulu right now The 10 most popular movies on Netflix right now When Evil Lurks (2023) r 99m Horror, Thriller Ezequiel Rodríguez, Demián Salomón, Silvina Sabater Demián Rugna watch on Shudder watch on Shudder Once in a blue moon, a horror film comes along that delivers big on everything we expect from the genre. This honoring of tropes is best served alongside an original spin on the conventions we expect, and the latest film to knock all of these criteria out of the park is When Evil Lurks.
 Written and directed by Demián Rugna, our story follows brothers Pedro (Ezequiel Rodriguez) and Jamie (Demián Solomon), two siblings forced to contend with a world overrun by demons. When one possesses a human, the resulting mutation is called a “rotten.” When a demon leaves traces of itself on Pedro and Jamie, it’s only a matter of time before they fall victim to the hellish unborn. Unbelievably shocking and gory to the max, When Evil Lurks is an unsettling reminder of just how bold the horror genre can be.
Read less V/H/S/94 (2021) 103m Horror, Thriller Anna Hopkins, Kyal Legend, Christian Lloyd Simon Barrett, Timo Tjahjanto, Steven Kostanski, Jennifer Reeder, Chloe Okuno, Ryan Prows watch on Shudder watch on Shudder We’re absolute suckers for the V/H/S franchise, and as far as elevated storytelling goes, V/H/S 94 might take home the gold for pure horror-driven anarchy. Made up of five shorts and one overarching tale of a SWAT team that raids a death cult-occupied warehouse, amongst the many bodies of the heretics is a collection of VHS tapes.
When the operatives play back the footage, we as the audience get to watch whatever terrible things are contained in the video. The fourth entry in the long-standing V/H/S franchise, the blood and gore may not be for everyone, but if you like your genre cinema served up cheap and ridiculous, we guarantee you’ll enjoy the feast.
Read less Sharknado (2013) 86m Horror, Action, Comedy, Science Fiction, Adventure Ian Ziering, Tara Reid, John Heard Anthony C. Ferrante watch on Shudder watch on Shudder It may not be the kind of movie that swept the Oscars, but when it comes to good ole’ fashioned B-movie madness, it doesn’t get much better than this off-the-wall disaster flick. When a freak waterspout from an oncoming hurricane sucks up the titular aquatic monsters from the ocean and drops the predatory fish over Los Angeles, all hell breaks loose … of course.
As the storm surge floods the metropolis with seawater, a rag-tag group of citizens, led by former surfer Fin Shephard (Ian Ziering), is forced to navigate the shark-infested deluge in order to save themselves, as well as Fin’s ex-wife April (Tara Reid) and teenage daughter Claudia (Aubrey Peeples). Imagine if Jaws was made for TV, included more than one shark, a tornado, and featured enough CGI to brick your MacBook. Yeah, that would be a completely different movie, and its name would be Sharknado.
Read less Dark August (1976) r 87m Horror, Mystery Kim Hunter, J.J. Barry, Carolyne Barry Martin G. Goldman watch on Shudder watch on Shudder If demons, hexes, and ultra-low-budget filmmaking are three things you enjoy, consider Dark August.
 Directed by Martin Goldman, the film stars J.J. Barry as Sal Devito, an artist who relocates to a rural town in Vermont. It turns out Sal’s been trying to gain some distance from a tragic car accident that took the life of a young girl, but his past is hot on his trail. The girl’s grandfather just so happens to be into black magic and decides to curse Sal in an effort to avenge his granddaughter.
When a dark entity starts following Sal around town, he turns to a local psychic to help him combat the ever-lurking evil that won’t let him be. Not many will have heard of Dark August , but as part of Shudder’s incredible “Locals Only” curation, this shoestring creeper is extremely unsettling, and the dizzying camerawork and unusual synth score help the film to push the envelope even further.
Read less The Mansion of Madness (1973) r 99m Horror, Comedy Claudio Brook, Arthur Hansel, Ellen Sherman Juan López Moctezuma watch on Shudder watch on Shudder A loose adaption of Edgar Allan Poe’s The System of Doctor Tarr and Professor Fether , Dr. Tarr’s Torture Dungeon is set in 19th-century France and follows a journalist by the name of Gaston LeBlanc (played by Arthur Hansel). Traveling by way of horse-drawn carriage, LeBlanc is conducting an investigation of one Dr. Maillard (Claudio Brook), a physician who has gained some renown for some revolutionary psychiatric methods. What no one is expecting is the unrelenting chaos that has taken hold of every corner of Maillard’s sanitarium.
With crazed inhabitants running wild and engaging in some not-so-kind ritualistic activities, Gaston grows wary of Maillard’s intentions, but it’s only a matter of time before the journalist becomes the mad doctor’s next patient. A kaleidoscopic spectacle, director Juan López Moctezuma’s film (billed as The Mansion of Madness in other countries) plays by its own rules, making for some truly insane cinema that doesn’t care if you’re cringing.
Read less Lake of the Dead (1958) pg-13 76m Horror, Mystery André Bjerke, Bjørg Engh, Henki Kolstad Kåre Bergstrøm watch on Shudder watch on Shudder Lake of the Dead is a 1958 Norwegian mystery-thriller film from director Kåre Bergstrøm. Following the train-bound journey of a group of intellectuals and socialites, all the familiars of a man named Bjørn Werner, the high-brow bunch soon find themselves in the heart of the Østerdal woodlands at Bjørn’s isolated cabin. But their friend is nowhere to be found, and his dog is dead.
Disturbed by the discovery, a murderous urban legend about a real nearby lake is recalled by one of the visitors — and the deep-rooted, generational hearsay ends up becoming horrifically true. Paying homage to the ‘50s stylings of the film-noir genre, Lake of the Dead achieves plenty of scares through its closed, rhetorical approach, where a single, spooky story is enough to keep us up at night.
Read less Speak No Evil (2022) r 97m Horror Morten Burian, Sidsel Siem Koch, Fedja van Huêt Christian Tafdrup watch on Shudder watch on Shudder Speak No Evil is the kind of movie that reminds us why we should all stop making friends. Period. Written and directed by Christian Tafdrup, this excellent Danish flick is a slow-burning psychological film about two families who meet on holiday in Italy. When Bjørn and Louise (Morten Burian and Sidsel Siem Koch) return home, they receive an invitation to visit Patrick and Karin (Fedja van Huêt and Karina Smulders).
Deciding to take them up on the offer, Bjørn, Louise, and their daughter, Agnes (Liva Forsberg), travel from Denmark to the Netherlands for what sounds like an awesome weekend away from it all, but when their newfound buddies begin making their guests feel uncomfortable, our hero family begins to realize they’re not altogether welcome. An unsettling story from start to finish, Speak No Evil features great acting and a wicked third act that will leave you speechless (just like one or two of the characters).
Read less The Apology (2022) r 91m Thriller, Horror Anna Gunn, Linus Roache, Janeane Garofalo Alison Star Locke watch on Shudder watch on Shudder In The Apology , Anna Gunn ( Breaking Bad ) stars as Darlene Hagen, a 19-years-sober woman who is gearing up to host a Christmas dinner for her whole family. But one dark and stormy night, Darlene’s estranged ex-brother-in-law, Jack (Linus Roache), makes an unplanned homecoming.
As the snow keeps piling up, Darlene invites him to stay, leading to what begins as a somewhat pleasant conversation between long-ago family members — that is until Jack delivers some horrific and devastating news.
The Apology doesn’t need monsters or ghouls to disturb its viewers, because the real terrors are carried out by the demons that dwell within our own families.
Read less Holidays (2016) r 105m Comedy, Horror Harley Quinn Smith, Lorenza Izzo, Seth Green Kevin Smith, Scott Stewart, Nicholas McCarthy, Kevin Kölsch, Gary Shore, Sarah Adina Smith, Dennis Widmyer, Anthony Scott Burns, Adam Egypt Mortimer watch on Shudder watch on Shudder Read less Skinamarink (2023) 100m Horror Lucas Paul, Dali Rose Tetreault, Ross Paul Kyle Edward Ball watch on Shudder watch on Shudder The Canadian horror film has a bare-bones plot: in 1995, two adolescent children awaken from a dream in the middle of the night to discover strange things happening in their empty home. Regular objects like doors and windows keep disappearing, their father is nowhere to be found, and the boundaries between reality and nightmares begin to blur.
Directed by first-time helmer Kyle Edward Ball, Skinamarink is a lo-fi affair shot on digital cameras for a thrifty $15,000. What the movie lacks in polish, it more than makes up for in generating genuinely creepy vibes, as Ball utilizes shadows and silence to generate scares. While some have complained about the nonsensical plot and barely audible dialogue, Skinamarink is one of the few horror films that accurately reflects the experience of being trapped in a waking nightmare. See it before it becomes the cult classic it will inevitably be regarded as in the next few years.
Read less Possession (1981) r 124m Horror Isabelle Adjani, Sam Neill, Margit Carstensen Andrzej Żuławski watch on Shudder watch on Shudder Possession is the kind of movie that’s hard to put a concrete label on, but equal parts domestic melodrama and surrealist nightmare is a description that will get the job done. The film features Jurassic Park star Sam Neill as Mark, a husband and father who learns that his wife, Anna (Isabella Adjani), has been having an affair.
After several domestic disputes, Mark enlists the service of a private investigator to keep tabs on his spouse, only to discover that Anna may actually be the mortal vessel of some kind of dark entity. Genre-defying and unusually bleak, Possession is sure to give you the creeps in more ways than one. Adjani’s three-minute breakdown in an empty subway is alone worth watching.
Read less Tourist Trap (1979) r 90m Horror Chuck Connors, Jocelyn Jones, Jon Van Ness David Schmoeller watch on Shudder watch on Shudder While it doesn’t receive the fanfare of films like The Texas Chain Saw Massacre or Halloween , director David Schmoeller’s Tourist Trap is a ’70s genre flick that deserves just as much attention. The story follows a group of five pals who become stranded at an off-the-wall museum in the middle of nowhere.
As it turns out, the proprietor of the titular trap is a man named Mr. Slausen (Chuck Connors), a charming but enigmatic figure, who may or may not be responsible for the one-by-one deaths of the core cast. If mannequins, dolls, and puppets freak you out, Tourist Trap may be the perfect blast of terror, as the film’s supernatural slasher just so happens to have a penchant for all things porcelain and dead-eyed.
Read less Tigers Are Not Afraid (2017) r 83m Fantasy, Horror, Drama, Thriller Paola Lara, Juan Ramón López, Ianis Guerrero Issa López watch on Shudder watch on Shudder Tigers Are Not Afraid is as bold a horror film as they come, fully embracing fantasy and folkloric elements to weave its symbol-laden narrative. The film stars Paola Lara as Estelle, a recently orphaned girl who joins the ranks of an adolescent street gang amidst the throes of the Mexican drug wars. After wishing for her mother’s return, Estelle’s world is flipped upside-down when vengeful wraiths start following the kids.
A film cut from much the same cloth as Guillermo del Toro’s early cinema , Tigers Are Not Afraid achieves something truly special by stepping outside the bounds of normal genre conventions to tell an impactful and relevant story, employing supernatural elements to carry this incredible cinematic journey home.
Read less Resurrection (2022) Drama, Horror, Thriller watch on watch on Resurrection is one of those movies that has an uncanny knack of digging into your bones and lurking there for weeks and months on end. It’s the kind of film you just can’t forget, a near-fact that’s perfectly aligned with the narrative itself. Rebecca Hall plays Margaret, a successful businesswoman and single mother.
With her life going exactly as planned, fate drops a bomb on Margaret’s arranged existence when her abusive ex-boyfriend David (Tim Roth) resurfaces. Almost immediately, David sets to work controlling and manipulating Margaret, but little does he know that she’s cooking up a plan for vengeance.
Read less The Last Broadcast (1998) r 86m Horror, Mystery David Beard, Jim Seward, Stefan Avalos Stefan Avalos, Lance Weiler watch on Shudder watch on Shudder Before Paranormal Activity and The Blair Witch Project , the world of found-footage horror cinema was fairly bare, save for one-offs like The Last Broadcast , although the latter is certainly nothing to dismiss even if it didn’t get the franchise treatment.
Directed by Stefan Avalos and Lance Weiler, the movie places viewers in the shoes of a filmmaker who sets off into the infamous Pine Barrens of New Jersey to shoot a documentary about the Jersey Devil and four of the creature’s victims. The premise probably sounds familiar, and while The Last Broadcast doesn’t venture too far out-of-the-box, a few third-act surprises make this early found-footage picture a worthy addition to the genre.
Read less Extraordinary Tales (2013) 73m Horror, Animation, Mystery Christopher Lee, Bela Lugosi, Julian Sands Raúl García watch on Shudder watch on Shudder Extraordinary Tales is an animated love letter to the works of Edgar Allan Poe, with five of the prolific author’s stories receiving the cinematic treatment from director Raúl Garcia, with segment narration provided by Guillermo del Toro, Christopher Lee, Julian Sands, and even Bela Lugosi.
While the art style may not jive with all viewers, this experimental approach to the anthology format is memorable, intellectually elevated, and faithful to the master of macabre who would probably be a huge fan of genre slam-dunks like Hereditary and The Witch.
Read less V/H/S/99 (2022) r 99m Horror, Thriller Jesse LaTourette, Keanush Tafreshi, Dashiell Derrickson Johannes Roberts, Flying Lotus, Tyler MacIntyre, Maggie Levin, Joseph Winter, Vanessa Winter watch on Shudder watch on Shudder Read less The Long Walk (2022) Horror, Science Fiction, Drama watch on watch on Read less Grizzly (1976) pg 91m Horror, Adventure, Thriller Christopher George, Andrew Prine, Richard Jaeckel William Girdler watch on Shudder watch on Shudder Read less Mad God (2022) r 83m Animation, Fantasy, Horror, Science Fiction Niketa Roman, Satish Ratakonda, Alex Cox Phil Tippett watch on Shudder watch on Shudder Read less The Crazies (1973) r 103m Action, Horror, Thriller, Science Fiction Lane Carroll, Will MacMillan, Harold Wayne Jones George A. Romero watch on Shudder watch on Shudder Read less Night of the Demons (1988) r 90m Horror Cathy Podewell, Alvin Alexis, Amelia Kinkade Kevin Tenney watch on Shudder watch on Shudder Read less Halloween (1978) r 91m Horror, Thriller Donald Pleasence, Jamie Lee Curtis, Nancy Kyes John Carpenter watch on Shudder watch on Shudder Read less Carnival of Souls (1962) pg 78m Horror, Mystery Candace Hilligoss, Frances Feist, Sidney Berger Herk Harvey watch on Shudder watch on Shudder Read less Deadhouse Dark (2021) tv-ma 1 Season Sci-Fi & Fantasy, Drama Enzo Tedeschi watch on Shudder watch on Shudder Read less NOS4A2 (2019) tv-14 2 Seasons Sci-Fi & Fantasy, Drama Ashleigh Cummings, Ólafur Darri Ólafsson, Jahkara Smith Joe Hill, Jami O'Brien watch on Shudder watch on Shudder Read less A Discovery of Witches (2018) tv-14 3 Seasons Sci-Fi & Fantasy, Drama Matthew Goode, Teresa Palmer, Edward Bluemel Kate Brooke watch on Shudder watch on Shudder Read less Creepshow (2019) tv-ma 3 Seasons Mystery, Sci-Fi & Fantasy Gregory Nicotero watch on Shudder watch on Shudder Read less Boris Karloff: The Man Behind the Monster (2021) 103m Documentary Boris Karloff, Sara Karloff, Guillermo del Toro Thomas Hamilton watch on Shudder watch on Shudder Boris Karloff may be best known for his portrayal of the Monster in the 1931 film Frankenstein , but the esteemed English actor fostered a prolific career within the horror genre (and outside of it). A well-researched dive into the life and times of the titular performer, Boris Karloff: The Man Behind the Monster explores everything Karloff, from his histrionic origins to the roles he occupied toward the end of his life.
Read less The 101 Scariest Horror Movie Moments of All Time (2022) tv-ma 1 Season Documentary Tony Todd, Gregory Nicotero, Keith David watch on Shudder watch on Shudder Read less Cursed Films (2020) nr 1 Season Documentary Jay Cheel watch on Shudder watch on Shudder Read less Woodlands Dark and Days Bewitched: A History of Folk Horror (2021) 194m Documentary Robert Eggers, Alice Lowe, Ian Ogilvy Kier-La Janisse watch on Shudder watch on Shudder Woodlands Dark and Days Bewitched: A History of Folk Horror is the kind of exhaustive documentary that leaves no stone unturned. And in the case of the film’s alluring subject matter — a thoroughly-traced history through folk cinema’s cross-continental generations — there are plenty of pebbles to see. Featuring interviews with genre historians, authors, and academics, as well as buzzworthy filmmakers like Robert Eggers ( The Northman , The Lighthouse , and The Witch ), Woodlands Dark delivers informative three-plus hours that may have been served up better as a limited series, but no one’s going to care if you pause it five times. However you wish to experience this educational tome of roots, runes, and beasts, the choice is yours alone.
Read less The Nightmare (2015) 90m Horror, Documentary Kate Angus, Forrest Borie, Christopher Bleuze-Carolan Rodney Ascher watch on Shudder watch on Shudder Read less Horror Noire: A History of Black Horror (2019) r 83m Documentary Meosha Bean, Ashlee Blackwell, William Crain Xavier Burgin watch on Shudder watch on Shudder Read less Editors' Recommendations The 50 best movies on Netflix right now (November 2023) The best Hulu original series right now The best Black movies on Netflix right now The best feel-good movies on Netflix right now The best comedies on Netflix right now Best Products Streaming Services Movie images and data from: Entertainment You're going to see a lot of Christmas movies on Hulu through the end of the year. 'Tis the season for the Huludays, after all. While we'll go over your Christmas options at a later date, this month's selections of the best movies on Hulu feature a new original film, Quiz Lady, as well as A Haunting in Venice, which recently finished its theatrical run. The other prominent new additions are Jumanji: Welcome to the Jungle and the comedy biopic Driven.
Need help keeping up with everything new on Hulu? Every month, we go over the greatest films that Hulu has to offer while keeping track of what's coming and going. That's why our update of the best movies on Hulu is always current. We're here to help you plan your next movie night.
Entertainment When you need to keep the kids occupied for a while, it's helpful to know the best kids movies on Netflix right now.
Netflix has an enormous library of kid-friendly content, including a host of original choose-your-own-adventure stories, but it's natural as a parent to want to know what your kids is watching. So, to help you find something quickly, we keep tabs on the collection every month and surface the best options here.
Entertainment Netflix has grown into one of the best mainstream platforms to stream anime in recent years. Over the years, the streamer has served its animated catalog impressively well. Naturally, that dense library includes anime as well, and thanks to a respectable dose of original series and established hits, Netflix hosts some of the greatest anime to watch, spanning moves and TV shows of every genre a prospective fan could want.
Crunchyroll and Funimation are the primary streamers for the genre. Even so, considering the dominating presence Netflix has in the streaming market internationally, it's a worthy supplement. But even with how relatively mainstream the genre has become westward, it can still feel daunting to know where to start. Thankfully, this guide is consistently updated every month to help you pick from Netflix's library of excellent anime available now.
If you want more options, check out our other guides to the best anime on Hulu and the best anime available on Amazon Prime Video.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
