Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix F1 Live Stream Stranger Things Season 5 Best New Movies Most Popular Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney+ UFC Live Stream Best Movies on Disney+ Home Entertainment News Hundreds of classic Doctor Who episodes are now streaming on Tubi for free By Blair Marnell Close This month marks the 60th anniversary of Doctor Who , the hit BBC sci-fi series with a devoted fan following worldwide. And while new episodes of the 2005 revival series are coming to Disney+ later this month, fans of classic Doctor Who will get a chance to fully explore the Doctor’s adventures even further.
Tubi has announced that as of today, over 600 episodes of the original Doctor Who series are now streaming for free.
Doctor Who debuted on November 23, 1963, in an era before the preservation of television programs was given any priority. Because of that, 97 episodes are missing from the show’s original 871-episode run. However, a few of those lost episodes were animated with archival recordings of the actors. Those recreations will also be available on Tubi under the Classic Doctor Who: The Animated Lost Stories banner.
BBC / BBC One of the reasons for Doctor Who ‘s sustained popularity is that it maintains its continuity all the way back to the beginning of the series. William Hartnell was the first actor to portray the Doctor, a Time Lord from Gallifrey who travels through time and space on his ship, the TARDIS, which is permanently disguised as a blue Police Box.
When Hartnell stepped aside from the role, the Doctor regenerated with a new face and persona, as played by Patrick Troughton. The rest of the Doctors from the original series include Jon Pertwee, Tom Baker, Peter Davison, Colin Baker, and Sylvester McCoy.
McCoy appeared for his regeneration scene in the 1996 Doctor Who TV movie, which cast Paul McGann as the eighth Doctor. However, Fox only aired the movie and declined to pick up the show. It took another nine years before the BBC resurrected Doctor Who with Christopher Eccleston in the title role. Eccleston was succeeded by David Tennant (arguably the most popular modern Doctor ), Matt Smith, Peter Capaldi, and Jodie Whittaker. The fifteenth Doctor, Ncuti Gatwa, will star in a new season of the revival Doctor Who series next year on Disney+.
First look at Quantum Leap season 2 episode 3 as Ben Song meets a mysterious woman Why Jon Pertwee’s Doctor Who is the best version of the character ever With just a few episodes, writer Darin Morgan changed The X-Files forever In the meantime, Disney+ will premiere the first of three Doctor Who 60th anniversary specials on November 25.
Editors' Recommendations The best David Tennant Doctor Who episodes 5 Walking Dead characters who deserve their own spinoff The 10 best Star Trek: Voyager episodes, ranked The 10 best Battlestar Galactica episodes, ranked The 10 best Star Trek: The Original Series episodes, ranked Tech News Tubi Entertainment Tubi is the most underrated streaming platform. Yes, it's full of cheesy B movies and old TV shows, but it also has a good selection of popular movies from the '80s, '90s, aughts, and present, and the streamer has even started releasing its own original content. Best of all, Tubi is completely free. So even if you do have to search through a bunch of stuff you don't like, it doesn't really matter because you're not paying for it.
The streamer is also a surprisingly great spot for genre fans, hosting a robust library of both sci-fi and horror films. For sci-fi especially, Tubi has some great movies you might not expect a free streamer to have - and they're all perfect for summer. Full of adventure and action (and in one case, a hefty dose of camp), these sci-fi movies are great to watch on a summer's night. So, while it's still warm and before the leaves start to fall, these are five sci-fi movies to watch on Tubi that are filled with the spirit of summer.
Mad Max: Beyond Thunderdome (1985) Entertainment With the anticipated sixth season of the British anthology series Black Mirror about to debut, fans can’t wait to sink their teeth into a new set of disturbingly thought-provoking episodes. With just five episodes set to debut on June 15 that feature a mix of actors like Annie Murphy (Schitt’s Creek, Russian Doll), Aaron Paul (Breaking Bad, Westworld), Kata Mara (House of Cards, Class of ’09), and Zazie Beetz (Atlanta, Easy), it’s poised to be an exciting season.
Looking back at the previous five seasons, there are episodes that stand out as being some of the best and most talked-about ones, like White Christmas, Black Museum, San Junipero, The Entire History of You, USS Callister, and, of course, the interactive special Black Mirror: Bandersnatch. If you’re looking to relive older episodes before diving into these new ones (or even after), there are a couple of underrated ones that are worth a second watch, too.
Men Against Fire (season 3, episode 5) Entertainment Some movies premiere to massive box office success, becoming global sensations or even massive franchises. Other movies, however, aren't fully appreciated until years (sometimes decades) later. In some cases, audiences change. In others, a movie became more relevant as time went by. And in far too many cases, the film was great to begin with, but it didn't align with what critics and the Hollywood machine wanted, forcing the movie into obscurity until it was later rediscovered in the rental and streaming markets.
Regardless of why they were initially overlooked, cult classics luckily found the audiences they deserved and were spared from dissipating into the abyss of Hollywood history. From a midnight movie mainstay about sweet Transylvanian transvestites to an all-too-real satire about white-collar drudgery, these movies started as box office flops but became beloved cult classics.
The Craft (1996) Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
