Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix F1 Live Stream Stranger Things Season 5 Best New Movies Most Popular Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney+ UFC Live Stream Best Movies on Disney+ Home Entertainment News Everything coming to Disney+ in December 2023 By Jason Struss Close Mariah Carey has woken up from her slumber, which means the holiday season is in full swing. It’s about to be December, that time of year filled with honey-glazed hams, presents no one wants, parades no one watches, and unwanted relatives.
Disney+ will do its best to celebrate the season with its lineup of new and returning Disney+ shows , original movies, and season finales that are set to stream in December 2023.
Some of November’s highlights include the season 2 finale of The Santa Clauses , the season 2 debut of Marvel’s What If…? , the streaming debut of Indiana Jones and the Dial of Destiny , more Doctor Who specials with David Tennant, and the premiere of the new Percy Jackson series, Percy Jackson and the Olympians.
 Below, we’ve provided the full list of everything new on Disney+ in December 2023.
Everything coming to Peacock in December 2023 The best movies on Amazon Prime Video (November 2023) Everything coming to Hulu in December 2023 Friday, December 1 Indiana Jones and the Dial of Destiny The Shepherd (Premiere) On Christmas Eve, a young RAF pilot flying home across the North Sea finds himself in peril when his radio and electric power cut out, leaving him stranded and running on limited fuel. Just when it appears his luck is about to run out, a mysterious Good Samaritan guides him to safety.
Timeless Heroes: Indiana Jones & Harrison Ford (Premiere) Saturday, December 2 Doctor Who: Wild Blue Yonder (Premiere) The three specials, The Star Beast (Nov. 25), Wild Blue Yonder (Dec. 2) and The Giggle (Dec. 9) will reunite the Fourteenth Doctor (David Tennant) and Donna Temple-Noble (Catherine Tate) as they come face-to-face with their most terrifying villain yet: the Toymaker (played by Neil Patrick Harris in his Doctor Who debut).
Tuesday, December 5 Dancing with the Stars (Season 32 semifinals) Dancing with the Stars is the hit series co-hosted by Alfonso Ribeiro and Julianne Hough in which celebrities are paired with trained ballroom dancers to compete in themed choreographed dance routines that are judged by a panel of renowned ballroom experts, including Carrie Ann Inaba, Bruno Tonioli and Derek Hough.
Isabel Preysler, My Christmas (Spanish Original Two-Part Special) Spanish celebrity Isabel Preysler welcomes us in the privacy of her home to show us how she celebrates one of the most memorable days of the year: Christmas. With her staff’s help, Isabel oversees even the most minute details and shares the joy of the present and the nostalgia of the past with her children.
Wednesday, December 6 The Ghost and Molly McGee: White Christmess/Perfect Day (S2, 1 episode) SuperKitties (S1, 3 episodes) Villains of Valley View: A Very Villain Christmas (S2, 1 episode) The Santa Clauses (Season 2 Season Finale) The beloved franchise returns! Scott Calvin, after 28 years, reigns true as Santa Claus, leader of the North Pole and Christmas. With his family — Carol, Sandra, and Cal — by his side, and his elves at the reins, he contends with a changing world to keep the spirit of Christmas alive for a new generation.
Soundtrack #2 (Korean Original Two Episode Premiere) Suho and Hyeonseo, who once dated for six years, meet again as a youthful rich CEO and a piano instructor. K works with Suho on a collaborative project and invites Hyeonseo to join them. Suho and Hyeonseo embark on a bumpy romantic journey full of twists and turns. Will history repeat itself? Friday, December 8 The Mission Diary of a Wimpy Kid Christmas: Cabin Fever Premiere The winter holidays are turning out to be especially stressful for Greg Heffley this year. After accidentally damaging someone else’s property with his best friend Rowley, Greg worries he won’t get the gift he so desperately wants for Christmas. To make matters worse, a snowstorm hits the town and the entire family is trapped indoors for days. With Christmas right around the corner, will Greg be able to be on his best behavior? Saturday, December 9 Doctor Who: The Giggle Monday, December 11 Science Fair: The Series (Complete Season 1) Tuesday, December 12 Dancing with the Stars (Season 32 Finale) Wednesday, December 13 The Curse of Oak Island (S2, 10 episodes) Dance Moms (Complete Seasons 3-6 and 8) Kiff (S1, 3 episodes) Mickey Mouse Funhouse (S3, 4 episodes) PJ Masks: Power Heroes Music Videos (Shorts) (S1, 5 episodes) PJ Masks: Power Heroes (S1, 5 episodes) Soundtrack #2 Episodes 3 and 4 Ex-lovers, Suho and Hyeonseo reunite under different circumstances. Will history repeat itself? Friday, December 15 CMA Country Christmas Special Wednesday, December 20 Hailey’s On It!: We Wish You a Merry Chaos-mas (S1, 1 episode) Pupstruction (S1, 4 episodes) Percy Jackson and the Olympians Two-episode Premiere Percy Jackson is on a dangerous quest. Outrunning monsters and outwitting gods, he must journey across America to return Zeus’ master bolt and stop an all-out war. With the help of his quest mates Annabeth and Grover, Percy’s journey will lead him closer to the answers he seeks as he figures out how to fit into a world where he feels out of place and who he’s destined to be.
Soundtrack #2 Episodes 5 and 6 Chip ‘n’ Dale: Park Life (Season 2 Special Christmas Episode) Chip and Dale are as eager as ever to increase their acorn stash. But their tumultuous dynamic makes it hard for things to ever go right. Along with Pluto, Donald, and even more Disney characters, the world’s favorite chipmunk duo take on a brand-new chunk of trouble! Friday, December 22 Marvel Studios’ What If…? Season 2 Premiere The Watcher continues as our guide through the vast multiverse, introducing brand-new and familiar faces throughout the Marvel Cinematic Universe. The animated anthology series questions, revisits and twists classic Marvel cinematic moments with an incredible voice cast that includes a host of stars who reprise their iconic roles.
Saturday, December 23 Marvel Studios’ What If…? Season 2 Episode 2 Sunday, December 24 Marvel Studios’ What If…? Season 2 Episode 3 Monday, December 25 Doctor Who Holiday Special: The Church on Ruby Road Marvel Studios’ What If…? Season 2 Episode 4 Tuesday, December 26 Disney Parks Magical Christmas Day Parade Marvel Studios’ What If…? Season 2 Episode 5 Wednesday, December 27 Me & Winnie the Pooh (S1, 9 episodes) Playdate with Winnie the Pooh (S1, 11 episodes) Rewind the ’90s (S1, 10 episodes) Percy Jackson and the Olympians Episode 3 Marvel Studios’ What If…? Season 2 Episode 6 Thursday, December 28 Marvel Studios’ What If…? Season 2 Episode 7 Friday, December 29 Marvel Studios’ What If…? Season 2 Episode 8 Saturday, December 30 Marvel Studios’ What If…? Season 2 Episode 9 Editors' Recommendations The 10 most popular shows on Max right now 2023 Feast Week live stream: watch Thanksgiving college basketball for free What’s new on Tubi in December 2023 3 TV shows on Tubi you should watch in November The 10 most popular TV shows on Netflix right now Tech News Entertainment The end of the year is almost here: can you believe it’s almost 2024? As you wind things down at work, take time off to enjoy with the family, and relax, it’s the perfect time to curl up with a great show. There are plenty of new and returning shows this month that are available through all the top streaming services. Browse this list and you’re bound to find a few worth adding to your nightly viewing selection.
There’s everything from dramas to comedies, a British heist series, a Canadian gem, and the end of a royal era. Have a look at these six shows you need to watch in December and pick the ones you want to dive into before the year is over.
Slow Horses season 3 (December 1) Slow Horses — Season 2 Official Trailer | Apple TV+ Entertainment Four of the most accomplished teams in college basketball will convene for the State Farm 2023 Champions Classic. Debuting in 2011, the Champions Classic features Duke, Kansas, Kentucky, and Michigan State. No. 9 Duke (1-1) versus No. 18. Michigan State (1-1) will play in the first game, followed by No. 17 Kentucky (2-0) vs. No. 1 Kansas (2-0). Both games will be played at the United Center in Chicago, Illinois.
The Champions Classic is a chance for college basketball fans to watch four of the premier programs in the sport. The event serves as an early-season litmus test for each team. In last year's event, Kansas defeated Duke while Michigan State beat Kentucky, with the latter game going to double overtime.
Watch the 2023 Champions Classic live stream on ESPN Entertainment November is chock-full of wonderful new shows you might have heard about already, including Monarch: Legacy of Monsters, the latest in the MonsterVerse featuring Godzilla and starring Kurt Russell, and the murder mystery A Murder at the End of the World starring The Crown's Emma Corrin. But as we head full force into the holiday season, there are plenty of other fabulous shows being released that aren’t talked about as much.
You won’t want to let these three hidden gem streaming TV shows fly under your radar in November, as all of them have been getting largely positive reviews so far.
Lawmen: Bass Reeves Lawmen: Bass Reeves | Official Trailer | Paramount+ Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
