Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix F1 Live Stream Stranger Things Season 5 Best New Movies Most Popular Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney+ UFC Live Stream Best Movies on Disney+ Home Entertainment Guides Why is the MCU so unpopular right now? By Blair Marnell Close We all know good things have to end eventually; just look at Roger Federer’s career, Taylor Swift’s North American concert tour, or Succession concluding with season four this year for proof. This November, it seems like it’s Marvel’s turn for its unbelievable streak of box office hits to finally conclude, not with a bang, but a whimper.
Marvel has lost touch with what viewers want to see Not enough A-list heroes The creative risks haven’t paid off Too much corny humor Superhero fatigue is real … to a certain extent The box-office numbers are in for The Marvels , and they aren’t good. The Captain Marvel sequel pulled in a paltry $47 million this weekend, making it the lowest opening in the 15-year history of Marvel Studios. That’s a distinction that the company surely wanted to avoid. There’s simply no denying the fact that the MCU is less popular than before — we just have to determine why.
Unfortunately, there’s no shortage of reasons. For starters, the Multiverse Saga has lacked direction from the start, the special effects haven’t been very special, the quality control has fallen off, and casual Marvel fans feel overwhelmed by both the movies and the Disney+ shows. It also didn’t help that the Marvel series on Disney+ have largely played it safe rather than taking any narrative risks.
But there are more fundamental issues at play in Marvel’s rapid decline. And that’s why we need to go over the five reasons why the MCU is less popular than before.
Marvel has lost touch with what viewers want to see Image via Marvel Studios By all accounts, Marvel Studios executives were shocked by the way that audiences rejected Ant-Man and the Wasp: Quantumania earlier this year. After opening to $120 million over a holiday weekend, Quantumania limped toward a $214.5 million domestic total.
The Marvels will be lucky to get even half of that total, especially after this weekend’s disastrous opening.
Both films have failed to connect in a way that many MCU movies before them have, and it’s a truly worrying sign about the Marvel brand. Moviegoers no longer have faith in Marvel to deliver on its reputation alone, and Marvel badly miscalculated what fans wanted to see in these movies.
Not enough A-list heroes Marvel Studios / Marvel Studios Avengers: Endgame marked a true end of an era for Marvel by finishing up the stories of Iron Man, Black Widow, and the first Captain America, Steve Rogers. Those characters have been sorely missed in Phase 4 and 5, and none of the solo movies except Spider-Man: Far From Home , Spider-Man: No Way Home , and Black Panther: Wakanda Forever have reproduced the blockbuster numbers that the MCU is accustomed to.
This underscores the importance of Iron Man, Captain America, and Black Widow, three of Marvel’s most popular Avengers. Since Endgame , Thor’s luster fell off in Thor: Love and Thunder , Hulk has been relegated to guest star or cameo appearances in She-Hulk: Attorney At Law , and Hawkeye’s future is in doubt after Jeremy Renner’s accident. Spider-Man can do a lot, but he can’t carry the MCU by himself. The other headliners need to return and the ones who remain need to step up.
The creative risks haven’t paid off Marvel Studios Apparently, Marvel learned the wrong lesson from Guardians of the Galaxy.
 That movie was widely predicted to be Marvel’s first flop nearly a decade ago, but fans embraced it and the Guardians eventually had their own sequels, video games, theme park attractions, and more. Yet, instead of examining why Guardians of the Galaxy worked, Marvel’s creative executives apparently believe that they can make movies for any Marvel heroes and get blockbuster results.
No one can say that Marvel didn’t try to expand its character roster in Phase 4.
Shang-Chi and the Legend of the Ten Rings and Eternals were big swings with characters who had never appeared in live-action. Yet, neither film managed to elevate their leading characters to the forefront at Marvel. And while a Shang-Chi sequel has been announced, it’s unknown if any of the Eternals will pop up again to resolve their lingering plotlines.
Too much corny humor Marvel Studios No film is more emblematic of Marvel’s steep descent into farcical comedy than Thor: Love and Thunder.
 Early Marvel movies like Iron Man and The Avengers were action movies with some comedy, not comedies with some action. The mixture of comedy and action is tilting far too heavily toward the comedic, and that’s become a turnoff in Marvel’s recent pics.
The Marvels is another example of that. That movie can’t seem to go more than a few minutes without throwing its characters into one farce after another. Getting some good jokes in a script is fine, but Marvel fans don’t want more comedy. They want more character and action.
Superhero fatigue is real … to a certain extent Marvel Studios Regardless of whether The Marvels turns out to have legs at the box office, this film is destined to be the poster child of superhero fatigue. No one was shocked when The Flash , Blue Beetle , and Shazam! Fury of the Gods had disappointing box office returns. DC movies have been struggling for years. And all three of this year’s DC movies were terrible.
For a long time, Marvel seemed immune to any superhero fatigue, even when the films weren’t that great. But between Quantumania and now The Marvels , there’s no denying that Marvel is more vulnerable than ever. The only ray of hope that Marvel has is that movies like Guardians of the Galaxy Vol. 3 and Spider-Man: Across the Spider-Verse had terrific numbers at the summer box office. Those movies prove that people still love Marvel characters and that they will watch superhero movies again and again if they’re good. Until Marvel rediscovers how to consistently hit that mark, it’s going to continue to struggle.
Editors' Recommendations What went wrong with The Marvels? 5 reasons why the MCU is in trouble The Marvels: Is it the worst MCU movie ever? 7 most unpopular opinions about the MCU, according to Reddit The 7 most powerful weapons in the MCU 7 most disappointing 2023 movies so far Apple Comic Book Movies Marvel Entertainment The Marvel Cinematic Universe (MCU) is a franchise that facilitates cross-over events between characters, storylines, and settings throughout its films. Therefore, the endings in each film must set up future stories within the MCU. Sometimes, that can be good, especially if it highlights new characters or projects. Other times, the endings can feel flat if too much focus is dedicated to teasing future films or TV shows.
With the recent release of Guardians of the Galaxy Vol. 3, there have been 32 movies in the MCU. Below, we rank the five best endings in the MCU.
5. Iron Man (2018) Entertainment The MCU is filled with smart characters. The characters who have superpowers often also have the smarts to build their own suits or complementary pieces of technology, and there are several characters who are known chiefly for their intelligence.
While these characters have a dazzling array of powers, it's often their smarts that get them out of tough situations. Amid this lineup of smart characters, there are a few MCU heroes who rise to the top. These are the five smartest characters in the MCU, ranked.
5. Bruce Banner Entertainment "And there came a day, a day unlike any other, when Earth’s mightiest heroes and heroines found themselves united against a common threat. On that day, the Avengers were born — to fight the foes no single superhero could withstand!' That is the famous quote that appeared on the opening pages of Marvel's Avengers comic from the 1970s to the present. Unlike their comic book counterparts, the MCU's Avengers have never been a full-time team. Yet both the comic book and the live-action Avengers teams came together to face Loki and other villains that they wouldn't have been able to beat alone. But the Avengers are not created equal, and some are mightier than others.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
