Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix F1 Live Stream Stranger Things Season 5 Best New Movies Most Popular Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney+ UFC Live Stream Best Movies on Disney+ Home Entertainment Guides Don’t let these 3 November hidden streaming movie gems fly under your radar By David Caballero Close The fall season is in full swing as November makes way for the inevitable holiday craze that will take over once the turkey has been eaten and Black Friday shopping kicks off. Fall is a peculiar season, a time of change that can be as lively as it can be melancholic. Fall is all about reminiscing and reconsidering, especially as the year moves toward a close and our minds haven’t yet been invaded by Santa’s minions.
Mermaids (1990) A Monster Calls (2018) The Ice Storm (1997) For all those looking to get into the fall mood, cinema can be the way to do it. Whether you’re looking for a Thanksgiving movie or a good, old-fashioned story about brown, crunchy leaves, fall and fall-related movies are ever-popular.
 We all know the usual suspects, from bona fide classics like When Harry Met Sally to modern hits like Knives Out.
 But if you’re in the mood for a more obscure film, we’ve got you covered. These three films are severely overlooked and unfairly underappreciated streaming gems that can be enjoyed throughout the year, but are especially effective during November.
Mermaids (1990) Image via MGM Winona Ryder, Cher, and a then-10-year-old Christina Ricci star in Richard Benjamin’s coming-of-age dramedy Mermaids.
 The plot centers on the Flax family — Christianity-obsessed, 15-year-old Charlotte; her eccentric, irreligious mother, Rachel; and her younger half-sister, Kate. Charlotte and Rachel constantly clash, as the latter’s propensity to relocate the family after each new breakup leads to an unstable life. Upon arriving in a small town in Massachusetts, Rachel begins a relationship with Lou, the local shoe store owner, while Charlotte becomes infatuated with Joe, a 26-year-old caretaker with a mysterious past.
Don’t miss these 6 fall 2023 movies that are flying under the radar Don’t let these 3 October hidden streaming TV show gems fly under your radar Quirky and slightly absurd, Mermaids is the definition of a hidden, underrated gem. The film offers a classic coming-of-age story about doubts, fears, religion, and regrets, elevated by the performances of a stellar cast, particularly Ryder, who is riveting. The film is remarkable for its unique approach to the adolescent mind; Charlotte is as zany as the mother she so resents, with her musings about Christianity and faith being both ludicrous and utterly entertaining.
Mermaids oozes fall vibes, not least because it was actually filmed in the fall. It is charming, odd, insightful, almost surreal, and strangely deceptive. The film might seem straightforward at first sight, but upon closer examination, viewers will find a deeper, more complicated message about family, maturity, and the true meaning of stability.
Mermaids is available on Max.
A Monster Calls (2018) Image via Focus Features Fantasy is a remarkably versatile genre. However, whereas light fantasy revolves around princes, princesses, fairies, and goblins, dark fantasy features curses, specters, and, of course, monsters. The 2018 dark fantasy drama A Monster Calls is a modern masterpiece of dark fantasy about Conor, a young boy whose mother is dying from a terminal illness. Struggling to cope after moving in with his strict grandmother, Conor forms a complicated relationship with a giant, storytelling monster formed from a yew tree.
A Monster Calls is an emotionally poignant, brutal, and devastating, yet rewarding film about grief and courage. Featuring a spectacular performance from the young Lewis McDougall, the film pulls off an incredible feat, balancing mature and potentially harrowing subjects with a tender delicacy that separates it from other entries in the genre. The story is relentless and uncompromising, like a cathartic therapy session where you say things you never thought you would, cry your eyes out until they’re red and burning, and leave lighter and more relieved than you’ve felt in months.
A Monster Calls is powerful and unforgettable, a mesmerizing, fantastical tale that demands much from its audience, but gives much more in return.
A Monster Calls is available on Netflix.
The Ice Storm (1997) Image via 20th Century Studios Some films have a distinctive sense of dread hovering above the proceedings, like the test results you’re nervous about getting or a difficult conversation you can’t avoid. Ang Lee’s The Ice Storm is one such film. Starring an ensemble cast, including Kevin Kline, Joan Allen, Christina Ricci, Tobey Maguire, Elijah Wood, and Sigourney Weaver, the film follows two upper-class families seeking refuge from their lives during Thanksgiving in 1973.
The Ice Storm is a sublime and remarkably sad film about people going through the motions; they are not only frustrated with their lives, they are embarrassed by the mundaneness of their desires. Set during a turning point in American history, in a neighborhood so perfect it becomes unsettling, The Ice Storm reveals the trap of the sexual revolution of the late ’60s, which presented freedom and experimentation as the answer to a long-asked question.
Yet, no release came from indulging, leaving the characters just as hopeless and no more satisfied, as well as unwilling, or perhaps unable, to recognize that the ice storm is within and without. Despite its many satirical, sarcastic moments, The Ice Storm is bleak, chilly, and melancholic, a callback to a simpler time that never really existed. The film’s essence can be summarized by a dialogue exchange between young Mikey and his father, Jim. “I’m back,” Jim says. “You were gone?” Mikey replies. Enough said.
The Ice Storm is available on Max.
Editors' Recommendations Don’t let these 3 hidden gem November streaming TV shows fly under your radar Don’t let these 3 October hidden streaming movie gems fly under your radar Entertainment Few comics outside of the world of comic book movies and superheroes have had greater influence in recent years than Scott Pilgrim vs. the World. The story was created by author Bryan Lee O'Malley and follows a man named Scott living in Toronto who is forced to battle the evil exes of a girl that he's interested in.
The legacy of Scott Pilgrim only increased after a movie adaptation was released several years later and became a cult classic in its own right. Now, with the new animated series adaptation Scott Pilgrim Takes Off streaming on Netflix, we're here to make the case that Scott Pilgrim is the best comic book ever. Here are 10 reasons why: It has a unique sensibility Entertainment On November 20, 1973, Charlie Brown and the Peanuts taught us to count our blessings and appreciate the important things in life in A Charlie Brown Thanksgiving. In the Emmy Award-winning animated special, Charlie and Sally Brown are supposed to head to their grandmother's house for Thanksgiving. Before they can leave, Peppermint Patty invites herself and a few friends over for dinner. Even though he can't cook, Charlie Brown decides to improvise and cook a simple meal with the help of Snoopy and Linus before heading to his grandma's.
Though not as popular as A Charlie Brown Christmas and It's the Great Pumpkin, Charlie Brown, A Charlie Brown Thanksgiving is still quite effective in conveying the true meaning of the holiday. It's an appropriate tribute to Thanksgiving. Here's how to watch A Charlie Brown Thanksgiving.
Watch A Charlie Brown Thanksgiving on Apple TV+ Entertainment This week is a particularly memorable one for Netflix's original series with two big premieres. The Crown – the British drama that has been one of the most popular shows on Netflix since its premiere in 2016 – is heading towards the finish line with the premiere of its sixth and final season. Additionally, the cult classic film and comic, Scott Pilgrim vs. the World, is getting a new anime series, Scott Pilgrim Takes Off.
With the Thanksgiving holiday coming next week, there's never been a better time to catch up on what's new on Netflix. You may even need the breather because it's been a busy year for Netflix. Don't worry, our weekly update of the best shows on Netflix will always be updated on Fridays to help you plan your weekend binge.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
