Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix F1 Live Stream Stranger Things Season 5 Best New Movies Most Popular Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney+ UFC Live Stream Best Movies on Disney+ Home Entertainment News Imaginary trailer introduces a new scare bear By Blair Marnell Close If you ever had an imaginary friend growing up, there’s a good chance that it didn’t turn out to be some kind of supernatural force that would come back to haunt you later in life. But that’s exactly what’s happening in Blumhouse’s upcoming horror flick, Imaginary.
 Unlike killer doll flicks from the past, Chauncey the stuffed bear looks about as non-threatening as it gets. And Chauncey doesn’t appear to be as ambulatory as other murderous toys. Instead, Chauncey’s sense of menace comes from what he can inspire his victims to do. Sometimes, Chauncey doesn’t even have to lift a paw to make them hurt themselves.
Jurassic World Dominion ‘s DeWanda Wise headlines the film as Jessica, and Chauncey was once her bear and her imaginary friend. Now married with a stepdaughter, Alice (Pyper Braun), Jessica and her new family have moved into her childhood home where Chauncey has been waiting decades for his revenge. It seems that Jessica’s refusal to engage with him has left Chauncey twisted with anger and he will not be ignored. He won’t be boiling any bunnies, but Chauncey does have his eye on Alice.
Lionsgate It looks like most of the chills from this story are going to come from the decidedly low-budget horror of seeing Alice carry out Chauncey’s will without always seeing him put it in motion. That could actually be very effective because when the movies focus too much on the killer dolls, they start to seem silly. The trailer also reveals that Chauncey’s “games” with Alice have graduated to self-harm, and he wants to take her back to the otherworldly realm that he came from.
Tom Payne also stars in the film alongside Betty Buckley, Taegen Burns, Matthew Sato, Veronica Falcón, and Dane DiLiegro. Jeff Wadlow directed and co-wrote the script alongside Greg Erb, Bryce McGuire, and Jason Oremland.
A new era begins in first Kingdom of the Planet of the Apes trailer Painkiller meets horror in The Fall of the House of Usher trailer 3 things we learned from the new trailer for Ahsoka Imaginary will haunt theaters on Friday, March 8.
Editors' Recommendations FX’s Shogun trailer breathes new life into the classic tale Jason Momoa and Patrick Wilson bro up in Aquaman 2’s first trailer Netflix debuts first trailer for Zack Snyder’s Rebel Moon Leonardo DiCaprio faces dark times in new Killers of the Flower Moon trailer A war begins in the new trailer for Dune: Part Two Tech News Entertainment This Halloween, the video game sensation, Five Nights at Freddy's, is getting its own horror movie, courtesy of Universal Pictures and Blumhouse. The Hunger Games' Josh Hutcherson is headlining the film as Mike Schmidt, the hapless security guard from the first game who takes a job at a long-defunct restaurant, Freddy Fazbear's Pizza. Think of it as Chuck E. Cheese, if the old animatronics were out to kill you after dark. Unfortunately for Mike, the first trailer for the film reveals that Freddy and his fiendish friends have an even deadlier agenda than he imagined.
Five Nights At Freddy's | Official Trailer Entertainment Have you ever wanted to stick it to the rich and make a lot of money at the same time? In 2021, a number of armchair investors and gamers did exactly that during the infamous GameStop stock squeeze. For a brief period, it looked like the proverbial little guy had taken on the hedge fund managers and mega stockbrokers -- and won. Or at least until the stock bubble burst. This fall, Sony is dramatizing the entire experience in Dumb Money, and the first trailer has been released. Fair warning, this is a Red Band R-rated trailer, and there's some very NSFW language ahead.
DUMB MONEY - Official Red Band Trailer (HD) Entertainment While Wonder Woman 3 may or may not happen with Gal Gadot, the actress potentially has a new action franchise from Greg Rucka, a comic book scribe who has frequently written the Wonder Woman comic book for DC. Fittingly, their new Netflix original film, Heart of Stone, seems to have some elements of superhero comics mixed in with Mission: Impossible intrigue. During today's Tudum event, Netflix debuted the first trailer for Heart of Stone, which establishes the double life of Gadot's character, Rachel Stone.
Heart of Stone | Gal Gadot | Official Trailer | Netflix Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
