Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix F1 Live Stream Stranger Things Season 5 Best New Movies Most Popular Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney+ UFC Live Stream Best Movies on Disney+ Home Entertainment Guides Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? 5 movies to watch if you liked The Marvels By Joe Allen Close The latest entry in the Marvel Cinematic Universe is also the shortest, which means that if you loved the zany, quippy energy of The Marvels , you may be looking for something else worth watching that’s in the same vein.
Freaky Friday (2003) The Suicide Squad (2021) Spider-Man: Into the Spider-Verse (2018) Your Name. (2016) Everything Everywhere All at Once (2022) While few superhero movies share the exact time-bending, body-swapping premise as The Marvels , these movies all get at the same vibe, and will be more than enough to keep you busy until you can see The Marvels again at home.
Freaky Friday (2003) The Marvels is not, strictly speaking, a body-swap comedy. Even so, a core part of its premise is the notion that the titular Marvels will swap places any time that they use their powers.
Freaky Friday is a much more traditional body-swap movie, following a mother and daughter who swap bodies and come to understand one another better as a result.
5 bad 2000s action movies that you still need to watch right now The 10 best versions of Marvel’s Venom, ranked 5 sci-fi movies on Netflix you need to watch in November Thanks to excellent central performances from Lindsey Lohan and especially Jamie Lee Curtis, Freaky Friday is hugely entertaining from beginning to end. It may not feature anyone battling to save the universe, but it may capture some of the same wacky energy.
Freaky Friday is streaming on Disney+.
The Suicide Squad (2021) DC’s second crack at a Suicide Squad movie turned out to be much more successful than the first. Following a mostly different group of characters than the first movie, this version tells the story of the Suicide Squad as they find ways to come together to battle a common enemy.
Like almost every James Gunn movie, The Suicide Squad is silly and sweet in equal measure, and while it’s also pretty violent, it has the same sort of goofball energy that The Marvels does, even if that goofball energy is considerably more graphic in The Suicide Squad.
The Suicide Squad is streaming on Max.
Spider-Man: Into the Spider-Verse (2018) Another superhero story featuring heroes who are unstuck from their dimension, Spider-Man: In the Spider-Verse follows a young Miles Morales as he gets his Spider-Man powers, and meets a bunch of Spider-people who are traveling from other dimensions.
Like The Marvels , Spider-Verse has plenty of fun with the idea of multi-verses and ultimately manages to make a pretty profound point about what it means to wear a mask.
Spider-Verse also happens to be wildly inventive, which is part of the reason it’s still beloved five years later.
Spider-Man: In the Spider-Verse is streaming on FuboTV.
Your Name. (2016) Telling the story of two teenagers who swap bodies and become emotionally connected as a result, Your Name.
 is one of the best animated movies of the 21st century. Gliding effortlessly between broad comedy and profundity, the film manages to tell a pretty universal story by focusing on two individual people who find themselves connected across space and time.
The Marvels may not be going for anything quite that profound, but that connection through space and time is part of what unites this team of heroes, just like it unites the protagonists of Your Name.
Your Name.
is streaming on Prime Video via Crunchyroll.
Everything Everywhere All at Once (2022) If you haven’t seen this 2022 Best Picture winner yet, or if you’ve seen it several times, Everything Everywhere All at Once is always worth a rewatch.
Telling the story of a middle-aged woman who comes to question the decisions she’s made in her life after she gains the ability to travel across the multiverse, the movie is at once a story about a hero saving the end of the world and an intimate tale about one woman’s realization that she is exactly where she’s supposed to be. Zany, profane, beautiful, and hilarious, Everything Everywhere All at Once is everything movies should be, all in one package.
Everything Everywhere All at Once is streaming on Paramount+.
Editors' Recommendations 3 movies and TV shows like the hit Max series Julia you should watch right now 5 best death game movies you should watch right now 5 great comedies from the past 5 years you should watch right now 5 movies like Netflix’s The Killer you should watch right now The Marvels: Is it the worst MCU movie ever? Comic Book Movies Marvel Entertainment In case you hadn't heard, there's a new Marvel movie out this week. But if you haven't gotten around to getting tickets for The Marvels yet, don't worry, there should be plenty of available seats. Perhaps the lack of anticipation is a branding problem, since calling it The Marvels distracts from the fact that it's a sequel to Captain Marvel. And if you haven't been paying attention to the Marvel Studios original shows on Disney+, then you may be a bit lost about the two new heroines, Ms. Marvel/Kamala Khan (Iman Vellani) and Monica Rambeau (Teyonah Parris), who are teaming up with Brie Larson's Captain Marvel/Carol Danvers.
The good news is that Disney+ is the streaming home for all of the MCU movies and shows that you need to watch before The Marvels. And in the interest of making things as easy to follow as possible, the shows and films are presented below in chronological order rather than by their release dates.
Captain Marvel (2019) Entertainment The '90s were all about action at the box office. And it's not an exaggeration to say that several of the top action movies of the '90s rank among the best in the genre. But there are far more bad '90s action movies than there are good ones.
Instead of running down the truly forgettable flicks from that decade, we're throwing the spotlight on five bad '90s action movies that you still need to watch. Each of the five films below has at least one or more redeeming factors. But not every one of these movies is readily available on the major streamers. So you'll have to rent or buy them if you want to see them all.
Speed 2: Cruise Control (1997) Entertainment With its arrival on Netflix almost a decade after the book became a sensation, All the Light We Cannot See is set to reach an even bigger audience than it already had. If you've already caught the show, though, you might be looking for other meaty historical dramas that are worth your time.
The series, which tells the story of World War II from two distinct perspectives, is fairly unusual, but that doesn't mean there aren't plenty of movies and TV shows that are likely to give you the same feeling.
A Hidden Life (2019) A HIDDEN LIFE | Official Trailer [HD] | FOX Searchlight Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
