Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending in Computing: Best Dell Laptops ChatGPT Best Monitors Asus ROG Azoth Review How to delete a page in Word in 3 easy steps RTX 4080 vs RTX 4070 Ti Best Mac Apps AMD vs Intel Recall an Email in Outlook Home Computing Guides Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? How to dispose of a printer in the most environmentally safe way possible By Alan Truly Close Printers are complicated machines featuring a mix of plastics, metals, electronics, and components, some of which are potentially flagged as hazardous waste. In 2023, it’s more important than ever to be kind to the planet, and there are several environmentally safe ways to dispose of a printer.
Gift, donate, or sell a working printer Recycling a dead printer Manufacturer recycling Reuse the parts Keep your printer working Even the best printers in the world can reach the end of their life after several years if ink or toner is no longer available. A well-loved printer can suffer from accumulated wear and tear or damage from a catastrophic power surge that’s too expensive to repair.
A printer doesn’t have to be unusable to get rid of it. Suppose you upgrade to a more economical tank printer or move from a monochrome to a color laser printer.
 Whatever the reason, here are several ways to dispose of a printer in an environmentally friendly way.
What is a 3D printer, and how much do they cost? Wi-Fi not working? How to fix the most common problems What is a thermal printer, how they work, and do you need one? Gift, donate, or sell a working printer Brother’s MFC-J1205W INKvestment Tank printer is a small, affordable home office printer.
Alan Truly / Digital Trends If your printer still works, you can give it to a friend or family member. Reusing electronics is the best way to get the full value of the device, and printers are one of the easiest tech products to regift. Social media is a good place to ask if anyone needs a printer.
To avoid any issues, it’s best to provide disclaimers about any problems with the printer, and if it needs ink or toner, share that information as well. If you offer a “free” printer that’s completely out of ink, you might get complaints about omitting that detail.
A local charity — like Free Geek near our headquarters in Portland, Oregon — might accept a printer. And hey, if you get a receipt, you can even write that off on your taxes. Note that the exemption is based on fair market value, not the original cost of the printer.
You can also offer your printer for free online. While small printers are easy to ship, it’s best to find someone local to reduce the expense and greenhouse gases generated from unnecessary travel.
Freecycle is a nonprofit organization devoted to keeping usable products out of the landfill. The Buy Nothing Project is similar, letting you list free items and search for things you might want.
If you’re disposing of an expensive printer, you might want to recover some of its value by selling it. Craigslist or Facebook Marketplace are good options for local classifieds, and there’s no fee to list your printer for sale or offer it for free.
Recycling a dead printer Staples’ e-waste recycling program has taken in over 165 million pounds of technology since 2012.
Staples Printers usually don’t have lithium batteries, but ink and toner may contain other heavy metals and chemicals that can contaminate groundwater. Wind can pick up the fine particles in toner and disperse that waste anywhere. It’s important to recycle ink and toner cartridges, as well as dispose of the rest of the printer properly.
For many years, people threw damaged and old electronics in the trash, and they ended up in landfills, creating a hazardous waste problem. Thankfully, recycling provides the answer for dead printers.
However, you can’t dump a printer in a recycling bin since it’s made of several types of materials. Even if you disassemble your old printer into its metal and plastic components, most parts are unacceptable for residential recycling programs.
Many areas have e-waste recycling programs to help solve this problem. Sometimes, there are community recycling events of one or more days when you can drop off your used electronics and batteries for recycling and safe disposal. Check with your local government or waste disposal provider to find out when and where to recycle printers.
Some electronics and office stores accept old printers and printer cartridges. For example, BestBuy and Staples recycle printers for free. Ask your local stores if they have an electronics recycling program that accepts printers or cartridges.
Manufacturer recycling At Hewlett Packard Enterprise’s Technology Renewal Centers in Erskine, Scotland, employees process electronics for recycling and upcycling, taking back both HPE equipment and other IT equipment, regardless of manufacturer.
HPE In addition to third-party solutions, most major manufacturers have a printer recycling program. You can check the websites for HP , Epson , Brother , and Canon for specific instructions.
The manufacturer pays for shipping, but you must box up the printer and follow specific rules to qualify for free recycling. While this method helps avoid e-waste, shipping an unwanted printer back isn’t the most environmentally friendly choice because delivery vehicles use energy and often create carbon.
Reuse the parts Attempting to repair the Samsung Xpress C460FW printer is a big job.
Simon Cohen / Digital Trends A final option is to keep a dead printer and reuse the parts to repair a similar model. Unfortunately, parts are rarely interchangeable. You would need two printers from the same manufacturer and within the same family.
Manufacturers may refresh an older printer design with new features and give the new product a similar model number. This probably isn’t worth the effort unless you have experience refurbishing electronics.
If you happen to have two unusable printers of the same type, you’d still need to diagnose what’s wrong, and then remove and replace the correct part to get one working again. That’s quite a bit of work, so it’s only worthwhile if these are expensive printers.
Keep your printer working If you use your printer frequently, you should consider a durable small business printer designed to last a long time. Products designed to handle a bigger workload might cost more initially, but often last long enough to be worth the added expense.
It’s worth noting that laser printers are usually more rugged than inkjet printers , but that isn’t always the case.
Our printer buying guide can help you decide which type of printer is best for you.
Editors' Recommendations What does printer spooling mean, and how to fix it on Windows and Mac Best color laser printers for 2023: tested and reviewed The best cheap printers for 2023 How much is printer ink, and what’s the most economical printer type? What is a monochrome printer, and do you need one? Computing While it may not be often, the times when you need a printer do happen, and you'll run into a spot of trouble unless you have access to one. Not just for photos, but also important documents, reports, and a host of other activities -- maybe your kids want some new coloring pages, for example? Anyone considering a new printer is wise to look at the differences between inkjet and laser so they can find the best printer for their needs. For many people, a laser printer is the best option thanks to their fast speeds and reliability. If that sounds like what you need, read on while we take you through the best laser printer deals available right now.
HP LaserJet M209dwe Printer -- $89, was $149 The HP LaserJet M209dwe Printer promises to offer the fastest two-sided printing in its class. Designed for small and home offices, it has a small footprint so you can easily find a home for it. Capable of providing high-quality black and white documents with laser precision, it has a speed as fast as 6.9 seconds for the first page out and ready. A monthly duty cycle of up to 20,000 pages is possible with a recommended monthly page volume of 200 to 2,000 pages so it's well-suited for your small office's needs. Count on up to 30 pages per minute to ensure your report is printed swiftly.
Computing Whether you're a student, professional, or anything in between, today’s world likely demands you find access to a printer from time to time. You can do so with some savings right now, as there are quite a few printer deals taking place. Among them you’ll find options that can compete with the best printers, as well as some well-priced lower end models. In fact, you can grab a printer for as little as $59 right now. We’ve tracked down all of the best printer deals currently taking place, so read onward for more details on how to save on the right printer for your needs.
Canon Pixma TR4722 — $59, was $79 While it isn’t one of the best all-in-one printers, it’s certainly one of the most affordable. There’s something to be said about a printer that can come in at such a low price yet still offer quality printing. This printer will work well in any home, apartment, or dorm room setting. It even goes beyond printing and is capable of making copies, scanning, and faxing. It connects easily to your devices with built-in wireless connectivity, and it can print at a rate of about nine pages per minute monochrome and four pages per minute color.
Computing HP is consistently one of the best laptop brands. It’s been around for decades as a company and always seems to put together a quality yet affordable computer. Its Envy lineup of laptops is among its most popular laptop models. The Envy lineup is its high-end consumer-oriented laptop, but that’s no reason to think you can’t find one in your price range. If you aren’t certain an Envy is the best HP model for you, you can compare the HP Envy and Pavilion lineups. But if an HP Envy feels right, there are several great HP Envy laptop deals taking place right now, and we’ve tracked them all down.
HP Envy x360 2-in-1 laptop 15Z-FH000 — $600, was $900 The HP Envy x360 convertible laptop is a great option for just about anyone, particularly anyone who enjoys the touchscreen functionality of a tablet. It’s well designed and super slim, making it a truly go-anywhere device. Despite its portability, it still has an immersive 15.6-inch touchscreen that’s great for creators, note-takers, and binge watchers. Top notch build quality and durability, fast charging technology, a fingerprint reader, and great battery life round out the top features of the HP Envy x360 convertible touchscreen laptop. It competes well with the best 2-in-1 laptops. Its versatility and all-around capability make it a worthy companion on any desk, and on any lap.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
