Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix F1 Live Stream Stranger Things Season 5 Best New Movies Most Popular Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney+ UFC Live Stream Best Movies on Disney+ Home Entertainment Guides 7 best sci-fi movie actors By Joe Allen Close Science fiction, as a genre, can demand a lot from the actors involved. They’re tasked with reciting the kind of scientific mumbo jumbo that all sci-fi scripts contain and are forced to find ways to make it compelling.
Sigourney Weaver Keanu Reeves Harrison Ford Patrick Stewart Rebecca Ferguson Arnold Schwarzenegger Jeff Goldblum Great sci-fi actors know how to leverage their on-screen personas to create compelling characters, even if those characters live in a world that is not exactly like our own. These seven actors proved that sci-fi is a genre that can be conquered by the right presence.
Sigourney Weaver Twentieth Century Fox Sigourney Weaver’s performance in the Alien movie franchise cements her near the top of any list of great sci-fi movie actors. One of the few performers to ever be Oscar-nominated for their work in a sci-fi movie, she plays Ripley as a steely heroine who is nonetheless severely traumatized by everything she’s been through.
The 50 best movies on Netflix right now (November 2023) The 50 best shows on Netflix in November 2023 Hundreds of classic Doctor Who episodes are now streaming on Tubi for free An icon to end all icons, she’s adept at the action, but maybe even more crucially, she plays Ripley as someone who is easy to understand. She’s been trapped in hell, and Weaver’s face shows us how that feels.
Keanu Reeves Warner Bros. / Warner Bros.
Few actors have been in more sci-fi projects over the course of their careers than Reeves. Of course, there’s The Matrix, the marquee franchise that proved he was committed to the genre.
On top of that, he’s also done work in movies like Johnny Mnemonic, The Day the Earth Stood Still , and even something like Constantine , which is sort of sci-fi-adjacent. Reeves maintains his steely, reserved onscreen persona throughout each of these parts, and he proves to be an ideal cipher for viewers who want to imagine what it might be like to live through the situations he finds himself in.
Harrison Ford 20th Century Fox / 20th Century Fox Harrison Ford has more charisma than almost any other actor in the history of cinema. Between roles in the Star Wars and Blade Runner franchises, the actor has more than established his bona fides as a sci-fi legend, and part of what makes him so great is that all of his characters seem to be almost totally indifferent to the wondrous worlds they inhabit.
Han Solo was the character every young viewer wanted to be, and Ford created an entire archetype with his performance in Star Wars.
 Frankly, the rest of his sci-fi work was just icing on the cake.
Patrick Stewart CBS Few actors can sell nonsense like Patrick Stewart, and writers have been using that to full effect for decades. As the star of Star Trek: The Next Generation and as Charles Xavier in the X-Men franchise, Stewart has had plenty of opportunities to spout nonsense in his Shakespearean baritone.
To his credit, though, Stewart seems to take all of his work seriously, and he’s delivered some truly excellent performances across these sci-fi properties. He may have formal theater training, but Stewart brings his full commitment to every project he takes on.
Rebecca Ferguson Warner Bros.
A relative newbie, Rebecca Ferguson has already charted a path through genre work that earned her a spot on this list. Between her starring roles in Dune , Reminiscence , the excellent Apple TV+ show Silo , and the underrated movie Life , Ferguson has proven that she’s an actress who is unafraid of the scope and scale of great genre work.
Ferguson has been particularly great in the world of Dune , where she plays Lady Jessica, a sort of co-protagonist to Timothée Chalamet’s Paul Atreides. Few actresses seem to care more about the world of sci-fi than Ferguson, and she has delivered fierce performances across her broad body of work.
Arnold Schwarzenegger StudioCanal / Sony Pictures In addition to his work in the world of The Terminator, Schwarzenegger has shown a commitment to science fiction throughout his career. He teamed up with Paul Verhoeven for Total Recall and also starred in the first Predator movie.
Those are just the highlights from Schwarzenegger’s long relationship with sci-fi, but the high point is undoubtedly the Terminator franchise, which helped launch his career and allowed him to ease his way into delivering full-bodied performances. Schwarzenegger has always had a fascinating screen presence, and science fiction usually makes it better.
Jeff Goldblum Universal Pictures Few actors work more consistently than Jeff Goldblum, but throughout his long career, the actor has proven that he fits perfectly into the world of science fiction.
From his earliest days starring in a remake of Invasion of the Body Snatchers all the way through to his work on Jurassic Park and even Thor: Ragnarok , there is something just slightly unusual about Goldblum that makes him an ideal fit for work in science fiction. He can work in any genre, but there’s a reason Wes Anderson wanted him to play the alien in Asteroid City.
Editors' Recommendations The best movies on Amazon Prime Video (November 2023) The 10 best characters in the Hunger Games movies, ranked 7 worst sci-fi movie endings of all time The best movies and shows on Shudder right now (November 2023) 5 sci-fi movies on Netflix you need to watch in November Sci-Fi Entertainment Amazon Prime Video original series Upload could not have come at a better time. As artificial intelligence (AI) technology, robots, virtual reality, and other high-tech innovations dominate the conversation in real life, Upload provides an interesting, albeit parodied version of what the future could look like, not just for the living, but for the dead as well.
When the second season ended, Nathan (Robbie Amell) managed to move his consciousness from the Lakeview digital afterlife into a clone body to navigate the real world. The reason? To investigate details about his death, which he now knows was at the hands of deceased (and uploaded) billionaire David Choak (William B. Davis). The third season of the Amazon Prime Video original series picks up right where fans left off.
Living in the real world Entertainment As the calendar turns to November, many streaming services will gear their programming to reflect the holidays. However, there will still be other genres readily available. Tubi, for example, still has a great selection of sci-fi films. As a FAST service, Tubi customers can access the service for free and watch programs with ads.
Sci-fi fans need to watch these three films in November: a reboot of a storied franchise from the 1960s and 1970s, an iconic horror film from John Carpenter, and a sequel to Guillermo del Toro's monster movie.
Rise of the Planet of the Apes (2011) Entertainment Sci-fi movies are available in abundance. There are some great classic sci-fi movies you can watch on streaming services like Prime Video. But there are also compelling new ones that might be worth checking out.
If you’re looking for something relatively new and off the beaten path, three sci-fi movies on Prime Video you need to watch in November include one that debuted just this year, a popcorn thriller disaster sci-fi flick, and a totally under-the-radar movie from an independent filmmaker.
I’ll Be Watching (2023) I'LL BE WATCHING | Official HD Trailer (2023) | THRILLER | Film Threat Trailers Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
