Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Netflix Original Movies Best Comedies on Netflix Best Netflix Original Series Best Anime on Netflix Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Fantasy Movies on Netflix Home Entertainment Guides Is Scott Pilgrim the best comic book story ever? By Joe Allen Close Few comics outside of the world of comic book movies and superheroes have had greater influence in recent years than Scott Pilgrim vs. the World.
The story was created by author Bryan Lee O’Malley and follows a man named Scott living in Toronto who is forced to battle the evil exes of a girl that he’s interested in.
It has a unique sensibility It pulls from a wide array of influences It translated well to the big screen It features a complicated protagonist It manages to distinguish each of its villains It doesn’t take itself seriously It turns small-scale stakes into much, much bigger ones It’s set in a fully realized world It didn’t go on too long It has its happy ending The legacy of Scott Pilgrim only increased after a movie adaptation was released several years later and became a cult classic in its own right. Now, with the new animated series adaptation Scott Pilgrim Takes Off streaming on Netflix , we’re here to make the case that Scott Pilgrim is the best comic book ever. Here are 10 reasons why: It has a unique sensibility Netflix Perhaps the first thing you’ll notice when you open a Scott Pilgrim comic is that it isn’t like most comics. It has its own style, its own sense of humor, and creates a totally distinct world.
10 best Fantastic Four stories ever, ranked One Piece’s ending, explained This series is Netflix’s most popular comic book show now. Here’s why you should watch it Plenty of comics that you’ll read can feel interchangeable, even if they’re about different characters or set in different places. Scott Pilgrimmanages to feel distinct in a fairly crowded marketplace, and that’s a huge part of the reason it is so successful.
It pulls from a wide array of influences Netflix One of the more remarkable things about Scott Pilgrim is the myriad of different influences that it pulls from to tell its story. Many manga creators have acknowledged the similarities between the fights in Scott Pilgrim and their work, but the comic is also pulling from the formulations behind video games like Mortal Kombat 1.
The combination of influences makes for a totally distinct tone and, just as important, the influences are all out there and in the open. This is a genre pastiche, and it’s super comfortable being that.
It translated well to the big screen Netflix While plenty of great comic book stories don’t work as movies, it speaks well to the accessibility of Scott Pilgrimthat the movie version managed to be such a smashing success.
Having director Edgar Wright behind the project certainly doesn’t hurt, but Scott Pilgrim’s self-contained nature, as well as its easy-to-understand concept, made it perfect for an interesting, visually gripping adaptation. Not all great comics get the silver screen treatment that they deserve, but the fact that Scott Pilgrimdid definitely doesn’t hurt its legacy.
It features a complicated protagonist Netflix One of the best things about Scott is that, as a character, he’s not always the easiest person to root for. He has complicated relationships with his bandmates and is dating a 17-year-old even though he’s 23.
All of this makes him a little bit prickly, and while he certainly has his charms as well, they are counterbalanced by things that might make you question why you’re rooting for this guy. That ambiguity offers some nice shading to what could otherwise be a hero’s story that’s a little too straightforward, and ultimately makes the comics more interesting.
It manages to distinguish each of its villains Universal Pictures Part of the conceit of Scott Pilgrimis that he battles a barrage of different exes over the course of the film, but one of the most remarkable feats of the comic is the way it manages to make each of these villains distinct from one another. There’s a vegan, a hipster, a skateboarder, and of course, Gideon, the leader of the League of Evil Exes and a master manipulator.
These exes aren’t always necessarily full characters, but they nonetheless feel visually distinct from one another, so much so that you can probably name at least half of them off the top of your head.
It doesn’t take itself seriously Universal Pictures Although stories that are too self-reflexive and unserious can be a bit exhausting, Scott Pilgrim manages to be light on its feet while still taking its characters and its world seriously.
Scott feels like a pretty regular guy who happens to live in a universe where crazy stuff happens, and it’s that mashup of elements that makes the comic so consistently funny. Plenty of comics totally earn their immense gravitas, but Scott Pilgrim never goes for a tone that serious, and it’s an important reminder that comics are supposed to be fun, at least sometimes.
It turns small-scale stakes into much, much bigger ones Universal Pictures The central premise of Scott Pilgrimis both absurd and banal, and that’s what makes it work. The movie tells the story of a boy who meets a girl and wants to be with her ,but discovers that he has to beat all of her evil exes in a fight first.
It’s really a movie about overcoming the past in order to build a new relationship, but it uses the best possible metaphor en route to that idea. Instead of suggesting that the world is going to end, all that’s really at stake is this relationship and how much Scott cares for it, and the comic is all the better for that small scale.
It’s set in a fully realized world Universal Pictures When you first sit down to read Scott Pilgrim, you may be inclined to think that it’s pulling its influences from too many different places, or that the comic itself is just too busy. One of the miracles of Scott Pilgrim, though, is that the comic never feels like it’s disjointed or random. Instead, it manages to pull those influences together to create a world that is entirely its own.
As soon as you understand all the different elements that the comic is pulling from, you know what’s coming. Does being vegan give people special powers in this universe? Yes, and that’s part of what makes this universe special.
It didn’t go on too long Universal Pictures Plenty of great comic book stories have lost their luster in part by sticking around too long, but Scott Pilgrim ends in exactly the right spot, having told its story and come to a fitting conclusion.
One of the reasons the comic adapted so cleanly into a movie is that it only tells a single story, promising a climax and then delivering on it exactly the way you might want it to, instead of finding artificial ways to keep the story going issue after issue.
It has its happy ending Universal Pictures Although Scott is a fairly complicated figure, one of the things that a defined story length gives you is the chance to end your story happily. Scott goes off with Ramona, starts a new band where he can play songs just for fun, and finds a way to move forward with his life.
It’s a satisfying conclusion that doesn’t overstay its welcome, and it’s a fitting end to a comic that has, above all else, been really fun to read.
Scott Pilgrim Takes Off and the live-action Scott Pilgrim vs. the World are both streaming on Netflix.
Editors' Recommendations Bodies is one of Netflix’s most popular shows right now. Here’s why you should watch it 10 best X-Men stories ever, ranked 5 most anticipated Netflix shows coming in late 2023 10 best Batman stories ever, ranked 5 comic book movies on Prime Video that are perfect to watch in the summer Netflix Streaming Services Entertainment Summer can be a great time to go outside, hit the pool, or do some yard work. When that heat is really getting to you, though, summer can also be an ideal time to stay inside where it's cool and you're protected from the sun's harmful rays.
Once you're inside, you may find you're looking for something to watch, whether it's a movie or a TV show. Few genres fit better with summer than things adapted from comic books, so with that in mind, we've pulled together the five best movies and TV shows based on comic books that you can catch on Hulu.
Entertainment With the diminished presence of movie studios, San Diego Comic-Con 2023 will have a greater focus on the comic book source medium that inspired it. Fans will need to temper their expectations for the latest in the MCU and the forthcoming DCU, but there are plenty of ongoing comics for fans to read and get invested in.
DC Comics will feature announcements from the current Dawn of DC event and more. Meanwhile, Marvel Comics will also have reveals regarding the future of several major properties, assuring that there will be something for every kind of comic fan. From series like Chip Zdarsky and Jorge Jiménez's Batman run to the former's epic Daredevil finale with Marco Checchetto, there are a few great ongoing comics to help get in the spirit of SDCC 2023.
Batman Entertainment The wait is finally over. Warner Bros. Discovery's big summer tentpole film, The Flash, is out now after decades of stalled development and a nightmare of a press tour involving the lead star's run-ins with the law. Pretty much everyone has been blanketed with coverage of Michael Keaton's nostalgic return as Batman, Sasha Calle's debut as Supergirl, and the bold claim that The Flash is "the greatest superhero movie of all time." Well, is it? Where did this claim come from and why has it been so persuasive in the movie's marketing? If it's true, then there's not much risk involved, but if it's not, if the movie is only just average, then there might be a sense of disappointment or, worse, ridicule, from a fanbase that is loud and unforgiving. Below is a timeline of how The Flash became to be known as "the greatest superhero movie of all time" even before most people had seen it, how celebrities as random as Tom Cruise and Stephen King got involved in the campaign for the film, and its ultimate reception from critics and fans alike.
An unidentified test screening audience Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
