Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix F1 Live Stream Stranger Things Season 5 Best New Movies Most Popular Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney+ UFC Live Stream Best Movies on Disney+ Home Entertainment Guides Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? 7 worst sci-fi movie endings of all time By Blair Marnell Close Even the best movies can be derailed by a terrible ending. That’s true of any genre, but especially so for sci-fi. Far too often, a film will come along with such a great science fiction premise that it seems like it just can’t miss. But if the creative team behind the movie doesn’t meticulously craft its ending, then it can all fall apart faster than you can say Honest Trailers.
A.I. Artificial Intelligence (2001) War of the Worlds (2005) I, Robot (2004) I Am Legend (2007) Knowing (2009) Star Trek Into Darkness (2013) The Forgotten (2004) In honor of The Marvels , a future inductee on this list, we’re picking seven of the worst sci-fi movie endings of all time. If you’ve seen these movies, you know full well how these endings played out. But for anyone who wants to avoid spoilers, then consider this your first and only spoiler warning.
A.I. Artificial Intelligence (2001) Warner Bros. Pictures The most aggravating thing about A.I. Artificial Intelligence is that it almost has a great ending. Stanley Kubrick tried for years to make the film, which was ultimately directed by Steven Spielberg after Kubrick’s death. The story follows David (Haley Joel Osment), a lifelike android who desperately wants to become a real human to win back the love his “mother,” Monica Swinton (Frances O’Connor).
10 biggest sci-fi hits of all time, ranked by adjusted box-office gross Because David is so taken by the story of Pinocchio , he spends most of the movie looking for the Blue Fairy to turn him human. The Kubrick-style ending would have been to stop the film after David is trapped underwater, forever out of reach from a Blue Fairy statue as he prays for her help until his power runs out. That would have been the perfect conclusion. Instead, Spielberg had to go way out of his way for a heartwarming ending in the distant future as alien-like androids revive David and temporarily clone Monica so they can have one perfect day together. Tonally, it doesn’t fit in with the rest of the film, and it just didn’t work.
Watch A.I. Artificial Intelligence on Paramount+.
War of the Worlds (2005) Paramount Pictures Spielberg couldn’t resist another happy ending in his adaptation of H.G. Wells’ The War of the Worlds.
 The film’s depiction of the invading aliens dying from Earth germs is straight from the novel. But Spielberg added his own flourishes with the story of Ray Ferrier (Tom Cruise) and his two kids, Rachel (Dakota Fanning) and Robbie (Justin Chatwin).
As the aliens destroy their world, Robbie is so overtaken with hatred for them that he abandons Ray and Rachel and seemingly runs off to his doom while fighting alongside the marines. I say “seemingly,” because in the final scene of the movie, Ray and Rachel finally make their way to the home of Ray’s ex-wife, Mary Ann Ferrier (Miranda Otto), when, lo and behold, Robbie was already there waiting for them. Then the hugging the starts. This twist wouldn’t have been necessary if Robbie hadn’t run off earlier, and it’s a bizarre way to exit the film.
Watch War of the Worlds on Netflix.
I, Robot (2004) 20th Century Studios In retrospect, it was probably a mistake to turn Isaac Asimov’s I, Robot into a Will Smith action movie. The credits say that the premise was “suggested by I, Robot.
” Perhaps it should have said “very, very loosely suggested.” Smith’s character in the movie, Del Spooner, is a detective who absolutely hates robots. He’s called upon to investigate what appears to be the first instance of robot-on-human violence: the death of Dr. Alfred Lanning (James Cromwell) at the hands of an advanced android called Sonny ( Marvel’s Spider-Man 2 ‘s Alan Tudyk).
Sonny professes his innocence of the crime throughout the movie, until late in the film, when he confesses that he really was Lanning’s killer. It was all part of a convoluted plan by Lanning to warn Spooner about a renegade AI that was attempting to take control of humanity. So, Lanning committed suicide by robot, and Sonny was free to go. It’s a completely flat resolution to the story that undermines almost everything that came before it.
Watch I, Robot on Hulu.
I Am Legend (2007) Warner Bros. Pictures Yea, this is another Will Smith sci-fi adaptation with a terrible ending — what a coincidence. There are actually two endings for I Am Legend , but we’ll go with the theatrical ending since that’s how the director, the screenwriters, and studio saw fit to close out the story. The premise of Richard Matheson’s original novel found Dr. Robert Neville (Will Smith) as seemingly the last normal man alive after the rest of humanity was transformed into vampire-like creatures.
The film ends with Neville sacrificing his life to allow survivors Anna (Alice Braga) and Ethan (Charlie Tahan) to escape with a sample of his blood that may lead to a cure for humanity. Neville blows himself up real good as a legion of creatures attacks him. The problem is that the novel had a more poignant conclusion that tied back to its title. As Matheson envisioned it, Neville really was the last man and the creatures were the new humanity. After they capture him, Neville realizes that he’s the real monster in the eyes of the creatures, and he accepts that he will become a legend in their retelling of history. Without that conclusion, the rest of the film just doesn’t hold together.
Watch I Am Legend on Fubo.
Knowing (2009) Summit Entertainment For most of its runtime, Knowing is an intense sci-fi thriller about John Koestler ( Dream Scenario ‘s Nicolas Cage), an MIT astrophysics professor who discovers that his son, Caleb (Chandler Canterbury), comes into the possession of a strange numerical message from Lucinda (Lara Robinson) that was sent 50 years earlier. Much to John’s horror, he realizes that it’s a countdown of disasters culminating with the end of the world in two days.
John convinces Lucinda’s daughter, Diana (Rose Byrne), and her daughter, Abby (Robinson), that the warning is real. But the twist ending is that the revelations were sent by angels so that children like Abby and Caleb can survive. Diana dies in a horrific car accident, while John burns with everyone else on Earth when a solar flare destroys the surface of the planet. It’s super bleak, and the ending was off the rails as soon as the aliens showed up.
Watch Knowing on Max.
Star Trek Into Darkness (2013) Paramount J.J. Abrams earned a lot of good will for reviving the Star Trek franchise in 2009 with Star Trek.
 Then he burned most of that away four years later with Star Trek Into Darkness , a film that does everything it can to remake Star Trek II: The Wrath of Khan without fully understanding why the previous film worked so well. There are some changes from Star Trek II — for example, Captain Kirk (Chris Pine) dies in engineering saving the ship instead of Spock (Zachary Quinto).
Spock’s scream of despair at Kirk’s demise starts the death spiral for this movie. But before Kirk even gets put in the ground, Dr. McCoy (Karl Urban) discovers that Khan (Benedict Cumberbatch) has enhanced blood that can literally bring Kirk back from the dead. It’s an incredible copout ending that kills the stakes for the film. It takes a lot to render death meaningless, even after Star Trek III: The Search for Spock.
Into Darkness did exactly that in the most flat and boring way possible.
Watch Star Trek Into Darkness on Paramount+.
The Forgotten (2004) Sony Pictures Don’t you just hate it when aliens come down to Earth to make you forget about your dead son? If you’re upset about this spoiler of The Forgotten ‘s twist, keep in mind that the film is nearly two decades old now. Julianne Moore stars as Telly Paretta, a woman who is so convinced that her son, Sam (Christopher Kovaleski), was real that another parent, Ash (Dominic West), also recovers his memories of his child.
It’s a looney premise, but the conclusion is even crazier. When the alien overseeing the experiment tries to permanently wipe Telly’s memory of her son, she clings to the truth and the alien is whisked away. Shortly thereafter, Telly and Ash are back with their respective children. It’s an absolutely flat way to end the movie, which may be why few people talk about it nowadays.
Rent or buy The Forgotten on Google Play , Prime Video , YouTube , or Apple TV+.
Editors' Recommendations 7 greatest sci-fi TV finales ever, ranked Entertainment If you smell pine trees in the air, hear some bells in the distance, and feel a slight chill in the air, that must mean one thing: it's Christmastime, baby! If you want to celebrate the season by watching movies, new and classic TV shows, and buzzworthy content you can't find on any other streamer, Hulu is the destination for you in December.
From intriguing new original series like Culprits to returning shows like Letterkenny (for its 12th and final season), as well as movies like Maggie Moore(s) with John Hamm and Tina Fey, The Matrix movies, and the cult classic Paddington 2 (with a singing and dancing Hugh Grant, long before Wonka), Hulu subscribers will find something suitable for everyone in the household.
Entertainment Even with its extensive Black Stories collection, finding the best Black movies on Netflix takes a little work. Fortunately, we're always scouring the library to find the best movies available for your movie night, and if you'd like to celebrate Black stories, creators, and actors, this list is for you. Read on to find something to watch tonight! Looking for more films and shows that illustrate the Black experience? Check out our roundups of the best Black shows and movies to stream across all platforms.
Entertainment Hulu is among the most reliable mainstream platforms for streaming some of the best anime today. There are undoubtedly more singularly focused streamers for this genre, like Crunchyroll and Hidive, but Hulu is an admirable supplement. Between its serialized TV shows and movies, the service has a healthy dose of variety in its anime offerings. Perhaps more importantly, these productions span a broad range of genres to ensure every fan finds something they'll enjoy.
The best way to enjoy Hulu's catalog -- anime and otherwise -- is the Disney Bundle, as it offersthe most value for your dollar. This bundled package gives audiences a slew of TV, film, and sports content from Disney+, ESPN+, and the base ad-supported Hulu plan. Fans will be able to enjoy dozens of hours of Star Wars and Marvel Studios content in addition to Hulu's terrific anime selection.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
