Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix F1 Live Stream Stranger Things Season 5 Best New Movies Most Popular Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney+ UFC Live Stream Best Movies on Disney+ Home Entertainment Guides The best MCU sequels, ranked By Anthony Orlando Close Some say the sequels aren’t as good as the original, but the Marvel Cinematic Universe has successfully produced many noteworthy sequels over the years.
Honorable Mention: Doctor Strange in the Multiverse of Madness 10. Spider-Man: Far From Home 9. Guardians of the Galaxy Vol. 2 8. Black Panther: Wakanda Forever 7. Thor: Ragnarok 6. Guardians of the Galaxy Vol. 3 5. Spider-Man: No Way Home 4. Captain America: The Winter Soldier 3. Captain America: Civil War 2. Avengers: Endgame 1. Avengers: Infinity War Some of these follow-ups have even been labeled far superior to their predecessors due to how they expanded upon their characters, their conflicts, and overall story themes. Since the MCU shows no signs of slowing down, and with The Marvels shaping up to be a financial disaster , the studio should take note of what made these sequels the best in the franchise.
Honorable Mention: Doctor Strange in the Multiverse of Madness Image used with permission by copyright holder In this film, Doctor Strange must travel through the Multiverse and face the all-powerful Scarlet Witch to protect America Chavez from her wrath. This sequel probably could have taken some more steps in exploring its cosmic concept.
10 best movie superhero costumes, ranked The best MCU endings, ranked All the upcoming MCU movies we know about But with acclaimed director Sam Raimi at the helm, Multiverse of Madness blends classic horror with mind-bending visuals to capture the frightening magic of this inter-dimensional adventure. It also established the Scarlet Witch as one of the MCU’s greatest villains with her relatable but misguided quest to reunite with her children.
10. Spider-Man: Far From Home Image used with permission by copyright holder Following the Avengers’ victory over Thanos in Endgame , Peter Parker takes a break from crimefighting and travels to Europe with his high school friends. But as everyone knows, superheroes don’t get a day off so easily. Spidey finds himself the target of the villain Mysterio, who stages Avengers-level crises with his army of monstrous illusions.
Like Spider-Man 2 , Far From Hom e poignantly shows Peter’s dual lives clash as he struggles to enjoy high school and live up to everyone’s expectations in a dizzying adventure across Europe. Through its villain, the film also addresses relevant issues regarding the rise of fake news and misinformation while satirizing the making of Marvel movies themselves.
9. Guardians of the Galaxy Vol. 2 Image used with permission by copyright holder Set just months after the first film, the Guardians’ second adventure shows them facing off against Star-Lord’s Celestial father, Ego the Living Planet, along with the Sovereign and the Ravagers.
Some people may think this sequel doesn’t rank as highly as its outstanding predecessor, but it is still one of the better additions to the MCU. While Vol. 2 is even wackier than the first film, it hits just the right amount of humor and sincerity as it shows the Guardians overcome their personal demons and grow closer to each other as a family.
8. Black Panther: Wakanda Forever Marvel Studios With the sudden passing of Chadwick Boseman, Marvel Studios made a daring move not to recast him for this highly-anticipated sequel. As a result, Black Panther: Wakanda Forever shows T’Challa’s loved ones as they fight to protect their nation from the Talokan King Namor and other world powers seeking to steal their vibranium.
Though many people had their doubts, Shuri excels as she goes from being a recluse and conflicted genius to Wakanda’s next Black Panther.
At the same time, audiences can practically feel the people behind and in front of the camera mourn Boseman’s death as they continue the story he started without him, giving a cinematic goodbye to a true legend.
7. Thor: Ragnarok Image used with permission by copyright holder Following the lackluster performance of Thor: The Dark World , director Taika Waititi and Marvel Studios revamped the God of Thunder and saved his franchise with this outstanding film. Teaming up with Hulk and Loki once more, Thor must battle against his sister Hela, the evil Goddess of Death, and try to save Asgard and the Nine Realms from destruction.
Basically a mix of Flash Gordon with classic buddy comedies, Ragnarok is an exciting and ludicrous adventure with vibrant imagery and a classic sci-fi feel.
6. Guardians of the Galaxy Vol. 3 Image used with permission by copyright holder As Rocket Raccoon lies on the brink of death, the other Guardians must go on one last adventure across the galaxy and battle the High Evolutionary and Adam Warlock to try and save him. With Guardians of the Galaxy Vol. 3 being his final film in the MCU, director James Gunn pours his heart and soul into giving the Guardians a beautiful and emotional last ride together. Due to how it reveals Rocket’s heartbreaking origins with the High Evolutionary, this film has come to be one of the saddest and darkest movies in the MCU.
5. Spider-Man: No Way Home In Spidey’s third solo film in the MCU, our hero must fight his deadliest adversaries from across the Multiverse after he fails to magically wipe the world’s memory of his true identity. Similar to The Avengers , No Way Home achieves what was once thought impossible by bringing together heroes and villains from outside the MCU. This story could’ve easily fallen into a pit of nostalgic fanservice, but the film never loses sight of its mission and delivers an exciting and poignant adventure that will make audiences laugh and cry.
4. Captain America: The Winter Soldier Image used with permission by copyright holder This sequel shows Steve Rogers and his allies going off the grid as they discover a decades-long Hydra conspiracy to infiltrate S.H.I.E.L.D. and achieve world domination.
The Winter Soldier stands out in the Marvel Cinematic Universe for how it presents its story like a gritty, old-school spy thriller filled with mystery. It also features some of the most exhilarating action scenes ever seen in the MCU, notably the iconic elevator battle.
3. Captain America: Civil War Image used with permission by copyright holder After one of their missions leaves behind several casualties and multiple protests, the Avengers fight over having their actions regulated by world leaders while a disgruntled villain seeks to get rid of the heroes altogether using the Winter Soldier.
Civil War fulfilled many fans’ dreams of seeing Marvel’s heroes battle each other on the big screen, including Black Panther and Spider-Man. The film proves that it is more than just a superhero mashup, as it explores many important questions about government security and individual freedoms in a melancholic chapter for Earth’s Mightiest Heroes.
2. Avengers: Endgame Marvel Studios / Marvel Studios Following the shocking ending to Infinity War , the Avengers go back in time to retrieve the Infinity Stones and revive everyone Thanos snapped out of existence. In this adventure through history, Endgame sends audiences down memory lane as they revisit some of the MCU’s greatest hits (and Thor: The Dark World ).
Though much of the action doesn’t happen until the film’s explosive third act, Endgame shows the Avengers battling their sorrow over their greatest failure and battling history itself to save the universe in an emotionally fitting finale for the Infinity Saga.
1. Avengers: Infinity War Image used with permission by copyright holder After years of hype and buildup, the evil Thanos finally makes his move to retrieve all the Infinity Stones in a rampage across the cosmos in Avengers: Infinity War.
 Audiences can feel the weight of the world pressing down on the heroes as the Titan’s deadly shadow looms over the entire universe, forcing many of them to consider making some truly terrible sacrifices.
Once again proving themselves master filmmakers, the Russo Brothers give audiences one of the most emotional and boldest MCU stories to date, surpassing the first Avengers film and setting a high bar for the franchise as a whole. Similarly, Josh Brolin ushers in a new age for movie villains with his sympathetic portrayal of Thanos, who very much made this film his own hero’s journey.
Editors' Recommendations 7 things the MCU should do in a revised Multiverse saga 10 best comic book movies of the 2010s, ranked The 10 best opening scenes in superhero movies, ranked Apple Comic Book Movies Marvel Entertainment If you ever had an imaginary friend growing up, there's a good chance that it didn't turn out to be some kind of supernatural force that would come back to haunt you later in life. But that's exactly what's happening in Blumhouse's upcoming horror flick, Imaginary. Unlike killer doll flicks from the past, Chauncey the stuffed bear looks about as non-threatening as it gets. And Chauncey doesn't appear to be as ambulatory as other murderous toys. Instead, Chauncey's sense of menace comes from what he can inspire his victims to do. Sometimes, Chauncey doesn't even have to lift a paw to make them hurt themselves.
Imaginary (2024) Official Trailer – DeWanda Wise, Tom Payne, Taegen Burns Entertainment Few comics outside of the world of comic book movies and superheroes have had greater influence in recent years than Scott Pilgrim vs. the World. The story was created by author Bryan Lee O'Malley and follows a man named Scott living in Toronto who is forced to battle the evil exes of a girl that he's interested in.
The legacy of Scott Pilgrim only increased after a movie adaptation was released several years later and became a cult classic in its own right. Now, with the new animated series adaptation Scott Pilgrim Takes Off streaming on Netflix, we're here to make the case that Scott Pilgrim is the best comic book ever. Here are 10 reasons why: It has a unique sensibility Entertainment On November 20, 1973, Charlie Brown and the Peanuts taught us to count our blessings and appreciate the important things in life in A Charlie Brown Thanksgiving. In the Emmy Award-winning animated special, Charlie and Sally Brown are supposed to head to their grandmother's house for Thanksgiving. Before they can leave, Peppermint Patty invites herself and a few friends over for dinner. Even though he can't cook, Charlie Brown decides to improvise and cook a simple meal with the help of Snoopy and Linus before heading to his grandma's.
Though not as popular as A Charlie Brown Christmas and It's the Great Pumpkin, Charlie Brown, A Charlie Brown Thanksgiving is still quite effective in conveying the true meaning of the holiday. It's an appropriate tribute to Thanksgiving. Here's how to watch A Charlie Brown Thanksgiving.
Watch A Charlie Brown Thanksgiving on Apple TV+ Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
