Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix F1 Live Stream Stranger Things Season 5 Best New Movies Most Popular Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney+ UFC Live Stream Best Movies on Disney+ Home Entertainment Guides The Hunger Games: The Ballad of Songbirds & Snakes’ ending, explained By Alex Welch Close Murray Close / Lionsgate Warning: This article contains spoilers for The Hunger Games: The Ballad of Songbirds & Snakes (2023).
How does The Hunger Games: The Ballad of Songbirds & Snakes end? Who really created the Hunger Games? How does The Ballad of Songbirds & Snakes connect to the original Hunger Games trilogy? By the time young Coriolanus Snow (Tom Blyth) has committed to fleeing the dystopian nation of Panem with Lucy Gray Baird (Rachel Zegler) in the final act of The Hunger Games: The Ballad of Songbirds & Snakes , the seeds have already been planted for the future dictator’s turn to evil. Not only has he knowingly ratted out his best friend, Sejanus Plinth (Josh Andrés Rivera), for conspiring against the Capitol by sending a jabberjay recording of one of their conversations to the villainous Dr. Gaul ( Widows star Viola Davis ), but he’s also been given a one-way ticket to a better, Capitol-adjacent future by his Peacekeeper boss.
The only thing blocking Coriolanus’ ascent back to social prosperity is the illegal gun he used to kill one of Sejanus’ co-conspirators, Mayfair Lipp (Isobel Jesper Jones), which he lost track of shortly after her murder. If found, the gun would frame Coriolanus as a member of Sejanus’ failed plot and would likely lead to him being accused of treason and subsequently hanged. Knowing all of this, Coriolanus agrees to flee with Lucy Gray, whose longtime rivalry with Mayfair, the daughter of District 12’s mayor, has placed a huge target on her back in the wake of Mayfair’s death.
Thanksgiving’s ending, explained The Morning Show season 3 ending, explained The Creator’s ending, explained It’s clear that Coriolanus is only going with Lucy Gray because he wants to avoid punishment for his actions. What’s less clear is whether or not he truly cares about her as much as he says. When he and Lucy Gray decide to camp out in a remote cabin located near the outskirts of District 12, though, he unexpectedly discovers the very gun he used to kill Mayfair hidden beneath the cabin’s floorboards. Suddenly, Coriolanus is forced to choose between a peaceful existence spent in exile with Lucy Gray and a second chance at the glory he’s long desired. What’s worse is that, as Lucy Gray herself notes, she and the gun are the only things that could tie Coriolanus to Mayfair’s murder.
How does The Hunger Games: The Ballad of Songbirds & Snakes end? Lionsgate As he begins devising a new plan for his future, Lucy Gray steps away to gather supplies. Time passes and Coriolanus decides to go looking for her. Shortly after he does, he discovers his mother’s shawl, which he’d given to Lucy Gray as a gift, discarded in a nearby forest. When he attempts to retrieve it, he’s bitten by one of Lucy Gray’s snakes, which had been carefully placed beneath the garment. Angered and paranoid, Coriolanus begins searching for Lucy Gray — suddenly aware that she wasn’t quite as blind to his many lies as he’d believed. While he does briefly spot her and attempt to shoot her, though, Lucy Gray uses a flock of nearby mockingjays to confuse him with repeated echoes of her voice singing The Hanging Tree.
In doing so, Lucy Gray manages to elude Coriolanus and signals to him that she knows he’s the one responsible for Sejanus’ hanging. Coriolanus fires his gun in every direction, but it’s never revealed whether any of his bullets connect. Her ultimate fate is left unclear and she, in effect, becomes as much of a mystery as the mythic Lucy Gray she’d sung about in one of the film’s previous scenes. Coriolanus, meanwhile, gives up on his pursuit, hides his gun at the bottom of a lake, and returns to District 12, where he’s informed that he has been ordered to return to the Capitol. When he does, he meets again with Dr. Gaul, who asks him for the second time what he thinks is the true purpose of the Hunger Games.
Coriolanus tells her that the purpose of the Games is to remind the people of Panem who they are. When she asks him who he is, he responds, “The victor.” Thanks to Gaul’s recommendation, he’s subsequently given the money and position within the Capitol that he’s spent his entire life fighting for. However, it isn’t until he pays a visit to his longtime rival, Dean Highbottom ( Game of Thrones actor Peter Dinklage), that he celebrates his victory. Standing over Highbottom, Snow gloats about the power he’s accrued with Sejanus’ influential family through his and Gaul’s lies, while his rival reveals a shocking truth. Despite what his reputation suggests, Highbottom’s not the one truly responsible for the Hunger Games.
Who really created the Hunger Games? Murray Close / Lionsgate Highbottom claims that he drunkenly came up one night with the Games as part of a school assignment. When he woke up the next morning, he immediately tried to destroy the idea, only to discover that Snow’s father, his former classmate and now long deceased, had already co-opted the idea and taken it to their Capitol teachers. As Highbottom mourns all the blood that is destined to be on his hands, he desperately drinks some of the military-grade morphine that Coriolanus stole from Sejanus’ Peacekeeper suitcase, unaware that Coriolanus had secretly poisoned it. Highbottom is, consequently, left to die noiselessly at his desk.
The Ballad of Songbirds & Snakes then ends with a shot of a victorious Coriolanus looking up at various pieces of the Capitol’s propaganda — fiery ambition burning in his eyes. The film cuts to black and a line famously spoken by Donald Sutherland’s older Coriolanus in the earlier films is replayed: “It’s the things we love most that destroy us,” the character remarks.
How does The Ballad of Songbirds & Snakes connect to the original Hunger Games trilogy? The moment brilliantly and subtly bridges The Ballad of Songbirds & Snakes to the original Hunger Games trilogy , and in more ways than one. Not only does it remind viewers what Blyth’s younger Snow ultimately becomes, but its use directly after the film’s final shot also makes it clear that it’s Coriolanus’ love of power that both lifts him up and tears him down.
He is, after all, eventually defeated by Katniss Everdeen ( Jennifer Lawrence ), a character who takes on the moniker of “Mockingjay,” the same bird that Lucy Gray uses to evade his wrath and outsmart him in The Ballad of Songbirds & Snakes.
 Some victories, it turns out, last longer than others.
The Hunger Games: The Ballad of Songbirds & Snakes is now playing in theaters nationwide.
Editors' Recommendations The 10 best characters in the Hunger Games movies, ranked The Marvels’ ending, explained The Walking Dead: Daryl Dixon ending, explained Fall 2023 movie guide A Haunting in Venice’s ending, explained Sci-Fi Entertainment As summer comes to a close, the film studios are considering some major changes to the release schedule this fall in light of the ongoing writers' and actors' strikes. Dune: Part Two and Kraven the Hunter have already retreated from their original dates to 2024 premieres. If the strikes continue for an extended period, those may not be the last films to get pushed back. Thankfully, not every studio is abandoning the fall 2023 movie season. And while no one sees another Barbenheimer phenomenon on the horizon, there are some very intriguing films set to arrive in the months ahead.
We've narrowed down our selections to the 10 most anticipated movies of fall 2023. These are the films that are worth seeing on the big screen instead of waiting for them to hit the streamers. There's not much in the way of romance, but fans of mysteries, superheroes, action, historical dramas, and horror are going to be very happy this fall.
A Haunting in Venice (September 15) A Haunting In Venice | Official Trailer | In Theaters Sept 15 Entertainment Warning: This article contains major spoilers for The Nun 2 (2023).
The Nun 2 begins four years after the events of its predecessor. When it picks back up with Sister Irene (Taissa Farmiga), she’s taken to living a peaceful life in a countryside convent. Her peace is disrupted by the return of her former, thought-to-be-vanquished demonic foe, Valak (Bonnie Aarons), whose recent killing spree through Western Europe has caught the attention of the Catholic Church.
Entertainment 2023 is the year that Warner Bros. scheduled four different DC movies for theatrical release. So far, it's been a pretty rough year with Shazam! Fury of the Gods and The Flash both failing to live up to their respective box office expectations. Until Aquaman and the Lost Kingdom arrives in December, Blue Beetle is the best chance for DC to right its ship. But it's far too soon to say how casual fans will respond to this movie.
Cobra Kai's Xolo Maridueña stars in the film as Jaime Reyes, the young man who becomes Blue Beetle after a sentient alien Scarab known as Khaji-Da (Becky G) bonds with his body. Jenny Kord (Bruna Marquezine), the daughter of the previous Blue Beetle, Ted Kord, gave Jaime the Scarab to keep it away from her corrupt aunt, Victoria Kord (Susan Sarandon), and her right-hand man, Ignacio Carapax (Raoul Max Trujillo).
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
