Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix F1 Live Stream Stranger Things Season 5 Best New Movies Most Popular Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney+ UFC Live Stream Best Movies on Disney+ Home Entertainment Guides The 10 best versions of Marvel’s Venom, ranked By Blair Marnell Close In 1988, Amazing Spider-Man writer David Michelinie and artist Todd McFarlane rocked Peter Parker’s world with the introduction of Venom.
 While it’s true that the genesis of the character began four years earlier because of the Secret Wars comic, it wasn’t until Michelinie and McFarlane that Spider-Man’s living alien costume was revealed to have joined with disgraced journalist Eddie Brock to get revenge on the man they both hated.
10. Venom (Spider-Man: The Animated Series) 9. Venom (Spider-Man and Venom: Maximum Carnage) 8. Dylan Brock (comics) 7. Venom (Ultimate Spider-Man) 6. Venom (The Spectacular Spider-Man) 5. Agent Venom (comics) 4. Mac Gargan (comics) 3. Venom (Marvel’s Spider-Man 2) 2. Eddie Brock (comics) 1. Eddie Brock (movies) During the ensuing decades, Venom had a brief run as one of Spider-Man’s most compelling villains. From there, Marvel decided to turn Venom into an anti-hero so it could put him in his own spinoff comics. That eventually led to Venom headlining his own movies in 2018 and 2021. Due to the actor’s strike, Venom 3 has been pushed to 2025, but it is still coming.
To celebrate the 35th anniversary of this iconic character, we’re taking a look back at the 10 best versions of Venom. And to no one’s surprise, the wildly miscast Topher Grace and his version of Venom from Spider-Man 3 didn’t place on our list.
The best MCU sequels, ranked 7 best cosmic Marvel characters ever, ranked One of 2023’s best-reviewed movies is now on Netflix. Here’s why you should watch it 10. Venom (Spider-Man: The Animated Series) Marvel Entertainment Group The first-ever animated appearance of Venom came in 1994 with the debut of Spider-Man: The Animated Series on Fox Kids. Unlike the comics, the producers of the show introduced Eddie Brock (voiced by The Simpsons ‘ Hank Azaria) as a member of the supporting cast several episodes before he became joined with the Venom symbiote from another world. Another significant change from the canon that worked out for the best is that Eddie worked for The Daily Bugle alongside Peter Parker. So they weren’t strangers when they first went up against each other.
When Eddie finally does become Venom in this series, he immediately becomes one of Spidey’s most intimidating foes despite his initial defeat. But in a nod to Marvel’s desire to make Venom a hero, Eddie does ultimately redeem himself in his last appearance by opposing the symbiote’s evil offspring, Carnage.
9. Venom (Spider-Man and Venom: Maximum Carnage) Acclaim Entertainment[ By the time Spider-Man and Venom: Maximum Carnage hit video game consoles, Venom’s hero turn was well underway. In previous video games, Venom was often one of the final boss characters that players had to beat.
But in this game, which was based on an incredibly drawn-out crossover storyline, gamers could finally play as Venom for the first time in some side-scrolling Final Fight -inspired gameplay.
8. Dylan Brock (comics) Marvel Comics Eddie Brock and his late ex-wife, Anne Weying, never had any children in their initial storylines. That didn’t stop Marvel from retroactively establishing that they did have a son named Dylan. In fact, Dylan’s origin is so convoluted that even the watered-down version sounds crazy. It goes like this: Dylan is the biological child of both Eddie and Anne, but he was genetically engineered by the symbiotes, and implanted in Anne’s womb as the ultimate weapon against Knull, the King in Black and the creator of all symbiotes.
If Dylan ever makes it into the movies, he needs a more streamlined origin. And he might eventually make it to the big screen because Dylan Brock is the new host of the Venom symbiote in Marvel’s comic book continuity. Unlike his father, Dylan started out with the best of intentions. But he has also made some morally questionable actions along the way. Just not as many as his dad did.
7. Venom (Ultimate Spider-Man) Activision The Venom from Brian Michael Bendis and artist Mark Bagley’s Ultimate Spider-Man was Eddie Brock Jr., a former friend of Peter Parker who was frankly, a bit of a dink. This attempt to update Brock’s persona and origin largely fell flat with comic fans. Thankfully, the Ultimate Spider-Man video game offered some redemption for this take on the character.
Players were once again able to take control of Venom in this game. Yet unlike other games, Ultimate Spider-Man allowed players to utilize Venom’s monstrous side, including a very real need to continuously eat innocent bystanders in order to stay alive. The comic book-inspired style of the game also made this incarnation of Venom stand out.
6. Venom (The Spectacular Spider-Man) Sony Pictures TV The Spectacular Spider-Man animated series successfully picked from several different eras in the comics when bringing the webslinger back to TV. One of the major changes was the way that Eddie Brock (Benjamin Diskin) was more thoroughly integrated into the life of Peter Parker (Josh Keaton). In this incarnation, Peter and Eddie were actually friends and interns/lab assistants at Empire State University.
But over the course of the first season, Eddie sours on Peter because of what he believes to be selfish and irresponsible decisions that cost Eddie his job. That’s why Eddie so eagerly accepts the Venom symbiote when he discovers that it hates Peter just as much as he does. Peter had previously rejected the symbiote, and in Eddie, the symbiote had a willing partner to take on Spider-Man both in and out of costume.
5. Agent Venom (comics) Marvel Comics After a prolonged period in which Venom had regressed to villainy, Marvel reinterpreted the character again. This time, Flash Thompson, a Spider-Man supporting character since the ’60s, was given the Venom symbiote by the United States government so that they could utilize its powers for matters of national security.
When joined with Flash, the symbiote and its host were referred to as Agent Venom. They made a good team together, and they even earned a place for themselves on Captain America’s Secret Avengers squad.
4. Mac Gargan (comics) Marvel Comics Before Agent Venom and after Eddie Brock’s first run with the symbiote, Mac Gargan was chosen as the long-term host for the Venom symbiote. Gargan, who was previously a Spider-Man villain using the codename Scorpion, had no conscience or moral qualms about killing people. That’s why the symbiotes’ dark appetites were truly unleashed again, and Venom reestablished himself as a formidable villain.
This version of Venom was also a member of the Thunderbolts and the Dark Avengers while serving as a pawn of Norman Osborn, a.k.a. the Green Goblin. During this era, Marvel didn’t even pretend that Venom had redeemable qualities, and it was for the best. Why? Because there are already too many Spider-Men and Spider-Women, and not enough bad guys as formidable as Venom during this phase of his career.
3. Venom (Marvel’s Spider-Man 2) Sony Venom (Tony Todd) plays a major role in the newly released Marvel’s Spider-Man 2 for PlayStation 5.
 During the post-credits scene for the first game, it was revealed that Norman Osborn was using the Venom symbiote to treat his son, Harry Osborn, for a terminal disease. In the sequel, Harry emerges in full Venom mode, and he even becomes playable for a brief period of time.
However, the best parts of this game involve the symbiote bonding with Peter and making him a much darker Spider-Man. This arc has been played out before, most notably in Spider-Man 3 on the big screen. Yet it’s even more effective here because gamers spend hours enjoying the newfound abilities that the symbiote gives Peter. It also shows Peter’s downward spiral into darkness as the corrupting influence of the symbiote threatens to destroy every relationship that he has.
2. Eddie Brock (comics) Marvel Comics When Eddie Brock and the symbiote debuted as Venom in 1988, their union created one of the most memorable comic book villains in decades. Venom was the anti-Spider-Man who had all of Peter Parker’s abilities and more. He was also so singularly focused on killing Spider-Man that Venom murdered innocent people along the way.
Marvel keeps glossing over that murderous history because Venom’s popularity led the publisher to put him in a leading role as an anti-hero in his own recurring solo miniseries. Venom’s “lethal protector” phase in the ’90s was oversaturated, and yet the character wouldn’t be the more heroic figure that he is today without all of those stories paving the way. Brock was eventually separated from the Venom symbiote, only to be reunited with it a number of years later.
1. Eddie Brock (movies) Sony Pictures Tom Hardy’s take on both Eddie Brock and Venom is a bit goofier than the way the characters are portrayed in the comics. But the reason why they’re ranked higher than the original comic book version of Venom is that they don’t have innocent blood on their hands like their predecessor does. This version of Venom doesn’t need to be redeemed for their individual sins. Venom can still be lethal at times, but you’ll never see this version of Venom killing innocent people just to get to Spider-Man.
By placing Venom outside of Spider-Man’s orbit for the first time, the films allowed the character to standalone in a way that he never could before. That also created an even greater anticipation for the inevitable meeting of Hardy’s Venom and Tom Holland’s Spider-Man, as teased in the mid-credits scene of Spider-Man: No Way Home.
Editors' Recommendations The 10 best characters in the Hunger Games movies, ranked 5 movies to watch if you liked The Marvels The Marvels: Is it the worst MCU movie ever? 10 best horror movies of the 1970s, ranked 10 best Fantastic Four stories ever, ranked Comic Book Movies Marvel Entertainment There are some movies, such as Citizen Kane, The Godfather, and Casablanca, that many people agree are perfect motion pictures. But no matter what anyone says, no film can ever be truly flawless.
At least one error always makes it into the finished product, and once the initial hype dies down after a movie's release, these flaws only grow more and more noticeable, especially as people's ideas and standards change. So while they may have achieved massive acclaim in their heydays, these seven film franchises still have a fatal flaw that needs addressing.
7. Avatar -- It uses an outdated white savior narrative Entertainment When looking at the career of an influential filmmaker like Martin Scorsese, it’s hard not to be overwhelmed by the sheer enormity of it. Over the course of his nearly six-decade career, Scorsese has made north of 20 scripted feature films and numerous documentaries — nearly all of which are considered classics now by cinephiles. In the weeks leading up to the release of his latest film, Killers of the Flower Moon, the quality of Scorsese’s filmography has felt particularly apparent. No other filmmaker of the past 50 years has made as many indelible classics — masterpieces that strike the perfect balance between personal and universal that has always been at the heart of great cinema.
To try and rank any of his films feels like a foolish endeavor, if only because many of them seem to grow in both depth and complexity based on the more time one spends with them. Nonetheless, in honor of Scorsese’s latest directorial effort, we’ve decided to rank his 10 best films in as definitive a fashion as we can.
10. The Departed (2006) Entertainment It took almost five years, but the sequel to Spider-Man: Into the Spider-Verse finally arrived and was one of the top hits of the summer. And Spider-Man: Across the Spider-Verse is everything you could hope for from a follow-up -- and more. It has a much bigger scale than the first film, with literally hundreds of Spider-Heroes, at least five distinct animated worlds, and a ton of heart that made this sequel a huge success.
The incredible visuals got people into theaters, but the characters are the reasons why moviegoers kept coming back to see it. Shameik Moore reprises his role as Miles Morales, a teenage Spider-Man who has a lot of questions about his future. Also returning from the first film is Hailee Steinfeld as Gwen Stacy, New Girl's Jake Johnson as Peter B. Parker, and Causeway's Brian Tyree Henry and Luna Lauren Vélez as Miles' parents, Jefferson and Rio Morales, both of whom have much meatier roles in the sequel.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
