Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix F1 Live Stream Stranger Things Season 5 Best New Movies Most Popular Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney+ UFC Live Stream Best Movies on Disney+ Home Entertainment Guides 3 things that The Marvels got right By Blair Marnell Close Words can barely describe just how terrible The Marvels really is — although we certainly tried in our review of The Marvels , as well as my roundup of five reasons why The Marvels went wrong.
 But there are reasons why The Marvels isn’t the worst movie Marvel has ever made, and two of the three reasons are directly related to the film’s mid-credits scene.
Iman Vellani is an absolute star Monica Rambeau finally has her own story The X-Men are finally in the MCU Fair warning: There are full spoilers ahead for The Marvels’ mid-credits scene. That was by far the most thrilling moment of the film, and we can’t expand on that without going into detail about what it means for the future of the MCU. So consider this your final spoiler warning before we dive into the three things that The Marvels got right.
Iman Vellani is an absolute star Marvel Studios Considering how dour Brie Larson’s Carol Danvers is for most of the film, it’s amazing how much life Iman Vellani brings to this film as Kamala Khan/Ms. Marvel. Vellani had never appeared in a movie or a TV series before she headlined Ms. Marvel on Disney+, but she has undeniable charisma on-screen and she’s the only performer in The Marvels who looks like she’s genuinely having fun.
The 10 best versions of Marvel’s Venom, ranked What went wrong with The Marvels? 5 reasons why the MCU is in trouble 5 movies to watch if you liked The Marvels The vast majority of The Marvels ‘ best moments revolve around Kamala, and she tends to get the best jokes as she fangirls over her idol, Captain Marvel, and tries to will the makeshift group that also includes Carol and Monica into a real team. Whatever happens next for Ms. Marvel, Vellani is going to get more offers for film and TV based on the strength of her performance here. And she deserves all of it.
Monica Rambeau finally has her own story Marvel Studios After Carol Danvers made her comic book debut in 1968, Monica Rambeau became the second Captain Marvel in the comics in 1982. However, Monica subsequently surrendered the code name to the original Captain Marvel’s son years before Carol adopted the code name for herself. And it’s been a long time since Monica has had a major role in the comics. In the MCU, Monica was similarly used as a supporting character prior to The Marvels , rather than getting her own show or movie like Kamala and Carol.
But in the mid-credits scene of The Marvels , Monica finally has a major storyline as she awakens in a universe that is not her own. It’s a world where her mother, Maria Rambeau, is still alive as the heroine known as Binary. In the comics, Binary was the second code name of Carol after her powers evolved. It’s also worth noting that Binary did not recognize Monica, so it seems likely that the Maria of this universe never had a daughter. Assuming this storyline gets a proper follow-up, it’s an opportunity for both women to get to know each other while Monica looks for a way home.
The X-Men are finally in the MCU 20th Century Studios The biggest shocker in the mid-credits scene is that Kelsey Grammer reprised his role as Beast, aka Dr. Hank McCoy, from the 20th Century Fox-era films X-Men: The Last Stand and X-Men: Days of Future Past.
 It’s something that Grammer has campaigned for as recently as last year in this interview with Movieweb.
 There isn’t a picture of The Marvels ‘ Beast online yet, but he was the most comic-accurate depiction of the character to date. As another thrill for fans, John Ottman’s X-Men movie themes were also played in that brief scene.
This was not the same alternate world glimpsed in Doctor Strange in the Multiverse of Madness.
 The biggest clue, of course, is that Professor Charles Xavier and Maria Rambeau’s Captain Marvel were killed in that movie. In The Marvels , Beast mentions in passing that Charles wants answers about Monica’s sudden appearance, which confirms he’s alive as well. It’s likely that the other 20th Century Fox X-Men live on in this world as well. We may even get to see it again next summer in Deadpool 3.
 There wasn’t a lot to get excited about in The Marvels , but the implications of this scene were easily a high point of the film.
Editors' Recommendations Marvel’s What If…? season 2 trailer teases multiverse adventure Why is the MCU so unpopular right now? The best MCU sequels, ranked 7 best cosmic Marvel characters ever, ranked The Marvels: Is it the worst MCU movie ever? Apple Comic Book Movies Marvel Entertainment Warning: This article contains spoilers for The Marvels (2023).
At the end of The Marvels, villains are defeated, long-ago wrongs are corrected, a new superhero team is formed, and one of the film’s three heroes is separated from her friends.
Entertainment Recently, Variety released a bombshell article alleging that Marvel Studios is rethinking its plans for its ongoing Multiverse Saga following the lackluster success of its many films and TV shows. The studio is even supposedly pondering not having Kang the Conqueror be the saga's overarching villain after all since the character's actor, Jonathan Majors, is now on trial for accusations of domestic violence.
All in all, the studio clearly needs to return to the drawing board to bring the Marvel Cinematic Universe back to its former glory, and the higher-ups should consider doing these things in a revised Multiverse Saga.
Have the heroes save the world less Entertainment It's November, which means it's time for the usual seasonal things: holiday movies no one wants to see; too many football games to keep track of; and sales on stuff you probably don't need. It's also time for another Marvel movie, and the latest one, The Marvels, promises more of the same except with a lot less fan enthusiasm and critical acclaim.
Yes, the MCU is in a bit of a slump lately, but that hasn't stopped people curious about what's going on all these multiverses and what latest Easter eggs are teasing future plotlines. The Marvels is no different, as it contains the usual post-credits scene(s) that are designed to whip up enthusiasm for the movie itself and potential sequels down the road. But how many post-credits scenes are there in The Marvels? And just what happens in those scenes and who cameos? Digital Trends has all the answers for you below.
How many post-credits scenes are there in The Marvels? There's only one post-credits scene in The Marvels. Usually, there are two, but even Marvel has to be frugal in this tight economy.
The Marvels post-credits scene number 1 Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
