Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix F1 Live Stream Stranger Things Season 5 Best New Movies Most Popular Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney+ UFC Live Stream Best Movies on Disney+ Home Entertainment Guides Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? What went wrong with The Marvels? 5 reasons why the MCU is in trouble By Blair Marnell Close Marvel and Disney are always scouring the press to get a good pull quote for their films. So for The Marvels , this is what they can use from us here at Digital Trends: “If you want people to stop making comic book movies, then you should make more movies like The Marvels.
” If superhero fatigue wasn’t a thing before this film, it soon will be.
The current box office projections for The Marvels show that it may come in at $47 million for its opening weekend, if not lower. That would place it well below many of 2023’s other lackluster superhero flicks like The Flash.
Brie Larson’s performance is not very super The Marvels has a terrible villain The script is awful The film slips into self-parody The Marvels lacks real consequences What went wrong with The Marvels ? The studios will claim that the actors strike didn’t allow them to properly promote the film. But come on, it’s not like superhero and Marvel fans didn’t know it was coming. They just didn’t show up, and those that did, won’t have much of a reason to come back and see it again. That’s disastrous because superhero films thrive on repeat customers.
The real reasons why The Marvels failed to connect are within the movie itself, and they serve as a prime example of why Marvel is in some very real trouble. Marvel’s once impeccable brand is no longer as invincible as it once seemed. These are the five reasons why The Marvels failed.
Warning: There are spoilers ahead for The Marvels ! Brie Larson’s performance is not very super Marvel Studios Brie Larson is a very good actress, and sometimes, she’s even great. That Oscar she won for Room was well-earned. But why is she so stiff, wooden, and lifeless as Carol Danvers?! Is it the writing? The direction? Or simply the choices that Larson made in her performance? It’s completely mind-boggling to see someone of Larson’s talent fail to make her character seem like a real person with feelings and hidden depths.
The Marvels may not be called Captain Marvel 2 , but this was Larson’s movie more than anyone else’s. Larson has the superhero look down, but Captain Marvel’s persona is not easy to like. That ultimately comes down to Larson herself. If she could have shown more flashes of personality, this movie could have been a lot better.
The Marvels has a terrible villain Marvel Studios Regardless of what you think about Larson’s performance in The Marvels , she’s Ms. Personality compared to Zawe Ashton’s Dar-Benn. This villain may make you nostalgic for Christopher Eccleston’s flat turn as Malekith from Thor: The Dark World.
 A great superhero movie needs a big bad who is worthy of that position, and someone who is compelling in their own right. Dar-Benn is none of those things, and she commits the greatest movie sin of them all: She’s boring.
This could also go under the script’s many problems, but Dar-Benn’s entire evil plan is a lift from Spaceballs.
 Next stop, Planet Druidia! The script is awful Disney/Marvel / Disney/Marvel A lot of Marvel movies have scripting issues, but The Marvels feels like it was filmed from the first draft of a script that should have been sent back for more work long before it ever reached production. The initial conflict between Carol and Monica felt forced and unbelievable, as did their fairly quick reconciliation. Early in the film, all three of the main characters witness the loss of thousands of innocent lives that they failed to save… but they’re soon having a bonding party like that didn’t even matter.
Calling this movie “toothless” would be a compliment. Aside from the titular team, it doesn’t justify its own existence and it lacks any substance at all. And it’s still not the worst MCU movie of the year! Ant-Man and the Wasp: Quantumania still holds that crown.
The film slips into self-parody Marvel Studios Thor: Love and Thunder and The Marvels share a common problem: The directors were so focused on making everything funny that the humor completely kills the stakes of the film. During a desperate evacuation of a space station late in the movie, The Marvels flips right into farcical territory when the entire rescue plan hinges on Flerken kittens swallowing people.
Then there’s the musical interlude on Aladna, which even features Carol going full Disney Princess and singing awkwardly alongside the prince. Those kinds of frivolous scenes make it impossible to take the movie’s main threat seriously when it seems like even the characters don’t care very much about it.
The Marvels lacks real consequences Marvel Studios Late in the movie, it’s casually suggested that Carol can reignite the sun of a dying planet. And sure enough, as an afterthought, that’s exactly what Carol does…but in a way that completely lacks drama or urgency. I’ve seen people put more effort into passing gas than Carol did by passing through a star.
How are we ever supposed to believe that Carol is ever in jeopardy when she just shrugs off a flight through the sun? At least Superman looks like he’s straining to catch an airplane or lift a giant island of scraggly rocks in Superman Returns , for example. Superman performs heroic feats that even he can barely pull off. Carol doesn’t even break a sweat, and that doesn’t make her seem more heroic. It makes her seem less.
It’s also worth noting that the Kree basically won in this movie. They stole a planet’s atmosphere and another planet’s ocean, and now they get a rejuvenated sun just because Carol feels guilty. It’s never even addressed that the Kree brought their fate upon themselves through their own choices, and they even get to skate by this film without suffering any consequences for their actions. It’s yet another reason why The Marvels feels so empty.
The Marvels is now playing in theaters everywhere. But with this kind of box office, it’ll be on Disney+ soon enough.
Editors' Recommendations Marvel’s What If…? season 2 trailer teases multiverse adventure Why is the MCU so unpopular right now? The Marvels: Is it the worst MCU movie ever? Here are all the MCU movies and shows you need to watch before The Marvels 7 most unpopular opinions about the MCU, according to Reddit Apple Comic Book Movies Marvel Entertainment Until now, "superhero fatigue" was a convenient phrase to explain away multiple DCEU bombs, any Sony superhero movie not starring Tom Holland, or the odd random reboot like David Harbour's woeful Hellboy. But we may just be entering the end of an era this month as The Marvels, the 32nd(!) and latest MCU movie, is expected to do less than stellar business when it releases on November 10.
How low can Marvel go? Well, with movies like Avengers: Endgame and even Guardians of the Galaxy Vol. 3 setting the bar so high, a bad opening weekend performance by a Marvel movie is still better than pretty much every other film not named Barbie or involving Taylor Swift. But according to a recent article in Deadline, the opening weekend presales for The Marvels are pacing behind Black Adam (which debuted to a slightly disappointing $67 million last year) and The Flash (which flatlined at $55 million this last summer). Ouch.
Entertainment It's only been about three years since the last X-Men movie but already fans miss those merry band of mutants. Sure, the movies weren't perfect, and some, like X-Men Origins: Wolverine and X-Men: Apocalypse, were outright bad, but they still had a certain charm, an irresistible nostalgic pull that most people couldn't resist. The Fox X-Men movies were the first true cinematic comic book universe, and they established a foundation that helped the MCU take over the world with 2008's Iron Man.
The Marvels | What Comes Next | In Theaters Nov 10 Entertainment It's a commonly held belief now that the MCU has seen better days. Hell, that's putting it lightly; the Marvel Cinematic Universe pretty much stinks, and even its successes like Guardians of the Galaxy Vol. 3 are tinged with a faint feeling of disappointment.
There are a number of reasons why: bad scripts, mediocre VFX, a general sense of narrative aimlessness, and too many variants and multiverses for anyone to follow while still keeping their sanity intact. Nobody knew for sure what the heck was wrong with the MCU exactly ... until now. In a scathing expose, Variety's Tatiana Siegel paints an illuminating and messy picture of a once-invulnerable studio besieged by a multitude of problems, both internal and external, that have tarnished its brand and have left many fans, myself included, jaded about its future. Among the many revelations are the following: The Marvels could be the MCU's The Flash Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
