Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Gaming Features Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Avatar: Frontiers of Pandora’s intricate open-world is worthy of the films By Giovanni Colantonio Close Has any movie franchise ever been a better fit for the open-world video game genre than Avatar? I mean, who doesn’t dream of exploring the rich forests and awe-inspiring sky mountains of Pandora? The film franchise’s world is so captivating that it famously led to “ post-Avatar depression ” from viewers who were pained to return to our comparatively gray world. Though we’ll never get to explore the filmic world, Avatar: Frontiers of Pandora could be the next best thing.
Open-world platforming Lights, camera, action Following a forgettable adaptation in 2009, the upcoming Avatar video game looks like a high-effort attempt to revitalize the series’ interactive potential. It’s a big-budget open-world adventure developed by The Division studio Massive Entertainment and published by Ubisoft. It certainly looks the part, bringing the world of Pandora to life with lush environments and vibrant colors, but Avatar is more than its setting. Could the same open-world formula used in games like Far Cry really match the unique feel of James Cameron’s universe? After playing two hours of Avatar: Frontiers of Pandora , I’m sure that answer may leave fans split. The upcoming release undoubtedly captures much of Avatar’s spirit thanks to an inviting open world that’s a joy to hop around. What’s a little less clear is how well its action–packed battles will fit with an otherwise gentle game about respecting life.
Open-world platforming My demo would drop me into a small slice of Pandora, an already massive open-world map made bigger with the inclusion of sky islands (just like The Legend of Zelda: Tears of the Kingdom ). From the moment I loaded in, I was in awe of my surroundings. Every inch of ground is lined with some kind of plant, whether it be colorful flowers or thick patches of grass. It’s one of the most richly detailed open worlds I’ve ever seen. It’s not a flat land full of obvious paths for players to follow, but a true natural wilderness that naturally sprawls out in every direction.
My first real mission would quickly prove that the impressive design isn’t just for show. After exploring a bit, I’d set out on a mission to tame an Ikran, which I hoped to use as a flying mount. I’d be thrown into a long, combat-less mission where I had to move through a platforming gauntlet up the side of a mountain. As I moved, I’d bounce on mushrooms, grab vines in midair to pull myself up and balance across thick tree roots to cross connected islands.
Ubisoft There’s not a moment of traditional action during the sequence, but it’s a thrilling experience. It almost feels like I’m playing a classic 3D platformer mixed with Horizon: Call of the Mountain.
 Traversal. I smoothly traverse an intricately detailed environment, mastering the nuances of Pandora’s unique architecture like a true Na’vi. It’s that mission where I immediately feel like Massive Entertainment has something special on its hands, turning one of cinema’s most striking worlds into a worthy interactive playground.
That sense of awe doubles once I actually befriend an Ikran. I jump from the side of the mountain and press up on the D-pad to call my new pal to me. It swoops in and grabs me out of midair, giving me a moment to admire the vast world ahead of me with all its vertical space to explore. Ikran riding is an immediate joy, though it takes getting used to. Flight revolves around maintaining momentum through dives and boosts. It’s not easy to pull off right out of the gate, which can make flying feel a little slower than expected. I imagine that’ll just take some getting used to; after all, I’m new in town.
Lights, camera, action That Ikran flight would gradually lead me into some of the adventure’s more action-focused elements. When I spot some mechanical rigs in the sky, I land on them and complete a scanner minigame to reveal some explosive batteries on board. Before I can detonate them, a few drones take aim at me. I break out some arrows and knock them out of the sky with ease before firing at the batteries, jumping on my Ikran, and sailing away from the explosion. It’s a true Hollywood moment.
Combat would become more of an emphasis as I launched into my next missions — and that’s where cognitive dissonance would start to creep in. The big set piece of my two-hour session came when I was tasked with sabotaging a mechanical outpost in the forest. After a failed first attempt to run in with arrows blazing, I’d get a feel for Frontiers of Pandora on a stealthier approach. I snuck through a complex structure, hiding from guards and mechs alike as I shut down drills. I got to do more strong 3D platforming here as I scaled the side of a massive metal structure. Like the previous mission, it’s a spectacular blockbuster spectacle as I quickly move between valves and leave explosions in my wake.
Ubisoft All that noise would eventually alert local soldiers, which would give me a chance to use my arsenal. The protagonist is unique in that they were trained as a soldier by the RDA before escaping and embracing their Na’vi heritage. That means they can use both Na’vi weapons and realistic guns. As crap hit the fan, I started picking weapons off of mechs like I was Horizon’s Aloy and gunning down human soldiers with a machine gun. My favorite tool would let me lob grenades at enemies as if I were throwing them from a lacrosse stick. It’s all as slick and responsive as you’d expect from a modern first-person shooter.
Therein lies the complication. When I’m not in battle, Frontiers of Pandora is a peaceful experience that honors the fictional Na’vi’s traditions. When I pick a resource off a tree, I have to carefully complete a minigame to protect the precious material. Grabbing resources from an animal isn’t as simple as pressing a button over its corpse. If I kill a critter and strip it for parts, I kneel for a moment and offer a quick thank you to its spirit for helping me on my journey. It’s a unique subversion of the usual open-world gluttony and one that entirely fits with the tone of the Avatar films.
And so it’s a little odd when I violently gun down a pipsqueak alien with several machine gun rounds before giving thanks. During my outpost operation, I lobbed an arrow at a pipe, causing it to spew fire. I then watched as a human soldier that was under it ran around engulfed in flames, screaming as they died. It all feels weirdly at odds with the more gentle moments that had drawn me in up to that point — though I’d be lying if I said those high-octane moments didn’t feel thrilling.
Ubisoft There’s a good chance those complicated feelings are simply a side effect of seeing disconnected chunks of a sprawling story out of context. The duality seems intentional, as this is a story about a character torn between worlds. It narratively makes sense that they’d bounce between peaceful Na’vi routine and human violence. Massive Entertainment has a delicate job on its hands in how it links those two stories together, lest it ends up with a game that struggles to have its guns and shoot them too.
Two hours was enough to give me a feel for Frontiers of Pandora ’s broad strokes, but there’s still plenty more to explore. I hardly messed with its multiple skill trees, crafting, or gear mod systems. I only got a quick glimpse at some open-world side activities too as I hunted down photo locations and solved a mystery at a helicopter crash site by linking together clues. The best moments draw on my heightened senses as I track down a lost electronic device by following its sound in the quiet night. I once again feel like a Na’vi in those sequences, tuning into their home world to gain a deeper connection with it. Hopefully, the story will mirror that growth too, weaning me away from my violent video game instincts so I can find peace in Pandora.
Avatar: Frontiers of Pandora launches on December 7 for PS5 , Xbox Series X /S, PC, and Amazon Luna.
Editors' Recommendations Avatar: Frontiers of Pandora honors the Na’vi with ‘quality over quantity’ gameplay Ubisoft Forward 2023: How to watch and what to expect Avatar: Frontiers of Pandora isn’t coming until after March 2023 Sonic Frontiers’ open-world pivot is exactly what the series needs What makes an open world game ‘Breath of the Wild-like?’ Features Music Streaming Services Sci-Fi Gaming Even though it came out all the way back in 2009, Avatar's world is still technically impressive, and that fidelity is going to be reflected in the game Avatar: Frontiers of Pandora. Announced at Ubisoft's Forward E3 press conference with a technically impressive trailer, much of the game is still a mystery. However, Ubisoft has put out a new trailer, and while it doesn't talk about gameplay or the game's story, it does detail the changes that had to be made to Ubisoft's Snowdrop engine to make the game visually stunning.
Avatar: Frontiers of Pandora – Snowdrop Tech Showcase Gaming Ubisoft revealed Avatar: Frontiers of Pandora at its Ubisoft Forward E3 press conference. The company showed a cinematic trailer that featured air combat between soldiers and the dwellers of Pandora, exploration in a large, lush world, and several unique monsters, characters, and mounts. Based on the James Cameron movie, the game is powered by Ubisoft's Snowdrop Engine. The game launches in 2022 for PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, PC, Stadia, and Luna.
Avatar: Frontiers of Pandora – First Look Trailer Web With so many Black Friday deals already under way, it can be tough to keep on top of everything. Walmart has dozens of different awesome deals so we've narrowed things down to the best Walmart Black Friday deals currently available. There's a little bit of everything here with discounts on TVs, headphones, laptops, coffee makers, and much more. The retailer is also having a massive Black Friday Lego sale. Whatever you're considering buying, keep reading while we take you through some great options.
Other retailers have started early too, so check out Amazon Black Friday deals and Best Buy Black Friday deals.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
