Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix F1 Live Stream Stranger Things Season 5 Best New Movies Most Popular Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney+ UFC Live Stream Best Movies on Disney+ Home Entertainment Guides 10 best action movie sidekicks ever, ranked By Anthony Orlando Close Some of the cinema’s greatest protagonists are nothing without their partners. This rings especially true for action heroes, as they need their most reliable allies to save the world or just defeat whatever bad guy is threatening their lives.
10. John Connor – Terminator 2: Judgment Day 9. Joshamee Gibbs – Pirates of the Caribbean franchise 8. James ‘Rhodey’ Rhodes – Iron Man franchise 7. Sallah – Indiana Jones franchise 6. Ned Leeds – Spider-Man Home Trilogy 5. Chewbacca – Star Wars franchise 4. Groot – Guardians of the Galaxy franchise 3. Nick ‘Goose’ Bradshaw – Top Gun (1986) 2. Alfred Pennyworth – Batman franchise 1. Samwise Gamgee – The Lord of the Rings trilogy But sometimes, they don’t get the recognition they deserve. In honor of these often unsung heroes, let’s look back at how these ten action movie sidekicks saved the day in their own way.
10. John Connor – Terminator 2: Judgment Day Image used with permission by copyright holder Though he grows up to lead humanity in the war against the machines, the second Terminator film shows the young John Connor supporting the T-800 sent back in time by his future self to protect him from Skynet.
The Marvels: Is it the worst MCU movie ever? 10 biggest action movie hits ever, ranked by adjusted box office 10 best movie superhero costumes, ranked During their short time together, John brings out the best in his guardian android , teaching him to act like a human and show mercy to those around him in an unforgettable bond between man and machine.
9. Joshamee Gibbs – Pirates of the Caribbean franchise Disney / Disney Even though he went from the Royal Navy to a life of piracy, Mr. Gibbs acts as the wise voice of reason that Jack Sparrow sorely needs. Though Jack isn’t always the best captain to his crew, at the end of the day, Gibbs always stands by him.
He was even willing to break the Pirate Code and rescue Jack when he was trapped at Port Royal, proving that when it comes to first mates, Gibbs is number one.
8. James ‘Rhodey’ Rhodes – Iron Man franchise Marvel Studios / Marvel Studios Fighting alongside Iron Man as War Machine, Colonel James Rhodes has been at Tony Stark’s side since the Marvel Cinematic Universe began.
Though he has struggled to look out for Tony and serve his country, Rhodey always proves himself loyal to his best friend, as well as their fellow Avengers, willing to defy his superiors to do what’s best for them and the world.
7. Sallah – Indiana Jones franchise Paramount Pictures / Paramount Pictures Indy has had many partners throughout his years as a globe-trotting, with Marion Underwood and Short Round some of his best companions. But none of them are quite like Indy’s long-time pal, Sallah.
First appearing in Raiders of the Lost Ark , Sallah would later accompany Dr. Jones on his journeys in The Last Crusade and The Dial of Destiny.
 Brimming with gusto and optimism, Sallah acts as the perfect foil to Indy’s character, and he has gone on to be one of the most beloved figures in the franchise.
6. Ned Leeds – Spider-Man Home Trilogy Marvel Studios / Marvel Studios Ever since he learned that his best pal Peter is Spider-Man, Ned has helped the web-slinger be a superhero as his “guy in the chair.” Whether Peter’s fighting crime or finding romance, he can always rely on Ned to help him win the day, and it doesn’t look like he’ll end up becoming Spidey’s foe, the Hobgoblin, anytime soon.
5. Chewbacca – Star Wars franchise Lucasfilm / Lucasfilm Many people hardly imagine Han Solo without his furry co-pilot at his side, and vice versa. Since the former met him in an Imperial prison, the duo have been inseparable as they embark on countless interstellar journeys, either as smugglers or heroes protecting the galaxy from evil.
In an iconic franchise filled with iconic characters, Chewbacca remains one of the most memorable parts of the Star Wars canon, stealing every scene he’s in with just his gargling growl.
4. Groot – Guardians of the Galaxy franchise Marvel Studios / Marvel Studios This Flora colossus has been at Rocket’s side since they first appeared in the Marvel Cinematic Universe. Groot may not be good with words, but his actions speak volumes about his character, as he has put his life on the line numerous times to protect his friends and those in need.
Most notably, Groot sacrificed himself to save his newfound family while battling Ronan the Accuser, uttering the iconic phrase, “We are Groot.” 3. Nick ‘Goose’ Bradshaw – Top Gun (1986) Paramount Pictures / Paramount Pictures Great balls of fire! Maverick wouldn’t have been the man he is today without his former wingman, Goose. He may be silly, snarky, and easygoing, but Goose was wise enough to reel in his more cocky and foolhardy counterpart as their lives as aviators are put on the line.
Nevertheless, he sticks by Maverick all the way to his tragic end, and even in death, he still has his back. His memory lived on in Top Gun: Maverick , which saw his son step into his shoes and fulfill his destiny of being the hero in his own story.
2. Alfred Pennyworth – Batman franchise Image via Warner Bros. Pictures / Image via Warner Bros. Pictures Following the tragic murder of his parents in Crime Alley, Bruce falls under the care of his butler, Alfred, who becomes an integral part of his life as both the billionaire Wayne and the vigilante Batman.
No matter what film he appears in or which actor plays him, Alfred is always there to support “Master Wayne” with sage advice and witty remarks like the loving father figure he is.
1. Samwise Gamgee – The Lord of the Rings trilogy New Line Cinema / New Line Cinema After spying on Frodo and Gandalf discussing their quest to destroy the One Ring, the former’s humble gardener accompanies him on his grand adventure, and the Hobbit couldn’t have completed it without him.
Sam is loyal to Frodo through and through, always staying at his side during his journey to Mordor and saving him from the likes of Gollum, Shelob, and Sauron’s Orcs. He was even strong enough to resist the One Ring and carry Frodo to the top of Mount Doom so he could fulfill his task.
Editors' Recommendations The best MCU sequels, ranked 7 biggest flaws of the most popular movie franchises, ranked 10 worst action heroes ever, ranked 10 best comic book movies of the 2010s, ranked 10 best sci-fi movies of the 1980s, ranked Action Comic Book Movies Fantasy Marvel Sci-Fi Star Wars Entertainment There's no rest for Marvel's famous web-slinger. Spider-Man is, perhaps, the most popular superhero across the entire pantheon of Marvel heroes. For decades, the spunky young hero has been pummeling criminals with both his fists and comical wit. He's moved from the pages of comic books to headline several TV series and blockbusting cinematic adventures. Spider-Man's presence in the pop culture fandom simply can't be understated. And with recent storyline innovations and animated adaptations like Across the Spider-Verse, Peter Parker is just one of countless wall-crawlers who dons the title. Each Spider-Man, Spider-Woman, or uh, Spider-Rex (that's right, there's a T-Rex with spider powers) has their own story and individual capabilities.
Whether we're viewing the world from the Peter Parker lens or any of his countless inter-dimensional compadres, there's a wealth of Spider-Man stories at our fingertips across multiple mediums. In our multimedia age, Spider-Man is everywhere and some of the best stories featuring the iconic hero aren't always within the pages of comic books. So, if you're looking for a Spider-Man story oozing with thrills, character-centric story arcs, and enthralling conflicts, look no further than our handy list featuring Spider-Man at his best.
10. The Amazing Spider-Man 31-33: The Master Planner Saga Entertainment Few movie stars have received as much acclaim, attention, or adoration as Harrison Ford. The legendary actor’s roles in not just one but several beloved film franchises have turned him into one of the most iconic stars in the history of Hollywood. To his credit, Ford hasn’t just rested on his various sci-fi and fantasy laurels, either. Over the course of his career, he’s padded out his filmography with roles in some of the most seminal dramas, romantic comedies, and blockbusters of all time.
With Ford’s supposedly final outing as Indiana Jones currently playing in theaters, now seems like as good a time as any to see what Rotten Tomatoes claims are his seven best movies. Before we begin, though, it’s worth noting that Ford’s three highest-rated scripted films on RT are Apocalypse Now, The Conversation, and American Graffiti. While all of those films are undeniably great, too, they aren’t necessarily showcases of Ford’s talent and star power. So, with the actual purposes of this list in mind, we’ve chosen not to include them.
Entertainment Cinema has the power to take us to exciting new places, both real and imagined. Through the portal of science fiction, we can be transported to incredible, even impossible new worlds. We’re not just talking about alien planets and moons, but artificial satellites, other dimensions, dark futures, and virtual realities. They can excite the imagination, but more importantly, they can help us to recontextualize our own world and our place in it.
A great setting is a reflection of its story’s themes, and that’s never more true than in science fiction. These are some of the most fascinating worlds that sci-fi cinema has allowed us to visit — though, in most cases, you wouldn’t want to live there.
10. Jupiter (Jupiter Ascending) Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
