Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix F1 Live Stream Stranger Things Season 5 Best New Movies Most Popular Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney+ UFC Live Stream Best Movies on Disney+ Home Entertainment Guides The 10 most anticipated movies of fall 2023 By Blair Marnell Close Apple TV+ As summer comes to a close, the film studios are considering some major changes to the release schedule this fall in light of the ongoing writers’ and actors’ strikes.
Dune: Part Two and Kraven the Hunter have already retreated from their original dates to 2024 premieres. If the strikes continue for an extended period, those may not be the last films to get pushed back. Thankfully, not every studio is abandoning the fall 2023 movie season. And while no one sees another Barbenheimer phenomenon on the horizon, there are some very intriguing films set to arrive in the months ahead.
A Haunting in Venice (September 15) The Expendables 4 (September 22) Dumb Money (September 29) Saw X (September 29) The Exorcist: Believer (October 6) Killers of the Flower Moon (October 20) Five Nights at Freddy’s (October 27) The Marvels (November 10) The Hunger Games: The Ballad of Songbirds & Snakes (November 17) Next Goal Wins (November 17) We’ve narrowed down our selections to the 10 most anticipated movies of fall 2023. These are the films that are worth seeing on the big screen instead of waiting for them to hit the streamers. There’s not much in the way of romance, but fans of mysteries, superheroes, action, historical dramas, and horror are going to be very happy this fall.
A Haunting in Venice (September 15) The adventures of Hercule Poirot and his incredible moustache continue in A Haunting in Venice , an adaptation of Agatha Christie’s novel, Hallowe’en Party.
 Kenneth Branagh is back as both the director and the star, as he reprises his role as Poirot for one of the detective’s strangest cases.
Fall 2023 movie guide Poirot is always up for a good mystery, but he may have found his way into a ghost story when a séance ends with a murder. Once again, Branagh has lined up a dynamic supporting cast including Tina Fey, Michelle Yeoh, Kyle Allen, Jamie Dornan, and Camille Cottin.
A Haunting in Venice opens in theaters on Friday, September 15.
The Expendables 4 (September 22) Action heroes don’t just get old, they get really old. But that’s part of the fun of the Expendables movies. Sylvester Stallone found a way to bring together action stars from multiple eras in his own franchise, and now he’s passing the torch off to Jason Statham in The Expendables 4.
 Or Expend4bles , as the studio prefers to stylize it. Regardless, this is the last appearance of Stallone’s Barney Ross, as Lee Christmas (Statham) takes over the team for yet another clandestine mission with global stakes.
Veterans Dolph Lundgren and Randy Couture are also back alongside the Expendables’ newest member, Easy Day (Curtis “50 Cent” Jackson). But the film’s biggest addition may be Christmas’ girlfriend, Gina (Megan Fox), a CIA agent who happens to have secret missions of her own.
The Expendables 4 opens in theaters on Friday, September 22.
Dumb Money (September 29) Do you remember the GameStop short squeeze? The short version is that amateur investors found a way to briefly make a fortune off of GameStop’s stocks while also sticking it to rich stockbrokers and hedge funds. Unfortunately for many, their newfound wealth was fleeting at best. Director Craig Gillespie’s Dumb Money dramatizes that story with a stellar lineup of performers, including Paul Dano, Pete Davidson, Vincent D’Onofrio, America Ferrera, Nick Offerman, Anthony Ramos, Sebastian Stan, Shailene Woodley, and Seth Rogen. This was a wild story in real life, and it’s only bound to get wilder on the big screen.
Dumb Money opens in theaters on Friday, September 29.
Saw X (September 29) This movie is called Saw X because Saw 1.5 just doesn’t have the same ring to it. Regardless, this is a rare midquel that isn’t going direct-to-video or streaming. That’s because the Saw franchise’s original Jigsaw killer, John Kramer (Tobin Bell), is back in this previously untold story. When facing the end of his life from a tumor in his head, John turns to Cecilia Pederson (Synnøve Macody Lund), an Elizabeth Holmes-like figure who claims to be able to cure him.
Of course, this turns out to be a giant con. But rather than alert the authorities in Mexico, John decides to go full Jigsaw on Pederson and everyone else who deceived him by placing them in torture devices. The key to Jigsaw’s games is that they are always survivable, but only if his victims are willing to make a major sacrifice. And this time, John’s got some righteous fury aimed toward people who really deserve their comeuppance.
Saw X opens in theaters on Friday, September 29.
The Exorcist: Believer (October 6) In 2018, Blumhouse Productions and Universal Pictures revitalized the Halloween franchise with the first of three sequels that ignored every other movie but the first Halloween.
 Now, Blumhouse and Universal trying to pull off the same trick for The Exorcist.
 The new film, The Exorcist: Believer , is set 50 years after the original, and it begins when two young girls fall prey to demonic possession. With their parents at a loss, they turn to Chris MacNeil (who is once again played by Ellen Burstyn) for her expertise in dealing with possession.
During the first film, Chris’ daughter, Regan (Linda Blair), was possessed by a powerful demon, and it cost the lives of two priests to free her from evil. It would have made more sense for Blair to return for this film, and it’s unclear why she isn’t in the movie. For now, we’ll just have to see how the sequel deals with that notable absence.
The Exorcist: Believer opens in theaters on Friday, October 6.
Killers of the Flower Moon (October 20) Here’s a history lesson that should never be forgotten. In the 1920s, the Osage tribe in Oklahoma were the targets of a conspiracy that was meant to kill as many of them as possible. And these murders weren’t just driven by racism — they were part of a campaign to steal the oil that had been found on the Osage land.
In Martin Scorsese’s Killers of the Flower Moon , Leonardo DiCaprio’s Ernest Burkhart finds himself in the middle of this murderous undertaking. Ernest is married to an Osage woman named Mollie (Lily Gladstone), but his uncle, William Hale (Robert De Niro), is the one who has orchestrated the killings. And even Ernest doesn’t seem to know where his loyalties lie.
Killers of the Flower Moon opens in theaters on Friday, October 20.
Five Nights at Freddy’s (October 27) If there was ever a place that shouldn’t have a “bring your daughter to work day,” it’s Freddy Fazbear’s Pizza. Blumhouse and Universal are bringing the hit video game series Five Nights at Freddy ‘s to theaters this Halloween weekend. And it’s gonna be a scream.
The Hunger Games ‘ Josh Hutcherson stars as Mike Schmidt, a security guard who is so down on his luck that he has to take his young daughter, Abby Schmidt (Piper Rubio), with him to the abandoned Freddy Fazbear’s Pizza location he’s been hired to watch on his overnight shifts.
As in the games, the animatronic creatures – Freddy Fazbear, Bonnie, Chica, and Foxy – come to life after midnight, and they’ll kill anyone they catch in the restaurant. Freddy and his malevolent gang also take a special interest in Abby in order to complete their evil plans.
Five Nights at Freddy’s will open in theaters on Friday, October 27.
The Marvels (November 10) Straight from the post-credits scene of Ms. Marvel and the mid-credits scene of WandaVision , the sequel to Captain Marvel finds Carol Danvers (Brie Larson) reunited with Monica Rambeau (Teyonah Parris), and introduced to Ms. Marvel herself, Kamala Khan (Iman Vellani). Somehow, the powers of all three heroines have been intrinsically linked, and they switch places whenever they use their abilities, no matter how far away they are from each other.
While Kamala idolizes Carol, Monica’s feelings toward her unofficial aunt have cooled considerably in the decades since they last saw each other. But any lingering tensions will have to wait.
The Marvels is a Marvel movie, after all. And that means there will be bigger stakes than mere broken familial bonds and hard feelings.
The Marvels will open in theaters on Friday, November 10.
The Hunger Games: The Ballad of Songbirds & Snakes (November 17) You won’t find Jennifer Lawrence’s Katniss Everdeen in The Hunger Games: The Ballad of Songbirds & Snakes because this is a prequel story that is set decades before The Hunger Games.
 So instead of Katniss, the only major returning character is Coriolanus “Coryo” Snow, who was played by Donald Sutherland in the original films.
For this story, Tom Blyth portrays Snow, who is the reluctant mentor of Lucy Gray Baird ( Shazam! Fury of the Gods ‘ Rachel Zegler). But once Snow realizes that Lucy has a real chance at winning the 10th Hunger Games, he believes that she may be his ticket to the political power that he’s craved for his entire life. And all Lucy has to do to help Snow achieve his dream is to defeat and likely murder 23 young men and women whose own survival depends on their ability to kill her.
The Hunger Games: The Ballad of Songbirds & Snakes will open in theaters on Friday, November 17.
Next Goal Wins (November 17) After Thor: Love and Thunder leaned far too heavily into farce, perhaps it’s best if director Taika Waititi spends more time on actual comedies. Waititi’s latest film, Next Goal Wins , is loosely based on a real story. Michael Fassbender stars as Thomas Rongen, a soccer coach who has the unenviable task of transforming the American Samoa national team into a group that can qualify for the World Cup.
Coach Rongen really has his work cut out for him with this team of misfits. But let’s put it this way: Studios don’t usually make many sports movies that have downbeat endings, so you can probably guess how this is going to go. Waititi is a gifted filmmaker with a knack for comedy, so the humor and the heartfelt drama will be the big draw for this one.
Next Goal Wins will open in theaters on Friday, November 17.
Editors' Recommendations 5 theatrical movies you need to watch in October Action Comic Book Movies Marvel Sci-Fi Entertainment November has been a great month for movies at Netflix, with the premiere of David Fincher's The Killer, and recent box office hits like Insidious: The Red Door and Spider-Man: Across the Spider-Verse. This week, the new additions include The Impossible, a 2012 survival thriller that has already landed on the list of the 10 most popular movies on Netflix. For younger viewers, Minions is also heating up the charts despite the pending departure of the other films in the franchise at the end of the month.
There's only one holiday weekend left in November, so what's the best way to stay on top of everything new on Netflix? Why, we are, of course. Our list of the best movies on Netflix right now is updated every Friday, even on holiday weekends, so you can easily find something for every movie lover in your life.
Entertainment Summer is long over, and the fall season is in full swing. It's now late 2023, and just about everyone is subscribed to Netflix and Hulu. But would you be surprised if I told you one of the most underrated streaming services around is Tubi? The upstart streamer has tons of new and old TV shows from every decade and every genre imaginable. Want to watch the buzziest series that aired on Max? Tubi has it. Are you feeling nostalgic about that old movie or cartoon you used to watch as a kid in the '80s or '90s? Chances are, Tubi has it.
Tubi has so much content that it can be hard to choose which shows and films are worth your time. Digital Trends is here to help you sort out which ones are worth watching. Even though the streaming service is free, time is valuable, and no one wants to waste it watching subpar content.
Entertainment Rather than waiting for the Thanksgiving holiday weekend, Apple TV+ and Netflix dropped two of their biggest shows of the fall this week. Netflix's The Crown kicked off its sixth and final season with four new episodes, while the Apple TV+ Godzilla-adjacent series Monarch: Legacy of Monster, dropped its first two episodes this week, with new episodes arriving weekly thereafter. Also this week, Scott Pilgrim Takes Off hits Netflix, while Max gets in on the act this week by premiering the second season of Julia.
Netflix, Amazon Prime Video, Hulu, Max, Apple TV+, Disney+, Paramount+, and Peacock still have new shows coming for the rest of November, including a handful arriving next week. But if you've been thinking about cutting back on your streaming bill, then perhaps you should consider signing up for the ad-supported tiers. In the meantime, keep reading for our weekly roundup of the best new shows to stream.
When you're done here, check out the best new movies to stream this week, as well as the best shows on Netflix, best shows on Hulu, best shows on Amazon Prime Video, and best shows on Disney+.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
