Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Does John Wick Die? John Wick 4 Streaming Date John Wick 4 Review Home Entertainment Guides The 10 most popular movies of 2023 By Dan Girolamo , David Caballero and Jason Struss Close The COVID-19 pandemic greatly affected the box office, to the point where many doubted it would ever return to the levels achieved pre-2020. However, 2023 has proven that audiences are ready to return to the movie theater. Yes, the movies are back, with the domestic box office exploding thanks to juggernauts like The Super Mario Bros. Movie and the Barbenheimer phenomenon.
10. Sound of Freedom ($164 million) 9. Indiana Jones and the Dial of Destiny ($170.7 million) 8. John Wick: Chapter 4 ($187.1 million) 7. Ant-Man and the Wasp: Quantumania ($214.5 million) 6. Oppenheimer ($228.9 million) 5. The Little Mermaid ($297.1 million) 4. Guardians of the Galaxy Vol. 3 ($358.9 million) 3. Spider-Man: Across the Spider-verse ($380 million) 2. Barbie ($459.3 million) 1. The Super Mario Bros. Movie ($574.1 million) We are halfway through 2023, and most of the year’s biggest releases have already come out. Bar a few promising films like the usual Marvel and DC fare, Denis Villeneuve’s sci-fi blockbuster Dune: Part Two , and (possibly) Paul King’s holiday musical Wonka , chances are the films currently in the domestic Top 10 are probably the same ones we’ll see at the end of the year. So what are the films that dominated the year’s domestic box office? From long-running franchises to new and promising IPs and even a few auteur efforts, the most popular films of 2023 are a healthy mix of everything.
Note: U.S. domestic box office grosses come via Box Office Mojo on August 8. The list only includes films released in 2023.
The 10 most popular movies on Max right now The 10 best movies of 2023 so far 7 movies in March 2023 you need to watch now 10. Sound of Freedom ($164 million) Angel Studios There’s no bigger surprise at the box office this year than Sound of Freedom.
 Released by neophyte distributor Angel Studios, Sound of Freedom stars Jim Caviezel as Tim Ballard, a former special agent for Homeland Security Investigations who embarks on a mission to find a young girl abducted by child traffickers in the Colombian jungle. The film is based on the true story of Ballard and the creation of the anti-sex-trafficking organization known as Operation Underground Railroad.
How did this movie beat the likes of Tom Cruise, Transformers, and the latest Fast and Furious movie ? Well, the studio employed a controversial “pay it forward” tactic where it encouraged large groups, primarily faith-based groups, to purchase additional tickets and make them available to use for other people free of charge. Even if those “free” tickets aren’t redeemed, they still count as a purchase, which could explain why this $14.5 million film could beat the likes of Vin Diesel and Cruise’s Ethan Hunt.
Sound of Freedom is playing in theaters.
9. Indiana Jones and the Dial of Destiny ($170.7 million) Lucasfilm / Lucasfulm/Disney Disney proved the fifth time wasn’t the charm with Indiana Jones and the Dial of Destiny.
 In this latest (and last) entry in the long-running adventure series, Indy’s a much older man who is trying to adjust to the changing times in 1969. But when some of his old Nazi foes reemerge, Indiana Jones will once again step up to save the world and reunite with some old friends along the way.
Dial of Destiny isn’t bad like Kingdom of the Crystal Skull was, but its bloated $300 million budget isn’t really reflected on the screen, so it never had a chance to properly succeed at the box office and become the grand finale everyone involved wanted it to be. Action movies with grumpy 80-year old leads aren’t that much in demand these days, and Dial of Destiny ‘s blah box office guarantees Harrison Ford will never have to pick up that iconic fedora hat and whip ever again.
Indiana Jones and the Dial of Destiny is now playing in theaters.
8. John Wick: Chapter 4 ($187.1 million) Image used with permission by copyright holder I’m running out of adjectives to describe the awesomeness of John Wick: Chapter 4.
 Franchises should not be improving with their fourth installment, but that’s the case in Chapter 4 , where John ( The Matrix’s Keanu Reeves) is hell-bent on bringing the High Table to its knees, one bullet at a time. Thanks to a proposal from Winston ( Deadwood’s Ian McShane), John sees an opportunity to get out of the criminal underworld.
If he defeats the Marquis Vincent de Gramont ( It’s Bill Skarsgård), a senior member of the High Table, in a duel, then John will earn his freedom. Getting to the duel may prove quite difficult as hundreds of assassins try to take out John and earn the large bounty that comes with it.
John Wick: Chapter 4 is an achievement in action filmmaking and should be viewed on the biggest screen possible.
John Wick: Chapter 4 is now available digitally and on demand.
7. Ant-Man and the Wasp: Quantumania ($214.5 million) Image used with permission by copyright holder It would not be a list about the box office without some Marvel Cinematic Universe movies. The biggest MCU film released in 2023 is Ant-Man and the Wasp: Quantumania , the third film in the Ant-Man trilogy. The stakes have been raised in Quantumania as Scott Lang ( The Shrink Next Door’s Paul Rudd), Hope van Dyne ( Lost’s Evangeline Lilly), and company are transported to the Quantum Realm. In the minuscule dimension, Scott meets Kang the Conqueror ( Lovecraft Country’s Jonathan Majors), a time-traveling supervillain positioned as the next Thanos-type villain for Marvel moving forward.
As the first film in Phase 5 of the MCU, Quantumania teases Marvel’s Multiverse Saga’s one overarching story, similar to the Infinity Saga. Despite grossing over $200 million domestically, Ant-Man and the Wasp: Quantumania has underperformed at the box office and received the lowest CinemaScore in the MCU’s history.
Guardians of the Galaxy Vol. 3 restored the Marvel brand with its successful release in May, so maybe Quantumania was just a blemish on an otherwise flawless cinematic record.
Ant-Man and the Wasp: Quantumania is now available on Disney+.
6. Oppenheimer ($228.9 million) Image via Universal Pictures Christopher Nolan returns to the big screen after a two-year absence with his biographical masterpiece Oppenheimer.
 Nolan’s longtime collaborator Cillian Murphy takes on the titular role — his first time leading part of the director’s films — alongside a large ensemble that includes Matt Damon, Emily Blunt, Florence Pugh, and Robert Downey Jr. The plot follows Oppenheimer’s life, focusing on his involvement with the Manhattan Project and the 1954 security hearing that resulted in the revocation of his security clearance.
Oppenheimer might be Christopher Nolan’s best film to date.
 The film has received universal acclaim from critics and audiences, with many believing it will finally take Nolan to the Dolby Theater’s stage. Impressively, the film has also been a massive commercial success, grossing $228 million at the domestic box office so far. With $300 million in sight and no real competition on the horizon, who knows how far Oppenheimer will go? Only time will tell, but things look promising for the lauded biopic.
Oppenheimer is now in theaters.
5. The Little Mermaid ($297.1 million) Walt Disney Studios Academy Award nominee Rob Marshall ventured under the sea to bring the timeless story of The Little Mermaid to live action. Halle Bailey stars as Ariel, an intrepid mermaid fascinated by the human world. After saving a handsome prince from drowning and becoming infatuated with him, Ariel makes a deal with Ursula, the sea witch , receiving a pair of human legs in exchange for her beautiful voice. Jonah Hauer-King, Javier Bardem, and Melissa McCarthy also star.
The Little Mermaid faced unfair scrutiny due to Bailey’s casting. However, the film rallied at the box office, grossing $297 million domestically and $269 internationally for a total of $566 million worldwide. The film received mostly positive reviews, particularly for Bailey’s star-making performance. However, The Little Mermaid was not the smashing success many hoped it would be, suggesting that Disney’s live-action adaptations might have finally overstayed their welcome with audiences.
The Little Mermaid is now available digitally and on demand.
4. Guardians of the Galaxy Vol. 3 ($358.9 million) Image via Marvel Studios James Gunn’s Marvel swan song dazzled critics and audiences alike.
Guardians of the Galaxy Vol. 3 sees the return of everyone’s favorite a-holes, who must face the deranged and cruel High Evolutionary while on a quest to save Rocket’s life. Chris Pratt, Zoe Saldaña, Dave Bautista, Vin Diesel, Bradley Cooper, Karen Gillan, Pom Klementieff, and Sean Gunn reprise their roles as the titular team, joined by Will Poulter as Adam Warlock and Chukwudi Iwuji as the High Evolutionary.
Just when it seemed the MCU’s glory days were behind it, Guardians of the Galaxy Vol. 3 arrived to prove there’s still life in the Marvel machine. The film received near-universal praise from critics and was a certified box office success, grossing $845 million worldwide and ending Gunn’s time at Marvel on a high note. The film is a bittersweet and surprisingly dark send-off for the Guardians that features the best Marvel villain since Thanos and an emotional, yet uplifting message that confirms there’s more to comic book movies than loud explosions and men in spandex.
Guardians of the Galaxy Vol. 3 is now streaming on Disney+.
3. Spider-Man: Across the Spider-verse ($380 million) Image via Sony Pictures Animation The long-awaited sequel to the 2018 Oscar-winning animated triumph Spider-Man: Into the Spider-Verse , Spider-Man: Across the Spider-Verse features the return of the beloved Miles Morales. The film follows Miles as he meets the Spider-Society, led by Miguel O’Hara/Spider-Man 2099, and comes into conflict with them and a new villain, the Spot. The voice cast includes Shameik Moore, Hailee Steinfeld, Brian Tyree Henry, Jake Johnson, Jason Schwartzman, and Oscar Isaac.
Praised for its originality, humor, heart, and stunning animation, Spider-Man: Across the Spider-Verse did what most sequels fail to do: it surpassed its predecessor. The film also outperformed the first one, nearly duplicating its international gross while earning $683 million worldwide — more than half of which came from the domestic box office. A third film, Spider-Man: Beyond the Spider-Verse , has already been announced, but was recently delayed due to the ongoing SAG-AFTRA/WGA strikes.
Spider-Man: Across the Spider-Verse is now available digitally and on demand.
2. Barbie ($459.3 million) Warner Bros. Pictures Greta Gerwig’s Barbie is undoubtedly the biggest film of 2023. Oscar nominees Margot Robbie and Ryan Gosling star in the movie, based on Mattel’s revered doll, playing Barbie and her perennial and underappreciated companion, Ken. The plot centers on Stereotypical Barbie, whose peaceful life in Barbieland is disrupted by a sudden existential crisis. Accompanied by Ken, Barbie ventures into the real world to find the source of her pain.
Barbie has defied every expectation, grossing over a billion internationally and receiving glowing reviews. The film handles potentially thorny subjects with delicacy and humor, proving that films can have a strong political angle and still appeal to worldwide audiences.
Barbie has its sights on The Super Mario Bros. Movie ‘s $574 million domestic and $779 internationally — can the spirited doll climb her way to the top? Things are looking good, and with no competition in sight, Mario might be flattened by Barbie’s pink heel.
Barbie is now in theaters.
1. The Super Mario Bros. Movie ($574.1 million) Universal Pictures / Universal “It’s-a me, Mario!” Fewer words bring such joy across generations as those uttered by everyone’s favorite Koopa-stomping, inter-dimensional traveling Italian plumber. And judging from its first three weeks of release, audiences couldn’t get enough of The Super Mario Bros. Movie, even if the critical reception has been lukewarm at best.
After an initial outcry over the casting of the non-Italian Chris Pratt for the very Italian role of Mario, fans seem to have gotten in line to fall in love with every trailer, clip, and image that has been released so far. Aside from Pratt, the vocal cast is stellar, with Charlie Day as Luigi, Jack Black as Bowser, The Menu ‘s Anya Taylor-Joy as Princess Peach, and Seth Rogen as Donkey Kong. The movie is fan service in the best possible way, with enough Rainbow Roads, Thwomps, and Warp Zones to satisfy nostalgic older fans and young kids alike. In a crowded animated landscape filled with Pusses in Boots and little mischievous Minions, The Super Mario Bros. Movie stands out as 2023’s biggest blockbuster domestically and worldwide.
The Super Mario Bros. Movie is now available on Peacock.
Editors' Recommendations 5 best horror movies of 2023 so far The 5 best action movies of 2023 so far 7 most disappointing 2023 movies so far Action Cellular Carriers Entertainment November has been a great month for movies at Netflix, with the premiere of David Fincher's The Killer, and recent box office hits like Insidious: The Red Door and Spider-Man: Across the Spider-Verse. This week, the new additions include The Impossible, a 2012 survival thriller that has already landed on the list of the 10 most popular movies on Netflix. For younger viewers, Minions is also heating up the charts despite the pending departure of the other films in the franchise at the end of the month.
There's only one holiday weekend left in November, so what's the best way to stay on top of everything new on Netflix? Why, we are, of course. Our list of the best movies on Netflix right now is updated every Friday, even on holiday weekends, so you can easily find something for every movie lover in your life.
Entertainment Summer is long over, and the fall season is in full swing. It's now late 2023, and just about everyone is subscribed to Netflix and Hulu. But would you be surprised if I told you one of the most underrated streaming services around is Tubi? The upstart streamer has tons of new and old TV shows from every decade and every genre imaginable. Want to watch the buzziest series that aired on Max? Tubi has it. Are you feeling nostalgic about that old movie or cartoon you used to watch as a kid in the '80s or '90s? Chances are, Tubi has it.
Tubi has so much content that it can be hard to choose which shows and films are worth your time. Digital Trends is here to help you sort out which ones are worth watching. Even though the streaming service is free, time is valuable, and no one wants to waste it watching subpar content.
Entertainment Rather than waiting for the Thanksgiving holiday weekend, Apple TV+ and Netflix dropped two of their biggest shows of the fall this week. Netflix's The Crown kicked off its sixth and final season with four new episodes, while the Apple TV+ Godzilla-adjacent series Monarch: Legacy of Monster, dropped its first two episodes this week, with new episodes arriving weekly thereafter. Also this week, Scott Pilgrim Takes Off hits Netflix, while Max gets in on the act this week by premiering the second season of Julia.
Netflix, Amazon Prime Video, Hulu, Max, Apple TV+, Disney+, Paramount+, and Peacock still have new shows coming for the rest of November, including a handful arriving next week. But if you've been thinking about cutting back on your streaming bill, then perhaps you should consider signing up for the ad-supported tiers. In the meantime, keep reading for our weekly roundup of the best new shows to stream.
When you're done here, check out the best new movies to stream this week, as well as the best shows on Netflix, best shows on Hulu, best shows on Amazon Prime Video, and best shows on Disney+.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
