Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix F1 Live Stream Stranger Things Season 5 Best New Movies Most Popular Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney+ UFC Live Stream Best Movies on Disney+ Home Entertainment Guides Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? 5 Sylvester Stallone movies you should watch in September By Blair Marnell Close For decades, Sylvester Stallone has been an action icon in Hollywood. However, at 77 years old, even Stallone has to slow down sometime. Later this month, The Expendables 4 will mark Stallone’s final appearance in the franchise, and possibly his last action movie as well. Regardless of whether it is or isn’t Stallone’s swan song, no one can dispute his contributions to cinema. He wrote and starred in Rocky , which won Best Picture at the 1976 Oscars and spawned a movie franchise that continues to this day with Creed III.
 Stallone also headlined the Rambo franchise and showed off his dramatic chops in films like Cop Land.
 He even starred in comedies like Oscar , Tango & Cash , and the relentlessly silly Stop! Or My Mom Will Shoot.
First Blood (1982) Cobra (1986) Cliffhanger (1993) Demolition Man (1993) The Expendables (2010) Since Stallone may finally be done with action, we’ve decided to focus on those types of films when deciding the five Sylvester Stallone movies you should watch in September. He starred in some really great action movies, and that’s one of the reasons why his cinematic legend will endure.
First Blood (1982) Orion Pictures There are five Rambo movies, but the original film, First Blood , has the superior story because it feels like it has something more real to convey. In this adaptation of David Morrell’s novel, John Rambo (Stallone) is a Vietnam veteran who is traumatized by both his experiences during the war and by the mistreatment he receives when he comes back to America. After he is harassed and arrested by Sheriff William “Will” Teasle (Brian Dennehy) and tortured by Teasle’s deputy, Art Galt (Jack Starrett), Rambo goes berserk and escapes from jail.
5 movies like Netflix’s The Killer you should watch right now 5 Matthew Perry movies and TV shows you should watch besides Friends One of 2023’s best-reviewed movies is now on Netflix. Here’s why you should watch it Rambo does his best to refrain from killing the police officers and deputies who pursue him, but they’ve pushed him too far. As Rambo says in the movie, they drew first blood, and that’s something they will live to regret. No one will claim First Blood is one of the best war movies ever made , but it is an entertaining watch.
Buy or rent First Blood on Google Play , Prime Video , YouTube , and Apple TV+.
Cobra (1986) Warner Bros. Pictures Upon its release, Cobra was savaged by critics for using so many familiar action tropes. But in the ensuing decades, it has been celebrated as a cult classic and one of the quintessential action movies of the ’80s. Stallone plays Lt. Marion “Cobra” Cobretti, a member of the LAPD who finds himself on the forefront of a battle against a domestic terrorist group known as The New World.
When model Ingrid Knudsen (Brigitte Nielsen) personally witnesses The New World’s leader, the Night Slasher (Brian Thompson), commit murder alongside his followers, she is placed in the protective custody of Cobretti and his partner, Sergeant Tony Gonzales (Reni Santoni). However, the Night Slasher has a mole in the police department, and Cobretti can’t hide Ingrid forever.
Buy or rent Cobra on Google Play , Prime Video , YouTube , and Apple TV+.
Cliffhanger (1993) TriStar Pictures Stallone’s early ’90s resurgence included the leading role in Cliffhanger , a film in which he portrays a Ranger named Gabriel “Gabe” Walker. During the movie’s opening minutes, Gabe tries and fails to save Sarah (Michelle Joyner), the girlfriend of his best friend, Harold “Hal” Tucker (Michael Rooker), during a botched mountain rescue in the Rockies. Eight months later, a dispirited Gabe is willing to leave the mountain life behind him regardless of whether his girlfriend, Jessica “Jessie” Deighan (Janine Turner), comes with him or not.
But before Gabe can take off, he and Jessie accompany Hal on a distress call to the mountains, only to discover that they were deceived by Eric Qualen (John Lithgow), the mastermind behind a U.S. Treasury robbery. And if Gabe and his team don’t agree to help Qualen retrieve the missing cash that was lost in the mountains, then he will kill them all. Somehow, Gabe has to find a way to escape and get his friends safely off the mountain.
Watch Cliffhanger on Netflix.
Demolition Man (1993) Warner Bros. Pictures While Demolition Man was released in 1993, most of the film was set in the then-far-off year of 2032. We haven’t quite reached the peak dystopia as seen in that movie, but John Spartan (Stallone) would probably still feel like a fish out of water in 2023. Back in the ’90s, serial killer Simon Phoenix (Wesley Snipes) framed Spartan for killing his hostages. Consequently, both men are sentenced to decades of cryogenic hibernation and reeducation. But when Phoenix escapes from custody four decades later, the modern police of 2032 just can’t handle his savagery.
Lenina Huxley (Sandra Bullock) has the novel idea of releasing Spartan from hibernation to counter Phoenix’s plans. Unfortunately for Spartan, most of the world has passed him by. But if there’s one thing Spartan knows, it’s how to be a cop.
Buy or rent Demolition Man on Google Play , Prime Video , YouTube , and Apple TV+.
The Expendables (2010) Lionsgate In the later stages of his career, Stallone came up with The Expendables as a way to bring many of the action stars of the past and present together in the same movie. With Stallone in the lead, of course. Barney Ross (Stallone) is the leader of a team of mercenaries called the Expendables, which includes Lee Christmas ( Jason Statham, in one of his best action movies ), Yin Yang (Jet Li), Toll Road (Randy Couture), Hale Caesar (Terry Crews), and Gunner Jensen (Dolph Lundgren). Stallone even lined up Bruce Willis and Arnold Schwarzenegger for cameos as Mr. Church and Trench Mauser, respectively.
Shortly after Jensen is thrown off the team for his mental instability, Ross accepts a mission to take down a dictator named General Garza (David Zayas). But the real operation is to stop rogue CIA agent James Munroe (Eric Roberts), who is the power behind Garza’s reign.
Watch The Expendables on Netflix and Peacock.
Editors' Recommendations 5 best death game movies you should watch right now 5 movies to watch if you liked The Marvels 5 Reese Witherspoon movies you should watch in November 5 movies like Five Nights at Freddy’s you should watch right now 5 best sci-fi movies from the past 5 years you should watch right now Action Entertainment It's officially spooky season, meaning it's finally time to binge as many horror movies as we can get our hands on.
One of the best parts of the Halloween season is celebrating with scary movies whether they feature goofy ghouls or bloody slashers. Unfortunately, this October doesn't have many big-time horror movies coming to theaters, though. The largest horror release would go to Five Nights at Freddy's on October 27, but the rest of the theater slate leaves much to be desired for horror fans. Thankfully, though, various streaming services are loading up their platforms with spooky hits to satiate our desires.
Entertainment The Assassination of Jesse James by the Coward Robert Ford Warner Bros.
After years of anticipation, Martin Scorsese’s latest movie, Killers of the Flower Moon, is finally here. The film, an adaptation of David Grann’s 2017 nonfiction novel of the same name, explores the real-life murders that were carried out against members of the Osage Nation after oil was discovered under their lands in 1920s Oklahoma. Running 206 minutes long and starring Scorsese mainstays like Leonardo DiCaprio and Robert De Niro, as well as a quietly transcendent Lily Gladstone, the drama is a chilling exploration of greed, systemic racism, and white supremacy.
Entertainment Every month, new movies arrive on Netflix and become some of the most popular movies on the service. October marked the anticipated debut of Fair Play, an erotic thriller starring Phoebe Dynevor and Alden Ehrenreich. A pair of Jordan Peele films – Get Out and Us – are now streaming as of last week. Later this month, David Yates' Pain Hustlers with Emily Blunt and Chris Evans arrives on October 20.
Unfortunately, not every movie can stay on Netflix. As new movies are added, a group of films will leave Netflix by the end of the month. Don't miss out on some of these classic films. Here are five movies leaving Netflix at the end of October that you need to watch. Our suggestions include an iconic teen comedy, an early Tarantino staple, and a gritty L.A. thriller.
Ferris Bueller's Day Off (1986) Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
