Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix F1 Live Stream Stranger Things Season 5 Best New Movies Most Popular Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney+ UFC Live Stream Best Movies on Disney+ Home Entertainment Guides 7 unpopular opinions about great TV shows By Anthony Orlando Close When a show achieves enough acclaim and popularity, it’s hard to hear a person say something most audiences don’t agree with. But there are always some opposing views that get buried by the overwhelming majority.
The main characters got worse to watch (Seinfeld) The show is better without Gina (Brooklyn Nine-Nine) The story is boring (Andor) The finale isn’t that bad (Game of Thrones) Chandler should’ve ended up with Kathy (Friends) Jackie and Fez should’ve stayed a couple (That ’70s Show) The cringe humor ruins the show (The Office) Nevertheless, even the most beloved stories have flaws that shouldn’t just get brushed aside by those who see them through rose-colored glasses. With that in mind, here are some unpopular opinions about these overall great shows.
The main characters got worse to watch (Seinfeld) NBC / NBC Jerry, George, Elaine, and Kramer are some of the most recognizable characters to appear on TV, and their humorous antics made them a smash hit across Seinfeld ‘ s nine seasons. While they started as four lovable friends going through the motions in a confusing world, they all changed for the worse as time passed. Jerry turned into an unsympathetic jerk with little care over what was happening around him. Similarly, Elaine lost her distinctive morals and devolved into a cynical and mean-spirited woman.
5 movies and TV shows about the Boogeyman that you need to watch The show’s charm always came from the flawed protagonists learning nothing from their experiences, but they were still likable and relatable people in the earlier seasons. As a result, the way became so self-centered and mean-spirited dissolved that charm in the later seasons, reaching an apex in the series finale when they watched and laughed at an obese man getting mugged.
The show is better without Gina (Brooklyn Nine-Nine) NBC / NBC The 99’s Gina Linetti may have been a popular character amongst fans. However, her outstanding narcissism and selfish antics often made her an insufferable annoyance during her tenure on the show, and the fact that she gets away with everything without consequence made her character more irritating.
On top of that, the show seemed to hardly know what to do with her in later seasons, as exemplified by how she and Boyle’s cousin had a child in a storyline that went nowhere, very much flying over viewers’ heads. One would hardly even notice that she wasn’t in the show’s 99th-anniversary episode. All in all, Gina just seemed to fade into the background until she finally left the show, and her departure didn’t seem to take much away from its success.
The story is boring (Andor) Disney / Disney Despite not focusing on the Jedi, the Sith, or the Mandalorians, Andor has become one of the most beloved and grounded Star Wars shows in recent years. While its story is deep and more mature, at times, it just isn’t that interesting, and many characters don’t stand out from each other. Remember those boring Senate meetings from The Phantom Menace ? This show basically stretches those out across twelve episodes, and it’s easy to check out after a few episodes. Even if the show is meant to explore the banality of evil within the Galactic Empire, much of the story doesn’t make for exciting TV entertainment.
The finale isn’t that bad (Game of Thrones) Helen Sloan/HBO / Helen Sloan/HBO Yes, the finale didn’t satisfy everyone’s expectations, but fans of the show know that it has never been one for giving them the story they want to see.
The Red Wedding is a prime example of how the show is willing to take risks with its narrative despite any backlash from audiences.
Sure, Daenerys’s descent into villainy may have been sudden, but it still seemed like that’s where she would’ve ended up, as there’s always been a lethal darkness brewing inside of her that reached the surface as her power and isolation increased. Also, Jon clearly didn’t want to be king of Westeros, so his banishment from the Seven Kingdoms and Bran taking the throne actually gave the former the freedom he always wanted.
Chandler should’ve ended up with Kathy (Friends) NBC / NBC In season 4, Paige Brewster joined Friends as Joey’s actor girlfriend, Kathy, whom Chandler falls in love with. They realize their mutual love for each other and kiss, which drives a wedge between Chandler and Joey for a short time. But even after they finally start dating, Chandler suspects her of cheating with her costar after seeing them perform in an explicitly sexual play, and it’s Chandler’s insecure fears that drive her to cheat on him in the end.
While the characters often walk in and out of romantic relationships in the show, Kathy was special. She had terrific chemistry with Chandler, and it truly felt like she and him were a perfect match, probably more so than him and Monica. Even so, the writers could have at least executed Chandler’s breakup with Kathy a lot better, as having her cheat on Chandler out of spite seems to have assassinated her character, which made her hectic storyline with Chandler and Joey seem like it was all for nothing.
Jackie and Fez should’ve stayed a couple (That ’70s Show) Fox / Fox Jackie and Fez always had a romance burning between them. Since the series began, it seemed like Fez was chasing an impossible romance with an idealized version of Jackie, and their questionable treatment of each other long kept them from being the right match.
However, the way the two of them matured throughout the series made them much better candidates for each other, and they seemed ready to be a couple at the end of the series. The execution of their romantic arc in season 8 may have been messy, but Fez seemed like the best person Jackie could’ve ended up with, and her marrying Kelso before the events of That ’90s Show seems like a relapse for her character and an easy way to satisfy fans.
The cringe humor ruins the show (The Office) NBC / NBC The Office is known for its awkward moments and style of cringe humor, which has made the adventures of Dunder Mifflin Scranton an abject but relatable viewing experience.
But even in the show’s best episodes, Michael’s awkward and insensitive antics can make what is supposed to be a sitcom too hard to watch. Given how uncomfortable these episodes can be, it’s amazing how so many people have been able to go back and binge-watch them again and again over the years.
Editors' Recommendations 7 hilarious, but underrated sitcom moments you need to watch again Fantasy HBO Sci-Fi Entertainment November has been a great month for movies at Netflix, with the premiere of David Fincher's The Killer, and recent box office hits like Insidious: The Red Door and Spider-Man: Across the Spider-Verse. This week, the new additions include The Impossible, a 2012 survival thriller that has already landed on the list of the 10 most popular movies on Netflix. For younger viewers, Minions is also heating up the charts despite the pending departure of the other films in the franchise at the end of the month.
There's only one holiday weekend left in November, so what's the best way to stay on top of everything new on Netflix? Why, we are, of course. Our list of the best movies on Netflix right now is updated every Friday, even on holiday weekends, so you can easily find something for every movie lover in your life.
Entertainment Summer is long over, and the fall season is in full swing. It's now late 2023, and just about everyone is subscribed to Netflix and Hulu. But would you be surprised if I told you one of the most underrated streaming services around is Tubi? The upstart streamer has tons of new and old TV shows from every decade and every genre imaginable. Want to watch the buzziest series that aired on Max? Tubi has it. Are you feeling nostalgic about that old movie or cartoon you used to watch as a kid in the '80s or '90s? Chances are, Tubi has it.
Tubi has so much content that it can be hard to choose which shows and films are worth your time. Digital Trends is here to help you sort out which ones are worth watching. Even though the streaming service is free, time is valuable, and no one wants to waste it watching subpar content.
Entertainment Rather than waiting for the Thanksgiving holiday weekend, Apple TV+ and Netflix dropped two of their biggest shows of the fall this week. Netflix's The Crown kicked off its sixth and final season with four new episodes, while the Apple TV+ Godzilla-adjacent series Monarch: Legacy of Monster, dropped its first two episodes this week, with new episodes arriving weekly thereafter. Also this week, Scott Pilgrim Takes Off hits Netflix, while Max gets in on the act this week by premiering the second season of Julia.
Netflix, Amazon Prime Video, Hulu, Max, Apple TV+, Disney+, Paramount+, and Peacock still have new shows coming for the rest of November, including a handful arriving next week. But if you've been thinking about cutting back on your streaming bill, then perhaps you should consider signing up for the ad-supported tiers. In the meantime, keep reading for our weekly roundup of the best new shows to stream.
When you're done here, check out the best new movies to stream this week, as well as the best shows on Netflix, best shows on Hulu, best shows on Amazon Prime Video, and best shows on Disney+.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
