Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix F1 Live Stream Stranger Things Season 5 Best New Movies Most Popular Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney+ UFC Live Stream Best Movies on Disney+ Home Entertainment Guides Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? 5 action movies like The Expendables franchise By Dan Girolamo Close This weekend, The Expendables franchise returns to theaters with its fourth film, Expend4bles.
 The Expendables are an elite team of mercenaries led by Barney Ross (Sylvester Stallone) and his right-hand man, Lee Christmas (Jason Statham). In the fourth film, the Expendables are hired to stop a group of mercenaries from stealing nuclear weapons in Libya that will be used to start World War III.
Escape Plan (2013) Commando (1985) Red (2010) Triple Frontier (2019) Predator (1987) The Expendables movies are action thrillers featuring some of the most legendary actors in the genre, including Stallone, Statham, Arnold Schwarzenegger, Jet Li, Bruce Willis, Dolph Lundgren, Jean-Claude Van Damme, and UFC’s Randy Couture.
 They serve as a tribute to the action movies from the 1980s and 1990s. After watching all the Expendables movies , check out these five action films similar to The Expendables franchise, including a prison break thriller, a heist adventure, and a battle in the jungle.
Escape Plan (2013) Summit Entertainment Nothing will beat Stallone’s nearly two-decade run of being in great action movies from Rocky to Daylight.
 After the success of The Expendables in 2010, Stallone had a mini-resurgence in the action genre. One of the films, Escape Plan , saw Stallone team up with another iconic action hero and his Expendables 2 co-star, Arnold Schwarzenegger. Stallone stars as Ray Breslin, an ex-prosecutor who runs a security detail that tests the security of prisons. Ray purposely gets sent to prison to study its weaknesses before executing his escape.
The 5 best duos in action movies, ranked The 7 best Sylvester Stallone action movies, ranked Like Gran Turismo? Then you must watch these 5 movies However, Ray is double-crossed and sent to a high-tech prison where an escape seems impossible. With the help of fellow inmate Emil Rottmayer (Schwarzenegger), Ray hatches a plan to break free from the prison and catch the man who double-crossed him.
Stream Escape Plan on Sling TV.
Commando (1985) 20th Century Fox The Expendables films embrace comedy, a staple in many action films from the 1980s and 1990s. No one incorporated comedy into action movies during that timeframe better than Schwarzenegger, who put his comedic skills to the test in Commando.
 John Matrix (Schwarzenegger) is a retired Special Forces soldier who lives a quiet life in the mountains with his young daughter Jenny (Alyssa Milano). His peace is short-lived after a Latin American dictator hires mercenaries to kidnap Jenny and force Matrix to carry out an assassination plot.
However, Matrix escapes captivity and goes after the men who kidnapped his daughter, killing anyone who tries to stop him. Come for the action, but stay for Schwarzenegger’s memorable one-liners, like “ Let off some steam, Bennett, ” or “Don’t disturb my friend. He’s dead tired.” Stream Commando on Tubi.
Red (2010) Frank Masi / Summit Entertainment One of the appeals of the Expendables franchise is its use of the “men on a mission” trope. The Expendables are a team of charismatic and rambunctious characters brought together to complete one task, and along the way, they get to snap some necks and cash those checks.
Red , the 2010 action comedy based on the DC comics, channels those same vibes.
Frank Moses (Willis) is a retired CIA agent who now enjoys a quiet life in the suburbs. One night, an elite squad of hitmen attempts to kill Frank at his house, but the retiree manages to escape. Forced back into action, Frank rounds up his old squad – Joe (Morgan Freeman), Marvin (John Malkovich), and Victoria (Helen Mirren) – to track down the assassins and figure out why they want to kill him.
Stream Red on Prime Video.
Triple Frontier (2019) Netflix An action movie like The Expendables can be described with one phrase: guys being dudes. It’s about big muscles and a lot of guns. That phrase perfectly encapsulates Triple Frontier , the 2019 action-adventure film from director J. C. Chandor. The “guys” in Triple Frontier are Ben Affleck, Oscar Isaac, Charlie Hunnam, Garrett Hedlund, and Pedro Pascal.
The five men play former Special Forces operatives who reunite to steal $75 million in cash from a Colombian drug lord’s house in the jungle. For highly skilled soldiers, infiltrating the compound and seizing the money is easy. Escaping the country alive with mountains of cash as an entire cartel hunts you down is where problems arise.
Stream Triple Frontier on Netflix.
Predator (1987) 20th Century Fox A group of elite soldiers, led by Dutch (Schwarzenegger), are sent to the South American jungle to rescue a group of politicians. However, the soldiers soon learn that they are not alone. The soldiers are being hunted by a technologically advanced alien equipped with invisible armor and superhuman strength.
Predator is “ Jaws in the jungle.” Predator’s best asset is its simplicity. In his review of Predator , Roger Ebert wrote , “It has good location photography and terrific special effects, and it supplies what it claims to supply: an effective action movie.” The science behind the titular Predator doesn’t matter. It’s all about the action. Just sit back, relax, and watch Schwarzenegger go toe-to-toe with an alien in this sci-fi movie that’s perfect to watch in the summer.
Stream Predator on Max.
Editors' Recommendations 5 bad 2000s action movies that you still need to watch right now 5 best action movie directors, ranked 5 action movies that deserve a sequel 5 movies to watch if you like Red, White & Royal Blue 5 action movies on Tubi that are perfect to watch in the summer Action Entertainment It's been three months since HBO Max rebranded as Max, a streaming service that features movies and TV shows from Warner Bros. and Discovery. From The Batman and The Sopranos to Beat Bobby Flay and 90-Day Fiancé, Max has over 35,000 hours of content to keep you busy.
One of the more prominent sections of Max is sci-fi. To save you time, we selected a handful of films that may pique your sci-fi interest. From a James Cameron adventure to an Arnold Schwarzenegger classic, here are five sci-fi movies on Max to check out this summer.
Avatar: The Way of Water (2022) Entertainment If there's one genre that audiences never seem to get tired of, it's action movies. By comparison, there haven't been many big-screen comedies, sci-fi adventures, or fantasy flicks in 2023. But action films are in abundance, both in the streaming realm and in theaters. If you happen to love action like we do, this is a very good thing. And some of the action movies that hit theaters this year may be among the best of the last 10 years.
It may be a little premature to name any film as the best action movie of this year. But since we are currently almost seven-and-a-half months through the year, we can confidently say that the following films are the five best action movies of 2023 so far.
5. Extraction 2 Entertainment Blockbusters are not only reserved for the theater. On August 11, Netflix released a new global action spy thriller, Heart of Stone, starring Gal Gadot. The Wonder Woman actress stars as Rachel Stone, a skilled intelligence agent tasked with protecting "The Heart," a powerful AI capable of world domination. If you own the Heart, you control the world. When Keya Dhawan (Alia Bhatt) sets out to steal the Heart, Stone is tasked with stopping her to avoid the collapse of global stability.
Heart of Stone is the latest action blockbuster in Netflix's lineup. After watching Heart of Stone on Netflix, check out these five action movies to satisfy your craving for chase sequences, loud explosions, and killer fight scenes.
Extraction (2020) Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
