Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix F1 Live Stream Stranger Things Season 5 Best New Movies Most Popular Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney+ UFC Live Stream Best Movies on Disney+ Home Entertainment Guides All The Expendables movies, ranked By Blair Marnell Close The Expendables 4 has finally been released in theaters, and that makes this the perfect time to look back at all of The Expendables movies and rank them. There are only three movies that we’ve seen so far, which means that this won’t take too long to go over. The first movie came out in 2010, and it was the culmination of Sylvester Stallone’s efforts to create an ensemble film comprised of other action stars. Stallone co-wrote the film, directed it, and starred as Barney Ross, the leader of the Expendables.
3. The Expendables 3 (2014) 2. The Expendables (2010) 1. The Expendables 2 (2012) Stallone also recruited Jason Statham to portray Lee Christmas, with Jet Li as Yin Yang, Dolph Lundgren as Gunner Jensen, Randy Couture as Toll Road, and Terry Crews as Hale Caesar. With few exceptions, that team has largely remained intact in the subsequent films, with a few additions and subtractions to the cast. But the core idea has always remained in place, and this is a franchise that loves using action icons as both heroes and villains. And if The Expendables 4 is a success, then it’s an easy bet that there will be more sequels in the future.
3. The Expendables 3 (2014) Lionsgate The biggest complaint that people have about The Expendables 3 is that the action was toned down to a PG-13 level, and fans were not happy about that. It also sidelines the original team for an extended period in order for Ross to recruit the next generation of Expendables: Galgo (Antonio Banderas), Luna (Ronda Rousey), Smilee (Kellan Lutz), Thorn (Glen Powell), and Mars (Victor Ortiz). Note that none of the next gen Expendables are coming back for The Expendables 4.
All of David Fincher’s movies, ranked from worst to best 7 best action movie scores, ranked 7 biggest horror movie bombs of all time, ranked by adjusted box office losses If there’s one thing that The Expendables 3 has over the other films in the franchise it’s Mel Gibson’s Conrad Stonebanks, the cofounder of the Expendables who betrayed the team and became their greatest enemy. Gibson was the most convincing adversary that the Expendables have faced. Additionally, Harrison Ford joined the cast as the team’s CIA contact, Max Drummer. That was a nice bit of casting that we appreciate, it just wasn’t enough to place The Expendables 3 higher than the two previous films on this list.
Watch The Expendables 3 on Netflix.
2. The Expendables (2010) Lionsgate This is the one that started it all. In The Expendables , the team was rocked by the departure of Gunner Jensen (Lundgren), after his mental instability endangered them during a mission. Arnold Schwarzenegger had a cameo as Barney’s rival, Trench Mauser, but it was Bruce Willis’ Mr. Church who gave the team their mission to take down a dictator named General Garza (David Zayas).
Even some of the minor roles in this movie were played by recognizable action stars, including Mickey Rourke as a tattoo artist named Tool and Stone Cold Steve Austin as a henchman called Paine. Eric Roberts also had a primary role as James Munroe, a renegade CIA agent who was the real power behind Garza’s regime.
The Expendables wasn’t beloved by critics, but it gave fans pretty much everything they wanted from this team-up.
Watch The Expendables on Netflix until October 4.
1. The Expendables 2 (2012) Lionsgate Among fans of The Expendables films, The Expendables 2 is usually the consensus choice for the best in the franchise. It really has a lot going for it, including Jean-Claude Van Damme as the bad guy, who was not-so-subtly named Jean Vilain. Chuck Norris joined the team as Booker, while Liam Hemsworth appeared as Ross’ protégé, Billy the Kid. The film also gave the Expendables team personal stakes when one of their own was killed by Vilain.
As an additional touch that helps make this film the best in the series, Schwarzenegger and Willis both had larger roles in the sequel as Mauser and Church gave the team a much-needed assist late in the movie. Everything just seemed to come together for this one, and The Expendables 4 has an uphill battle to surpass it.
Watch The Expendables 2 on Netflix until October 4.
Editors' Recommendations The best MCU sequels, ranked The Marvels: Is it the worst MCU movie ever? All of The Conjuring Universe horror movies, ranked from worst to best All the Alien movies, ranked All The Exorcist movies & TV shows, ranked Action Entertainment Action heroes come in all different shapes and sizes. Some action heroes have big muscles (Alan "Dutch" Schaefer) and elite combat skills (John Rambo). Other action heroes rely on their bravery (Indiana Jones) and intelligence (Ethan Hunt). And if you're John McClane, your foul mouth will either make or break you.
The action heroes listed above are some of the most iconic characters of the last 50 years. But, for every legend, there is a dud on the opposite end of the spectrum. These disappointing action heroes failed for various reasons, from the performance and script to the premise and execution. These are the 10 worst action heroes.
10. The Guy - Spy Kids 3-D: Game Over (2003) Entertainment This weekend, Saw X is out in theaters and the latest sequel is keeping the legacy of Jigsaw alive. Or we could call it a "midquel" if you prefer, because the film's story is set between Saw and Saw II. Since the first movie's debut in 2004, Saw has proven to be one of the most resilient and best franchises in horror alongside The Conjuring and Insidious. Not even killing off the main character has prevented Lionsgate from revisiting Jigsaw and his apprentices again and again. The movies have even made Jigsaw's puppet, Billy (pictured above), into one of the franchise's most iconic creations.
Now that Saw X has arrived, this is the perfect opportunity to rank all 10 of the movies in the Saw franchise. There's definitely a dramatic drop in quality from the worst film to the very best. But it's also worth saying that Saw X offers some promising signs that the filmmakers may have finally recognized why the franchise was floundering and come up with some ideas as to how it might continue beyond its 20th anniversary next year.
10. Saw V (2008) Entertainment This weekend, The Expendables franchise returns to theaters with its fourth film, Expend4bles. The Expendables are an elite team of mercenaries led by Barney Ross (Sylvester Stallone) and his right-hand man, Lee Christmas (Jason Statham). In the fourth film, the Expendables are hired to stop a group of mercenaries from stealing nuclear weapons in Libya that will be used to start World War III.
The Expendables movies are action thrillers featuring some of the most legendary actors in the genre, including Stallone, Statham, Arnold Schwarzenegger, Jet Li, Bruce Willis, Dolph Lundgren, Jean-Claude Van Damme, and UFC's Randy Couture. They serve as a tribute to the action movies from the 1980s and 1990s. After watching all the Expendables movies, check out these five action films similar to The Expendables franchise, including a prison break thriller, a heist adventure, and a battle in the jungle.
Escape Plan (2013) Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
