Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix F1 Live Stream Stranger Things Season 5 Best New Movies Most Popular Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney+ UFC Live Stream Best Movies on Disney+ Home Entertainment Guides 7 best action movie scores, ranked By Joe Allen Close When you think of an action movie, the first thing you think of probably isn’t the score. You might think of the actors, the plot, or the set pieces, but underlying every great action movie is an equally great score. These scores help you understand what kind of movie you’re watching, and keep you locked into the biggest moments in some of the best action movies ever made.
7. Terminator 2: Judgment Day 6. Mission: Impossible – Fallout 5. Top Gun 4. Superman 3. Inception 2. Batman 1. Raiders of the Lost Ark A great action score should be engaging on its own, but it should also reinforce the movie around it. All of the scores on this list do exactly that, and they have at least one iconic theme you’re likely to recognize as well.
7. Terminator 2: Judgment Day The first Terminator movie laid down the template for what these movies could sound like, but it wasn’t until the hit sequel T2 that we were treated to the ideal Terminator soundtrack. Featuring the signature, drum-forward theme from the first movie, T2 ‘s soundtrack gives the entire movie a grander feel than it might have otherwise.
The 10 best characters in the Hunger Games movies, ranked The best MCU sequels, ranked All of David Fincher’s movies, ranked from worst to best You get the impression that this is the most important movie ever made, and Brad Fiedel’s music is a huge part of why. James Cameron knows how to make his movies feel huge, and the T2 score does just that.
6. Mission: Impossible – Fallout The iconic theme for Mission: Impossible dates all the way back to the original TV series, but Lorne Balfe’s score for this 2018 action masterpiece finds new ways to ramp up the tension that fuels these movies.
Fallout ‘s score combines that original theme with a suite of other pieces that perfectly underscore the movie’s many extended action sequences. In the quieter moments of the film, Balfe gives us a chance to breathe a little bit, but he knows exactly the right moments to begin working the audience back into a froth once again.
5. Top Gun The 1980s were a deeply strange time for film scores, which were often filled with synths and had largely ditched the orchestral themes that defined scores for decades.
In Top Gun ‘s case, though, Harold Faltermeyer’s synth- and guitar-heavy score proves to be the perfect fit for one of the defining movies of the decade.
Top Gun may not have the most coherent plot you’ve ever seen, but its score is a core part of the vibe that it manages to capture and perfectly communicate to the audience.
4. Superman Nobody writes a score quite like John Williams, which is why he’s the only composer with two entries on this list. His Superman theme set a high bar for what superhero scores could sound like. It’s filled with soaring trumpets that provide a wholesome, perfect backing for the original superhero.
Williams’ score works to make Superman feel even more like an American ideal. It’s hard to imagine a score that more completely captures the hope and uplift that the character is meant to inspire, so much so that it’s still the theme most associated with the character almost 50 years later.
3. Inception Whether you appreciate the way Inception , one of Christopher Nolan’s best movies , changed action scores or not, it’s hard to deny that this score is incredible in and of itself. The “BWAM”-heavy score is a huge part of what makes this movie work, as it provides a much-needed intensity and seriousness from the second the movie starts.
Hans Zimmer has been known to push the boundaries of what movie scores can sound like, and he’s never pushed harder than he did on Inception.
 Unfortunately, those who have attempted to imitate Zimmer’s approach have often fallen woefully short.
2. Batman Danny Elfman’s score for the original Batman is another great example of a score that perfectly matches the character its meant to describe. A much more sinister, complex theme than Williams’ Superman score, Elfman’s Batman score is the perfect combination of a superhero theme and the score for an excursion into Tim Burton’s imagination.
In a single theme, Elfman manages to take us from the feeling of sitting alone in the Batcave all the way to driving the Batmobile around Gotham.
Batman holds up as a classic, and its score is one of the main reasons for its enduring appeal.
1. Raiders of the Lost Ark Steven Spielberg’s regular collaborations with John Williams have led to some of the best scores ever written, and high on the list of their collaborations is undoubtedly Raiders of the Lost Ark.
This rousing, momentous theme feels like a call to adventure all by itself, and Indy’s main theme isn’t the only flex in the movie.
In fact, it’s complemented by an entire score that seems dedicated to perfectly setting the mood for one of Spielberg’s very best movies.
 From Indy’s love theme to scoring some intense action sequences, Williams firmly established himself as the best in the biz here thanks to the best action score ever devised.
Editors' Recommendations 5 bad 2000s action movies that you still need to watch right now 7 best sci-fi movie actors 7 best cosmic Marvel characters ever, ranked 7 best movie parodies ever, ranked The best action movies on Netflix right now Action DC Comics Sci-Fi Entertainment The '90s were all about action at the box office. And it's not an exaggeration to say that several of the top action movies of the '90s rank among the best in the genre. But there are far more bad '90s action movies than there are good ones.
Instead of running down the truly forgettable flicks from that decade, we're throwing the spotlight on five bad '90s action movies that you still need to watch. Each of the five films below has at least one or more redeeming factors. But not every one of these movies is readily available on the major streamers. So you'll have to rent or buy them if you want to see them all.
Speed 2: Cruise Control (1997) Entertainment There's nothing better than a free movie, and Amazon Freevee is the best option for streaming fans who don't want to pay a monthly fee to enjoy films from the past and the present. Much like everything on Prime Video, Freevee's selection ranges from genuine Hollywood hits to some really bad low-budget flicks that might be better off forgotten.
Nevertheless, Freevee gives action fans plenty of options every month. Our top choices for November include one of the wildest Western action flicks from the '80s, a chase movie, and a very enjoyable Jean-Claude Van Damme film. These are the three underrated action movies on Amazon Freevee that you should watch in November.
Young Guns (1988) Entertainment It has to be somewhat discouraging for Paramount+ subscribers to see so many of the best action movies, and the best movies in general, go straight to the higher tiers of Paramount+ with Showtime. Here at Digital Trends, we're firm believers in the idea that these movies should be available to every subscriber regardless of tiers. So our picks for the three best action movies on Paramount+ are available on all tiers.
This month's picks include one of the biggest action movies from last summer, a Best Picture winner at the Oscars, and a retelling of a real-life story. These are the three action movies on Paramount+ that you need to watch in November.
Mission: Impossible - Dead Reckoning Part One (2023) Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
