Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix F1 Live Stream Stranger Things Season 5 Best New Movies Most Popular Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney+ UFC Live Stream Best Movies on Disney+ Home Entertainment Guides Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? The 7 best death-defying stunts in movies ever By Dan Girolamo Close Warner Bros. Pictures Stunt work continues to be one of the most impressive and underappreciated aspects of filmmaking. Time and time again, stunt performers perform jaw-dropping feats to entertain an audience. What would action filmmaking be without the stunt performers? It’s why Chad Stahelski and Christopher McQuarrie have campaigned for a stunt category at the Academy Awards.
Collapsing house – Steamboat Bill, Jr. (1928) Pole slide – Police Story (1985) The corkscrew jump – The Man with the Golden Gun (1974) The Burj Khalifa climb – Mission: Impossible – Ghost Protocol (2011) Chariot race – Ben-Hur (1959) The car chase – Death Proof (2007) Pole battle – Mad Max: Fury Road (2015) From Buster Keaton and Jackie Chan to Zoë Bell and Tom Cruise, stunt work continues to evolve and improve with the dawn of new technology. To honor stunt work in movies, watch seven of the greatest death-defying stunts below.
Collapsing house – Steamboat Bill, Jr. (1928) Before Tom Cruise, there was Buster Keaton.
 The fact Keaton was pulling off death-defying stunts in the 1920s is truly unfathomable. Without CGI, Keaton pulled off his most famous stunt in 1928’s Steamboat Bill, Jr.
 In the scene, Keaton has an entire building fall with his back turned to the wall. Keaton’s body goes through an open attic window, saving him from death.
Since Keaton did not look back at the building, he used a nail on the ground as a marker for where to stand. If Keaton missed his mark by even an inch, the building would have killed him. The stunt was so dangerous that half the crew walked off the set , refusing to witness a potential death.
Stream Steamboat Bill, Jr.
on Prime Video.
Pole slide – Police Story (1985) Hidden Strike ‘s Jackie Chan is an icon, and in the 1980s, he began his ascent to superstardom. In 1985, Chan co-wrote, directed, and starred in Police Story , an action thriller about a police detective (Chan) who must prove his innocence after being framed for murder. Toward the end, Chan completes a stunt considered one of the greatest in action movie history.
Chan jumps off a mall balcony onto a pole surrounded by lights. As he slides down the pole, the lights break and explode, and Chan falls through the glass at the end of the stunt. In an interview with IGN , Chan said he suffered second-degree burns, broke his seventh and eighth vertebrae, and dislocated his pelvis.
Stream Police Story on Max.
The corkscrew jump – The Man with the Golden Gun (1974) Leave it to 007 to pull off an impossible stunt. In 1974’s The Man With The Golden Gun , James Bond (Roger Moore) steals an AMC Hornet X and begins his pursuit of Scaramanga (Christopher Lee) in Bangkok, Thailand. To catch up with Scaramanga, Bond is forced to jump the car over a river by way of a broken bridge.
Because the bridge was tilted, the car completed a barrel roll, spinning 360 degrees in mid-air before safely landing on the other side. With no CGI, the stunt was completed by Loren “Bumps” Willert. The innovative stunt was conceived with vehicle simulation software at the Cornell Aeronautical Laboratory (CAL) in Buffalo, New York. The stunt is in the Guinness World Records for the first “ Astro spiral ” stunt on film.
Rent The Man with the Golden Gun on YouTube.
The Burj Khalifa climb – Mission: Impossible – Ghost Protocol (2011) It wouldn’t be a death-defying stunt list without a Tom Cruise story. Cruise is the poster boy for actors who do their own stunts. In the Mission: Impossible franchise alone, Cruise has completed a HALO jump, led a helicopter chase in the mountain, and parachuted to safety after driving a motorcycle off a cliff. Those all feel inferior to the Burj Khalifa climb in Mission: Impossible – Ghost Protocol.
In the scene, Cruise’s Ethan Hunt scales the tallest building in the world, the Burj Khalifa in Dubai, with only a few wires keeping him from falling to his death. The climb was so dangerous that Cruise had to find a new safety guy to approve the scene, a story famously shared by Matt Damon.
Stream Mission: Impossible – Ghost Protocol on Paramount+.
Chariot race – Ben-Hur (1959) To conduct the chariot race in Ben-Hur , $1 million was spent to build an entire arena, the biggest film set ever constructed at the time. The nine-minute sequence is full of heart-pounding action and edge-of-your-seat moments, including one instance that could have been catastrophic. At one point, Judah Ben-Hur (Charlton Heston) is forced to drive over wreckage from a crashed chariot.
Joe Canutt, the stuntman for Heston, is launched into the air with his feet pointing to the sky, causing his body to flip over the chariot. However, Canutt holds onto the chariot’s railing and pulls himself back into the chariot’s car. For an accident that could have resulted in death, Cannutt only suffered a minor chin injury.
Rent Ben-Hur on Prime Video.
The car chase – Death Proof (2007) After impressing Uma Thurman’s stuntwoman in Kill Bill , Zoë Bell played the lead female role in Quentin Tarantino’s movie Death Proof.
 Bell plays a stuntwoman based on herself and some of her experiences in the business. During the climactic scene, Bell rides on the hood of a speeding 1971 Dodge Challenger while holding onto two seatbelt straps from the doors of the car.
Stuntman Mike McKay (Kurt Russell) arrives on the scene in his 1969 Dodge Charger and begins ramming Zoë’s car, causing her to hold on for dear life as her body. When recalling the scene to RogerEbert.com , Bell said, “There’s no double, there’s no CGI, it’s all practical, and you’re seeing that the person crying is the same one falling off the car.” Rent Death Proof on Apple TV.
Pole battle – Mad Max: Fury Road (2015) Mad Max: Fury Road is a masterclass in action filmmaking from director George Miller. During the desert chase, the “pole-cats” stole the show as they glided from vehicle to vehicle. Guy Norris, the action unit director on Fury Road , said the pole-cats were inspired by Babe and Cirque du Soleil.
Norris brought in a Cirque du Soleil performer to train the stuntmen on Fury Road.
Miller filmed long takes to make the chase feel like a live event. The resulting scene became one of the iconic memories of the film.
Rent Mad Max: Fury Road on Prime Video.
Action Entertainment November has been a great month for movies at Netflix, with the premiere of David Fincher's The Killer, and recent box office hits like Insidious: The Red Door and Spider-Man: Across the Spider-Verse. This week, the new additions include The Impossible, a 2012 survival thriller that has already landed on the list of the 10 most popular movies on Netflix. For younger viewers, Minions is also heating up the charts despite the pending departure of the other films in the franchise at the end of the month.
There's only one holiday weekend left in November, so what's the best way to stay on top of everything new on Netflix? Why, we are, of course. Our list of the best movies on Netflix right now is updated every Friday, even on holiday weekends, so you can easily find something for every movie lover in your life.
Entertainment Summer is long over, and the fall season is in full swing. It's now late 2023, and just about everyone is subscribed to Netflix and Hulu. But would you be surprised if I told you one of the most underrated streaming services around is Tubi? The upstart streamer has tons of new and old TV shows from every decade and every genre imaginable. Want to watch the buzziest series that aired on Max? Tubi has it. Are you feeling nostalgic about that old movie or cartoon you used to watch as a kid in the '80s or '90s? Chances are, Tubi has it.
Tubi has so much content that it can be hard to choose which shows and films are worth your time. Digital Trends is here to help you sort out which ones are worth watching. Even though the streaming service is free, time is valuable, and no one wants to waste it watching subpar content.
Entertainment Rather than waiting for the Thanksgiving holiday weekend, Apple TV+ and Netflix dropped two of their biggest shows of the fall this week. Netflix's The Crown kicked off its sixth and final season with four new episodes, while the Apple TV+ Godzilla-adjacent series Monarch: Legacy of Monster, dropped its first two episodes this week, with new episodes arriving weekly thereafter. Also this week, Scott Pilgrim Takes Off hits Netflix, while Max gets in on the act this week by premiering the second season of Julia.
Netflix, Amazon Prime Video, Hulu, Max, Apple TV+, Disney+, Paramount+, and Peacock still have new shows coming for the rest of November, including a handful arriving next week. But if you've been thinking about cutting back on your streaming bill, then perhaps you should consider signing up for the ad-supported tiers. In the meantime, keep reading for our weekly roundup of the best new shows to stream.
When you're done here, check out the best new movies to stream this week, as well as the best shows on Netflix, best shows on Hulu, best shows on Amazon Prime Video, and best shows on Disney+.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
