Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix F1 Live Stream Stranger Things Season 5 Best New Movies Most Popular Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney+ UFC Live Stream Best Movies on Disney+ Home Entertainment Guides The 7 best Sylvester Stallone action movies, ranked By Alex Welch Close Lionsgate There aren’t many Hollywood movie stars more recognizable than Sylvester Stallone. In the years since he achieved breakout success with 1976’s Rocky , which he both starred in and wrote, Stallone has gone on to have one of the most successful careers of any actor of his generation. While he’ll always be known for his work on the Rocky franchise , too, he also starred in some of the most popular action movies of the 1980s and ‘90s. In doing so, he secured his place alongside Arnold Schwarzenegger, Bruce Willis, and Jean-Claude Van Damme as one of the most iconic action stars of the 20th century.
7. Rambo (2008) 6. Bullet to the Head (2012) 5. Demolition Man (1993) 4. The Expendables 2 (2012) 3. Cliffhanger (1993) 2. Rocky IV (1985) 1. First Blood (1982) Now, with Expend4bles set to hit theaters today, it’s worth looking back and ranking some of the best action movies that Stallone has ever starred in. To be clear: That means most of the Rocky movies, which function more as intimate sports dramas than high-octane blockbusters, don’t qualify for this list. We also won’t be including 2021’s The Suicide Squad , which is an undeniably fun and well-made action movie, but only features Stallone in a small voice role. With that out of the way, here are the seven best action movies of Stallone’s career.
7. Rambo (2008) Lionsgate Sylvester Stallone directed, starred in, and co-wrote this continuation of the Rambo franchise. While it isn’t nearly as good as the series’ first entry, either, it is a thrillingly violent, often shockingly well-staged piece of action entertainment. Behind the camera, Stallone somehow takes the franchise to even gorier, bloodier places than any of its first three installments.
The 10 best characters in the Hunger Games movies, ranked 3 action movies on Netflix you need to watch in November 7 best movie parodies ever, ranked The result is a modern-day John Rambo movie that definitely doesn’t need to exist and makes very little sense but is the kind of hyperviolent, sufficiently entertaining action romp that movie theaters practically invented late afternoon showtimes for.
6. Bullet to the Head (2012) Warner Bros. Pictures Is Bullet to the Head a *good* movie? No. Is it a whole lot of fun? Absolutely. Directed by the legendary Walter Hill, this 2012 B-movie stars Sylvester Stallone as a New Orleans-based hitman who partners up with a Washington D.C. detective played by Fast and Furious star Sung Kang.
Even more importantly, Bullet to the Head pits Stallone against another hitman played by a then-up-and-coming Jason Momoa. The two stars’ on-screen rivalry is consistently electric, and the entire movie is made a worthwhile endeavor solely by their climactic axe battle. Yes, you read that right: Bullet to the Head ends with Momoa and Stallone fighting to the death with a pair of axes. The scene is just as silly and hard-hitting as it sounds.
5. Demolition Man (1993) Warner Bros. Pictures This 1993 sci-fi action thriller received mixed reviews when it was originally released, but it’s since gone on to become a bit of a cult classic. It’s not hard to see why, either. Directed by Marco Brambilla, Demolition Man pits Sylvester Stallone and Wesley Snipes against each other as a pair of ultra-violent foes who are cryogenically frozen only to be later reawakened in an advanced version of society that has all but eliminated crime.
The film mines gold out of Stallone and Snipes’ bitter rivalry, and its satirical streak prevents Demolition Man from taking itself too seriously. It’s an absurd action movie, but one that is far more effective than it has any right to be.
4. The Expendables 2 (2012) Lionsgate The Expendables franchise has been a mixed bag ever since it began. That said, its second installment, 2012’s The Expendables 2 , is basically everything the series should be. Directed by Con Air director and B-movie extraordinaire Simon West, The Expendables 2 is a loud, violent, and ultimately breezy action flick.
Like Demolition Man , it doesn’t take itself too seriously, which makes it easy to get lost in the film’s action sequences and enjoy its moments of humorous banter between action movie greats like Sylvester Stallone, Jason Statham, Jet Li, Chuck Norris, Dolph Lundgren, Bruce Willis, and Arnold Schwarzenegger.
The Expendables 2 knows what its job is, and it dutifully delivers everything that’s required of it.
3. Cliffhanger (1993) TriStar Pictures 1993’s Cliffhanger is the best non-franchise action movie Sylvester Stallone has ever made. Directed by Renny Harlin, the film follows Stallone’s Gabe Walker, a former mountain climber, as he gets caught up in the heist of a crashed U.S. Treasury plane in the Rocky Mountains.
Clocking in at just a little under 2 hours long, the film is an intense and enthralling thriller, one that surrounds Stallone with a number of talented supporting players, including John Lithgow, Michael Rooker, Rex Linn, Janine Turner, and Caroline Goodall. It’s one of the better Die Hard -inspired action movies that swept through the 1980s and ‘90s, and it’s as purely entertaining as any other movie that Stallone has starred in.
2. Rocky IV (1985) MGM/UA Entertainment Co.
It feels wrong to make a list of Sylvester Stallone’s greatest hits without including at least one Rocky movie. While most of the Rocky films Stallone has made aren’t really action movies, either, 1985’s Rocky IV is the closest the franchise has ever come to being nothing more than a pure genre exercise.
Written, directed, and led by Stallone, Rocky IV boasts some of the best boxing matches of the series’ history and some of the greatest training montages you’ll likely ever see. It may not feature any shootouts or fiery explosions, but Stallone somehow manages to make Rocky Balboa running through the snow-covered lands of Russia as genuinely thrilling and adrenaline-pumping as any car chase.
1. First Blood (1982) Orion Pictures This may be the obvious pick for Sylvester Stallone’s best action movie, but there’s a reason for that. No other action movie he’s made has come close to beating First Blood.
 Directed by Ted Kotcheff, the film is one of the best American action movies that’s ever been made, and its ideas about the unnecessary violence of war are as thematically compelling today as they were back in 1982.
Even more importantly, First Blood fully weaponizes Stallone’s quiet star power and allows him to give one of the most impactful performances of his career. He makes even the most ludicrous of moments seem plausible and turns the film into one of the most effective reminders of why he’s always been such an unquestionably unique, formidable movie star.
Editors' Recommendations 5 bad 2000s action movies that you still need to watch right now 7 best sci-fi movie actors All of David Fincher’s movies, ranked from worst to best The best action movies on Netflix right now This 2019 Liam Neeson action movie is popular on Netflix. Here’s why Action Entertainment It has to be somewhat discouraging for Paramount+ subscribers to see so many of the best action movies, and the best movies in general, go straight to the higher tiers of Paramount+ with Showtime. Here at Digital Trends, we're firm believers in the idea that these movies should be available to every subscriber regardless of tiers. So our picks for the three best action movies on Paramount+ are available on all tiers.
This month's picks include one of the biggest action movies from last summer, a Best Picture winner at the Oscars, and a retelling of a real-life story. These are the three action movies on Paramount+ that you need to watch in November.
Mission: Impossible - Dead Reckoning Part One (2023) Entertainment Over the past 24 years, Sofia Coppola has built one of the most impressive filmographies of any filmmaker of her generation. After directing one of the most striking feature debuts of the 1990s, Coppola went on to make some of the best movies of the 2000s. While the 2010s marked a bit of a creative lull for the filmmaker, she’s returned this year with the new A24 drama Priscilla, which has already emerged as one of the fall’s most acclaimed new releases.
The Priscilla Presley biopic, which explores its subject’s perspective on her famous real-life relationship with the King of Rock and Roll, Elvis Presley, sees Coppola return to some of the ideas and themes that have interested her throughout her entire career. For that reason, it seems fitting to use Priscilla’s release this week as an opportunity to look back at Coppola’s career and rank all of her films from worst to best.
9. A Very Murray Christmas (2015) Entertainment The Afghanistan War drama The Kill Team arrived in theaters with little fanfare in 2019. Only a handful of people actually saw it during its initial run. Now, The Kill Team has appeared among the most popular movies on Netflix, which may finally give it the wider audience that it deserves.
The Kill Team was directed and written by Dan Krauss, who based it on his 2013 documentary of the same name. The story loosely adapts the Maywand District murders, a series of disturbing incidents in which U.S. soldiers murdered innocent Afghan civilians seemingly for sport. Nat Wolff stars in the film as Andrew Briggman, with Alexander Skarsgård as Sergeant Deeks, Adam Long as Rayburn, Jonathan Whitesell as Coombs, Brian "Sene" Marc as Marquez, Rob Morrow as William Briggman, Osy Ikhile as Weppler, Anna Francolini as Laura Briggman, Oliver Ritchie as Cappy, Tunji Kasim as Sergeant Wallace, and Taz Skylar as Sergeant Dawes.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
