Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix F1 Live Stream Stranger Things Season 5 Best New Movies Most Popular Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney+ UFC Live Stream Best Movies on Disney+ Home Entertainment Guides The best TV-to-movie adaptations ever By Joe Allen Close In the age of streaming, it’s easy to think about TV and movies as interchangeable. The two industries have always been related, and although they tell stories in different ways, we often see movie stars doing TV or TV stars rising to become A-list movie stars.
21 Jump Street (2012) In the Loop (2009) Borat (2006) Mission: Impossible — Fallout (2018) The Simpsons Movie (2007) Star Trek II: The Wrath of Khan (1982) The Fugitive (1993) Throughout the long history of these two mediums, there have also been a number of times when TV shows and movies cross streams. Some of the most popular TV shows in the history of the medium have come to the big screen at one point or another, and we’re here to take a look at seven of the best examples of TV shows being adapted into movies.
21 Jump Street (2012) A comedy adapted from a much more serious teen show, 21 Jump Street takes the premise of young cops in high school and decides to have some fun with it. Although the movie has basically nothing in common with the TV show beyond that initial premise, that premise proves to be a remarkably workable formula.
7 video game movie and TV adaptations we can’t wait to watch 3 underrated sci-fi movies on Amazon Freevee you should watch in November 10 best animated TV shows for adults ever made And, thanks to exceptionally winning performances from Jonah Hill and Channing Tatum, 21 Jump Street is a remarkably great comedy. Throw in a solid cameo from the stars of the original show, and 21 Jump Street feels like a series paying homage to its predecessor while very much doing its own thing.
In the Loop (2009) Armando Iannucci is one of the great political satirists of the 21st Century, and In the Loop , his sequel/reboot of the TV show The Thick of It , firmly established him as one of the greats. The film is a political satire that spirals outward from a single incident after a British official describes war in the Middle East as “unforeseeable.” The remark, and the stark consequences of it, are designed to highlight the absurd way that a single comment from some random dude can ultimately lead to the deaths of thousands. It’s bleak, funny, and a little too real, which are all hallmarks of Iannucci’s remarkable style.
Borat (2006) Before Borat made him one of the biggest stars in comedy, Sacha Baron Cohen got his start doing a wide array of characters, including Borat, on Da Ali G Show.
 When Borat eventually became a feature-length movie, the comedian decided to use the character to comment on the many peculiarities of America.
Of course, things continued to get stranger in the US, which may explain why the character made his return a little more than a decade later.
Borat ‘s cultural legacy is irrevocably tied to these two movies, but the character started on TV, and that’s important to remember.
Mission: Impossible — Fallout (2018) It’s hard to even reconcile the Mission: Impossible franchise as it currently exists with the TV show that it’s based on, but it’s also impossible to deny that these phenomenal action movies take plenty of their DNA, including the silly masks, from that original show.
Fallout is almost definitely the best Mission: Impossible , filled with action that comes at a truly breakneck pace, and several sequences that you can barely believe are real.
Mission: Impossible is one of the best movie franchises out there, but we wouldn’t have it without its humble roots as a TV show.
The Simpsons Movie (2007) One of the more direct adaptations on this list, The Simpsons Movie simply imagines what The Simpsons would be like on the big screen. While the show wasn’t as funny as it had once been by the time this movie rolled around, the movie itself more than delivered. The film sees Springfield endangered after a leaky silo threatens the town, and the family at the show’s center has to split up.
What results is a hilarious, madcap adventure that more than proved The Simpsons could translate to the big screen. After the movie’s enormous success, it’s safe to say that we’d follow this yellow family anywhere.
Star Trek II: The Wrath of Khan (1982) The first Star Trek movie has a more divisive reputation among fans, but almost everyone agrees that these movies don’t get much better than The Wrath of Khan.
 The movie, which follows Captain Kirk as he resumes command of the Enterprise to take on Khan, an enemy from his past (and from the original TV show), gives us exactly what every great Star Trek movie should.
It’s exciting, moves quickly, and turns out to be surprisingly tender in its closing moments. Few sci-fi movies have had more enduring legacies than this one, and the movie’s success was more than enough justification to keep this franchise going all through the ’80s.
The Fugitive (1993) Adapted from the hugely popular TV show of the same name, The Fugitive follows Dr. Richard Kimble as he flees from authorities in an attempt to prove that he’s not responsible for the death of his wife.
Harrison Ford gives a commanding central performance here, and he’s matched by Tommy Lee Jones as a U.S. Marshal hell-bent on nabbing his man.
Although The Fugitive ran for years and years, its movie adaptation managed to condense the show’s core conceit nicely into a perfect thriller. In fact, the movie was so good that it earned plenty of Oscar love, even in spite of its genre trappings.
Editors' Recommendations 7 worst sci-fi movie endings of all time 7 best movie parodies ever, ranked 3 action movies on Paramount+ you need to watch in November 3 best horror movies on Apple TV+ to watch this Halloween 7 greatest sci-fi TV finales ever, ranked Action Entertainment When you think of an action movie, the first thing you think of probably isn't the score. You might think of the actors, the plot, or the set pieces, but underlying every great action movie is an equally great score. These scores help you understand what kind of movie you're watching, and keep you locked into the biggest moments in some of the best action movies ever made.
A great action score should be engaging on its own, but it should also reinforce the movie around it. All of the scores on this list do exactly that, and they have at least one iconic theme you're likely to recognize as well.
7. Terminator 2: Judgment Day Terminator 2 Theme Entertainment Major League Baseball may bill itself as "America's pastime," but sports fans know that it was surpassed in popularity by NFL football decades ago. Football can be a brutal competition, but it has captured the hearts of sports enthusiasts across the nation. That's why football movies have been a part of cinema for a very long time.
When picking the best football movies ever, we decided to focus on the films where football is a central part of the narrative. Movies like Jerry Maguire, which features football as a background element, didn't make the cut. And if you already love sports movies, then you won't be too shocked by the choices we made. These are the five best football movies ever.
5. Friday Night Lights (2004) Entertainment Hulu subscribers have surely noticed that the site is going all in on Huluween horror programing. But that doesn't mean there aren't three sci-fi movies on Hulu that you should watch this month. And all three films were a part of everything new on Hulu at the beginning of October.
This month's selections include a little-seen underwater sci-fi horror film, Tom Cruise's post-apocalyptic adventure, and a reboot that may have saved one of the most storied franchises in all of science fiction. These are three sci-fi movies on Hulu that you need to watch in October.
Underwater (2020) Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
