Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix F1 Live Stream Stranger Things Season 5 Best New Movies Most Popular Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney+ UFC Live Stream Best Movies on Disney+ Home Entertainment Guides 7 biggest flaws of the most popular movie franchises, ranked By Anthony Orlando Close There are some movies, such as Citizen Kane , The Godfather , and Casablanca , that many people agree are perfect motion pictures. But no matter what anyone says, no film can ever be truly flawless.
7. Avatar — It uses an outdated white savior narrative 6. The Hobbit — Turning the book into three films 5. James Bond movies — Its stereotypical portrayal of women 4. Toy Story — There are too many toys! 3. Sam Raimi’s Spider-Man trilogy — It has a campy tone 2. The Dark Knight trilogy — Lapses in narrative logic 1. The Marvel Cinematic Universe — There too much that’s too similar At least one error always makes it into the finished product, and once the initial hype dies down after a movie’s release, these flaws only grow more and more noticeable, especially as people’s ideas and standards change. So while they may have achieved massive acclaim in their heydays, these seven film franchises still have a fatal flaw that needs addressing.
7. Avatar — It uses an outdated white savior narrative 20th Century Studios / 20th Century Studios Even though they achieved massive success in theaters, the Avatar films are guilty of perpetuating the white savior trope, in which a Caucasian hero comes to save people of color from trouble. Sam Worthington’s protagonist, Jake Sully, exemplifies himself as he assimilates himself in the Na’vi and ends up leading them to war against the human race as their messiah, “Toruk Makto.” 5 best action movie directors, ranked The 10 most influential movie directors working today It’s an outdated cinema stereotype that Avatar doesn’t even do a good job presenting, with Sully appearing more as a bland, generic archetype than an actual character, making him one of the most forgettable parts of the franchise.
6. The Hobbit — Turning the book into three films Warner Bros. / Warner Bros.
Peter Jackson’s vision of Middle-earth is no stranger to creative liberties, as The Lord of the Rings film trilogy compressed many plotlines and altered certain characters to streamline J.R.R. Tolkien’s three-book epic for cinemas. While this helped make it a legendary success, The Hobbit films didn’t have as much success despite their massive profits.
Unlike the original trilogy, The Hobbit franchise took a 300-page book and stretched it into three 3-hour films. It is understandable that Jackson decided to expand on the vaguer aspects of the original story, such as Gandalf leaving to fight Sauron in Mirkwood, as well as Bard and Thranduil’s characters. But the franchise became so filled with new and unnecessary storylines that the trilogy felt bloated. It would’ve been better if the filmmakers stuck with their original plan to split the novel into two parts for cinemas.
5. James Bond movies — Its stereotypical portrayal of women MGM / MGM It seems like most Bond girls in the past have seriously low self-esteem. Just about every woman 007 has encountered succumbs to Bond’s charm and sexual advances to an almost cartoonish degree. Even when Bond’s advances qualify as assault and harassment, the women he targets go along with them, and the film brushes it all aside as just another one of 007’s sexual conquests.
Though the Daniel Craig James Bond films have steered away from this harmful trend, the franchise still can’t seem to shake its misogynistic reputation, especially since much of it was built around Bond being a womanizer.
4. Toy Story — There are too many toys! Pixar / Pixar Pixar has had trouble doing some of its sequels right, and Toy Story is no exception. As each sequel kept trying to top its predecessors, more and more toys were introduced to the franchise to shake things up. And just like in real life, the arrival of new toys caused the old ones to be pushed aside.
This became problematic in Toy Story 4 , where most of Bonnie’s toys were left on the sidelines in favor of Woody, Buzz, Bo Peep, Jessie, Forky, and other newcomers. This raises fears for the upcoming fifth film, but hopefully, it can do what the third did and purge the cast of some of its extraneous toys and focus more on presenting a satisfying narrative.
3. Sam Raimi’s Spider-Man trilogy — It has a campy tone Sony / Sony Sam Raimi’s Spider-Man trilogy revived superhero films when it debuted in the 2000s, and it still has many fans who have kept it on a tall pedestal. But as comic book movies continued to evolve since then, it has become clear that Raimi’s campy saga wasn’t quite the genre at its best.
There’s some over-the-top acting that comes in many forms, from Peter and Harry’s hammy deliveries to the villains’ cringe yquips to terrified women screaming their heads off like they’re in an Evil Dead movie. There’s also a bank that, for some reason, has a vault filled with gold coins like it belongs to Scrooge McDuck. This campiness may give the trilogy its unique charm, but take away the nostalgia, and these films wouldn’t hold up well in the modern era of more realistic comic book adaptations. Speaking of which … 2. The Dark Knight trilogy — Lapses in narrative logic Warner Bros. / Warner Bros.
Christopher Nolan’s Batman films set a high bar for the superhero genre. While the films may have made comic book movies look realistic, they still are lacking in real-world logic. For example, Ra’s al Ghul teaches Bruce everything he knows about fighting before getting him on board with his plans to destroy Gotham.
Even when Bruce decides to follow a no-killing rule, he starts a fire that kills much of the League of Shadows and flips two cop cars over in a manner that could have killed the drivers.
The Joker also manages to drive a school bus out of a bank in the middle of traffic without anyone stopping to notice. And would the Gotham police department really send ALL its officers beneath Gotham to arrest Bane in The Dark Knight Rises ? 1. The Marvel Cinematic Universe — There too much that’s too similar Marvel Studios / Marvel Studios There’s no denying that the MCU has been an overwhelming success, but as audiences have now seen, there can be too much of a good thing. Many of the franchise’s films seem to have been rolled out on a conveyor belt in recent years, factory-made to fulfill the basic requirements for an enjoyable comic book blockbuster.
Many of the movies now seem like the stereotypical hero’s journey with an overabundance of jokes and increasingly bad CGI, and this problem is only made worse by all the streaming shows that have taken up the studio’s time.
Editors' Recommendations The best MCU sequels, ranked 10 best action movie sidekicks ever, ranked Comic Book Movies Fantasy Marvel Sci-Fi Entertainment Few comics outside of the world of comic book movies and superheroes have had greater influence in recent years than Scott Pilgrim vs. the World. The story was created by author Bryan Lee O'Malley and follows a man named Scott living in Toronto who is forced to battle the evil exes of a girl that he's interested in.
The legacy of Scott Pilgrim only increased after a movie adaptation was released several years later and became a cult classic in its own right. Now, with the new animated series adaptation Scott Pilgrim Takes Off streaming on Netflix, we're here to make the case that Scott Pilgrim is the best comic book ever. Here are 10 reasons why: It has a unique sensibility Entertainment On November 20, 1973, Charlie Brown and the Peanuts taught us to count our blessings and appreciate the important things in life in A Charlie Brown Thanksgiving. In the Emmy Award-winning animated special, Charlie and Sally Brown are supposed to head to their grandmother's house for Thanksgiving. Before they can leave, Peppermint Patty invites herself and a few friends over for dinner. Even though he can't cook, Charlie Brown decides to improvise and cook a simple meal with the help of Snoopy and Linus before heading to his grandma's.
Though not as popular as A Charlie Brown Christmas and It's the Great Pumpkin, Charlie Brown, A Charlie Brown Thanksgiving is still quite effective in conveying the true meaning of the holiday. It's an appropriate tribute to Thanksgiving. Here's how to watch A Charlie Brown Thanksgiving.
Watch A Charlie Brown Thanksgiving on Apple TV+ Entertainment This week is a particularly memorable one for Netflix's original series with two big premieres. The Crown – the British drama that has been one of the most popular shows on Netflix since its premiere in 2016 – is heading towards the finish line with the premiere of its sixth and final season. Additionally, the cult classic film and comic, Scott Pilgrim vs. the World, is getting a new anime series, Scott Pilgrim Takes Off.
With the Thanksgiving holiday coming next week, there's never been a better time to catch up on what's new on Netflix. You may even need the breather because it's been a busy year for Netflix. Don't worry, our weekly update of the best shows on Netflix will always be updated on Fridays to help you plan your weekend binge.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
