Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix F1 Live Stream Stranger Things Season 5 Best New Movies Most Popular Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney+ UFC Live Stream Best Movies on Disney+ Home Entertainment News Winston battles the underworld in John Wick’s The Continental trailer By Dan Girolamo Close Winston Scott aims to seize control of the famous hotel for assassins in the latest trailer for The Continental: From the World of John Wick , the prequel spinoff series from Peacock.
The Continental is set in 1970s New York City and follows a young Winston ( Ambulance’s Colin Woodall), who will one day manage The Continental Hotel in the John Wick franchise. The series explores Winston’s origins and how he came to “take the house and everything that comes with it.” In The Continental , the hotel is run by the villainous Cormac ( Father Stu’s Mel Gibson ). Winston’s brother, Frankie ( Animal Kingdom’s Ben Robson), stole a valuable possession from Cormac, and Winston must find it and bring it back to the hotel or face the “weight of the whole institution.” Winston has no intention of turning in his brother, so he recruits other assassins and prepares for battle against the hotel.
The cast also stars Hubert Point-Du Jour ( The Good Lord Bird ) as Miles, Peter Greene as Uncle Charlie ( Pulp Fiction ), Jessica Allain ( Fear ) as Lou, Mishel Prada ( Vida ) as KD, Nhung Kate ( The Housemaid ) as Yen, Sallay Garnett ( Conversations with Friends ) as The Concierge, Jeremy Bobb ( Russian Doll) as Mayhew, Katie McGrath ( Jurassic World ) as The Adjudicator, Ray McKinnon ( Mayans M.C ) as Jenkins, Mark Musashi ( Avatar ) as Hansel, Adam Shapiro ( Never Have I Ever ) as Lemmy, Marina Mazepa ( The Girl In the Woods ) as Gretel, and Ayomide Adegun ( The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes ) as Charon.
John David Washington headlines epic sci-fi action thriller in The Creator trailer John Wick vs. Jason Bourne: who would win in a fight to the death? The best John Wick movies, ranked by box office gross The Continental is developed by Greg Coolidge ( Ride Along ), Shawn Simmons ( Wayne ), and Kirk Ward ( Zombieland ), with Coolidge and Ward serving as co-showrunners. Albert Hughes ( The Book of Eli ) directs the first and third episodes, while Charlotte Brandstrom ( The Lord of the Rings: The Rings of Power ) directs episode 2.
Peacock The three-part event premieres September 22, followed by night 2 airing on September 29, and night 3 airing on October 6.
Editors' Recommendations John David Washington fights AI in The Creator trailer Where to watch the John Wick movies for free All the John Wick movies, ranked from worst to best 5 John Wick characters who need their own spinoff movie John Wick franchise travels to the 1970s in first trailer for spinoff series The Continental Action Peacock Tech News Entertainment In 2014, the world was introduced to John Wick (The Matrix's Keanu Reeves), the legendary assassin who left the profession to marry his wife, Helen (Blue Bloods' Bridget Moynahan). After Helen tragically dies, a grieving John is pulled back into the criminal underworld after a group of Russian gangsters steal his car and kill his puppy, a gift from his wife. Clad in his signature black suit, a motivated John punches, shoots, and kills whatever or whoever comes his way on his quest for vengeance.
Four movies later, the John Wick series is widely regarded as one of the best action franchises ever made. What sets John Wick apart from other franchises is its approach to action filmmaking. Instead of quick cuts and closeups, John Wick relies on highly choreographed sequences and single takes, which was first instilled by John Wick's co-directors David Leitch (Deadpool 2) and Chad Stahelski (John Wick: Chapter 4). The successful franchise will now expand the universe in its first feature spinoff, Ballerina, centered around a female assassin out for revenge against those who murdered her family.
Entertainment It's official: John Wick: Chapter 4 is a hit with critics and audiences alike. Yet in every movie franchise, at some point, the hero has to either call it quits or die. It happened with Christian Bale's Batman, who seemingly died at the end of The Dark Knight Rises, only to be revealed as living incognito in Europe with Anne Hathaway's Catwoman. Tony Stark sacrificed himself to save the MCU in Avengers: Endgame. It even happened to Daniel Craig's James Bond, who seemed to have perished at the end of No Time to Die. If 007 can meet his maker, then no action hero is safe.
Is it John Wick's turn? One can argue the action hero is just hitting his stride. The latest movie featuring the character, John Wick: Chapter 4, is set to be the most successful JW movie to date, and the early critical reception has been rapturous. A spinoff, Ballerina, is in the works, and star Keanu Reeves has talked about a fifth movie. Yet the action in the film is intense, and even John Wick has his limits. Does John Wick die at the end of John Wick: Chapter 4? What happens at the end of John Wick: Chapter 4? Entertainment Now that John Wick: Chapter 4 has premiered in theaters, audiences have been left wondering what's next for the iconic action movie franchise. This fourth film has established the perfect conclusion for John Wick's story, but a fifth John Wick movie received the green light all the way back in 2020.
Will it happen? Who knows, but with all the new characters, superb action scenes, and complex world-building in Chapter 4, it would be a crime not to make more movies in the Wick universe. Should John Wick: Chapter 5 come to fruition, here are the five things I want to see happen in the movie.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
