Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix F1 Live Stream Stranger Things Season 5 Best New Movies Most Popular Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney+ UFC Live Stream Best Movies on Disney+ Home Entertainment Guides Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? 7 greatest sci-fi TV finales ever, ranked By Blair Marnell Close Fiction can go on forever in certain mediums, but all TV shows must eventually come to end. Fans of sci-fi TV shows have likely noticed that very few of their favorite shows were even afforded the chance to get a proper finale. Even in the streaming era, early cancellations are a bane for genre lovers. That’s why it’s so important to celebrate the shows that did get to exit the stage gracefully.
7. Blake’s 7 6. Star Trek: The Next Generation 5. Firefly 4. Babylon 5 3. Watchmen 2. Star Wars: The Clone Wars 1. Star Trek: Picard Our picks for the seven greatest sci-fi TV finales does leave out a few shows like Quantum Leap that left fans feeling unsatisfied by the fate of the main character. It’s alright for a show to have an unhappy ending — but it has to be the right ending for the show. As you’ll see below, even a bleak conclusion is better than no ending at all.
7. Blake’s 7 BBC There are few fans today who are aware of Blake’s 7 , a British sci-fi series that ran in the late 1970s and early ’80s. And if people do know about it, that’s probably because it has one of the most infamous endings in sci-fi history. After an extended absence, Roj Blake (Gareth Thomas), the former leader of a band of rebels, returns under murky circumstances. Blake’s replacement and his former second-in-command, Kerr Avon (Paul Darrow), becomes convinced that Blake betrayed them and he kills him for it.
10 biggest sci-fi hits of all time, ranked by adjusted box-office gross 10 most influential sci-fi movies ever 10 best sci-fi movies of the 1980s, ranked To make things even more grim, the fascist Federation closes in on the rest of Avon’s crew and murders every single one of them. Avon himself is the sole survivor, and the show ends with an enigmatic smile on his face as he is surrounded by enemy forces. Fans of the show never got proper closure for this series, but what an audacious way to go out.
Watch Blake’s 7 on BritBox.
6. Star Trek: The Next Generation Paramount Star Trek: The Next Generation was the first Star Trek series that actually got to go out on its own terms. Both the original Star Trek and the animated series were canceled ahead of their time. Going into this episode, the creative team behind the show were already working on Star Trek: Generations , the first of four TNG-era films with this cast. Yet, the series finale, All Good Things … , works on its own by giving fans a glimpse of the past, the present, and the future of the crew.
Captain Jean-Luc Picard (Patrick Stewart) carries the bulk of the episode and appears in nearly every scene as the omnipotent Q (John de Lancie) gives him one last riddle to solve in three different time periods. This proves to be especially difficult in the past and the future, when the crew is more wary of following Picard’s lead. However, the series’ final scene features a simple human moment that was years in the making as Picard himself finally connects with his crew over a round of cards.
Watch Star Trek: The Next Generation on Paramount+.
5. Firefly 20th Century Studios TV Firefly ‘s finale is unique on this list because it wasn’t made to be a series finale, or even a season finale. Regardless of Fox’s premature cancellation of the show, series creator Josh Whedon closed things out with a bottle episode that takes place almost entirely on the Serenity from the point of view of River Tam (Summer Glau).
Through River’s eyes, viewers saw the members of the crew lay out their secrets, including the outwardly pious Shepherd Book (Ron Glass). However, River’s near telepathic gift and her inability to always distinguish between her visions and reality makes Captain Mal Reynolds (Nathon Fillion) and the crew question whether they are safe to travel with her.
They get their answer in the form of Jubal Early (Richard Brooks), a bounty hunter who takes them down one by one on their own ship. Everyone except for River, who has her own plans for their unwanted visitor. The way this episode ends gives the crew some closure, although the feature film Serenity is arguably a great series finale as well.
Watch Firefly on Hulu.
4. Babylon 5 Warner Bros. TV Babylon 5 series creator J. Michael Straczynski always intended the show to last five seasons. But when it looked like the show might be over after only four seasons, Straczynski wrote and directed the series finale, Sleeping in Light , and held it back for a year when the show was renewed for a fifth and final season.
The finale acts as an epilogue for the entire series and jumps ahead two decades as John Sheridan (Bruce Boxleitner) faces the end of his life alongside his wife, Delenn (Mira Furlan). Thankfully, there’s enough time to gather their closest friends for one last dinner, and for Sheridan to fully take stock of his life and what Babylon 5 meant for the universe — and for everyone who served there.
Watch Babylon 5 on Tubi.
3. Watchmen HBO The Watchmen TV series pulled off the incredible feat of following up the original comic by Alan Moore and artist David Gibbons with a story that serves as a worthy sequel that most fans believed they would never get. The show takes its time in revealing how its main characters were connected to the comic, but everything was ultimately laid bare with the conclusion of the story of Angela Abar (Regina King) and her husband, Cal (Yahya Abdul-Mateen II), who was secretly Jonathan Osterman, aka Doctor Manhattan.
For the finale, Jonathan was paralyzed by his foreknowledge that he was about to die. But through his death, Angela realized that a universe of possibilities may have opened up for her to do more as a hero. In a perfect touch, the series ends on a question that may never be answered. And we’re OK with that.
Watch Watchmen on Max.
2. Star Wars: The Clone Wars Lucasfilm Star Wars: The Clone Wars almost didn’t get a real conclusion because it wasn’t a priority as Disney took over Lucasfilm just over a decade ago.
Star Wars Rebels also spoiled the fact that Ahsoka Tano (Ashley Eckstein) survived the Clone Wars, which took away some of the suspense about her fate. So, The Clone Wars season 7 had an uphill battle heading into its revival on Disney+.
By this time in the series, Ahsoka had left the Jedi Order behind and become a formidable heroine in her own right. The final episode caught up to the events of Revenge of the Sith as Order 66 wiped out the Jedi. Ahsoka fared better than most of the Jedi, but her survival came at a high price as her actions led to the death of almost all of her clone troops. The closing moments feature Ahsoka’s haunting tribute to her men, and the long-awaited arrival of Darth Vader. That ended up being an incredibly impactful way to close out this chapter of Star Wars history.
Watch Star Wars: The Clone Wars on Disney+.
1. Star Trek: Picard Paramount+ It’s entirely possible that Star Trek: Picard ‘s finale placed so highly because it’s the most recent one on this list. But it’s hard to think of another finale that delivered on all fronts the way that this one did. The entire third season of Picard played like an extended miniseries that reunited the cast of The Next Generation and featured intriguing links to both Star Trek: Deep Space Nine and Star Trek: Voyager.
 But the last two episodes were like the great TNG movie we never got to see in theaters, and it was glorious.
For the very last episode, viewers saw the last voyage of an old Enterprise, and the first voyage of a new Enterprise. The TNG crew had their last adventure, and gave way to a new crew. Every single main character on the show had a satisfactory sendoff, and as one story ended, another began.
Star Trek: Picard stuck the landing in its final episode, and that’s why fans have been clamoring for a Star Trek: Legacy spinoff.
Watch Star Trek: Picard on Paramount+.
Editors' Recommendations 7 worst sci-fi movie endings of all time The 10 best Star Trek: Voyager episodes, ranked The 10 best Star Trek: The Original Series episodes, ranked 5 sci-fi TV shows to watch if you liked the Apple TV+ series Foundation The 10 best worlds in sci-fi movies, ranked Comic Book Movies Sci-Fi Star Wars Entertainment The best sci-fi movies all have one thing in common. Great worlds and heroes come and go, but what makes a sci-fi movie endure is its villain. A sci-fi villain can come in a wide array of forms. Some of them are killing machines, while others are people with incredible powers or skills that make them a problem for our heroes.
In order for a day to be saved, though, all of these villains had to ultimately lose in one way or another. What separates the six villains that made this list, though, is that we weren't even totally sure we wanted the heroes to win. That's how good these villains are.
6. T-1000 (Terminator 2: Judgment Day) Entertainment Today, April 5, is First Contact Day to fans of Star Trek. It stems from a pivotal event in the film Star Trek: First Contact, which was one of four feature films to utilize the cast of Star Trek: The Next Generation. That's why it's fitting that Paramount+ used today as the occasion to announce that the entire TNG cast will return for the third and final season of Star Trek: Picard.
Picard launched in 2020 as a showcase for Patrick Stewart's beloved Jean-Luc Picard, two decades after the events of Star Trek: Nemesis. In the first season of Picard, Jonathan Frakes and Marina Sirtis reprised their roles as Will Riker and Deanna Troi in guest appearances. Brent Spiner also appeared as the android Data and Dr. Altan Inigo Soong. But in the video below, Paramount+ confirmed that Michael Dorn's Worf, LeVar Burton's Geordi La Forge, and Gates McFadden's Dr. Beverly Crusher will also take part in this onscreen reunion in the upcoming season.
Entertainment November has been a great month for movies at Netflix, with the premiere of David Fincher's The Killer, and recent box office hits like Insidious: The Red Door and Spider-Man: Across the Spider-Verse. This week, the new additions include The Impossible, a 2012 survival thriller that has already landed on the list of the 10 most popular movies on Netflix. For younger viewers, Minions is also heating up the charts despite the pending departure of the other films in the franchise at the end of the month.
There's only one holiday weekend left in November, so what's the best way to stay on top of everything new on Netflix? Why, we are, of course. Our list of the best movies on Netflix right now is updated every Friday, even on holiday weekends, so you can easily find something for every movie lover in your life.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
