Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix F1 Live Stream Stranger Things Season 5 Best New Movies Most Popular Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney+ UFC Live Stream Best Movies on Disney+ Home Entertainment Guides 7 best Henry Cavill movies, ranked By David Caballero Close Henry Cavill is among the most popular stars in Hollywood. Beloved by his fans, Cavill has built his fame on the back of several major franchises. Having played iconic characters like Superman and Geralt of Rivia, Cavill is no stranger to success, both critical and commercial. The recent release of The Witcher season 3 marked the end of his tenure as the White Wolf and featured some of his finest acting.
7. Immortals (2011) 6. Sand Castle (2017) 5. Man of Steel (2013) 4. Zack Snyder’s Justice League (2021) 3. Enola Holmes 2 (2022) 2. The Man from U.N.C.L.E. (2015) 1. Mission: Impossible – Fallout (2018) It might be easy to see Cavill only as a sex symbol or an action star, but the actor has proven his surprising versatility countless times. Since his early days in The Tudors , Cavill has delivered solid performances in numerous great films, from unforgettable superhero adventures to spy thrillers. With a resumé that strong, it might be hard to choose which of his films is the best, but a few clear standouts instantly come to mind when thinking of Cavill.
7. Immortals (2011) Image via Relativity Media Tarsem Singh’s highly-stylized fantasy epic Immortals stars Cavill as the mythological hero Theseus. However, the film isn’t a literal adaptation of Theseus’ myth, instead blending elements of other stories, including the return of the Heraclyds and the Titanomachy. The plot sees Theseus facing the despotic King Hyperion, who’s on a quest to find the legendary Bow of Epirus.
The 7 best death-defying stunts in movies ever The 7 best Tom Cruise action movies, ranked All the Mission: Impossible movies, ranked from worst to best Immortals is far too ambitious for its own good, especially with a slow-paced and occasionally incoherent plot. However, Singh’s gorgeous visuals and a game cast led by a decisive Cavill make the film an enjoyable experience. It might play fast and loose with Greek mythology, but thrilling, over-the-top action sequences and enough familiar characters result in a great addition to the modern sword-and-sandal genre.
6. Sand Castle (2017) Image via Netflix Cavill stars opposite Nicholas Hoult, Logan Marshall-Green, and Glen Powell in the 2017 war drama Sand Castle.
 The plot centers on Matt Ocre, a young soldier who discovers the true cost of war when his unit is sent to restore a water-pumping station in a rural Iraqi village. Cavill plays Captain Sylverson, leader of the Special Forces unit in charge of the mission.
Sand Castle is an unfairly overlooked film in Cavill’s filmography. The film features great performances from the cast and a surprisingly nuanced yet no less thrilling take on the War-is-Hell subgenre. It doesn’t do nearly as much as it could to condemn the conflict it depicts, but it has enough empathy for the participants to make for a worthy war drama that ranks among the best movies on Netflix.
5. Man of Steel (2013) Image via Warner Bros. / Image via Warner Bros.
Zack Snyder’s 2013 reinvention of Superman was Cavill’s ticket to stardom.
Man of Steel sees Cavill as the Last Son of Krypton, offering a more stoic and less idealistic take on the character. The film follows his initial meeting with Lois Lane, discovering his Kryptonian roots, and confronting the vengeful General Zod.
Man of Steel co-stars Amy Adams, Michael Shannon, and Russell Crowe.
Cavill’s portrayal of Superman remains divisive; some live by his more grounded take, while others decry his lack of empathy and emotional connection to the role. However, his profound impact on the character’s lore is undeniable. Although initially met with mixed reviews, Man of Steel has aged well and is now ranked highly among the best Superman movies.
 Similarly, Cavill’s depiction maintains its loyal and passionate fanbase. He might not be universally adored, but Cavill will always be Superman for an entire generation who grew up with his take on the Man of Steel.
4. Zack Snyder’s Justice League (2021) Image via Max The story behind the now-infamous Synder Cut is as fascinating as the film itself. After years of rumors, fan campaigns, and outrage, Zack Snyder’s Justice League finally saw the light in 2021, released as an exclusive of the now-defunct HBO Max. The film features a more compelling narrative than its cursed 2017 predecessor, framing Cyborg as the Justice League’s heart and returning Cavill’s Superman to its more stoic, guarded version.
Dark – literally – but surprisingly hopeful, Zack Snyder’s Justice League is arguably the best film in the soon-to-be-over DCEU.
 Cavill is in it only toward the end, but his performance is perhaps the best of his tenure in the role, mainly because it feels like both a triumphant return and a satisfying goodbye.
Zack Snyder’s Justice League gives the Last Son of Krypton a suitably epic showcase, allowing Cavill to take flight in the iconic suit one last time.
3. Enola Holmes 2 (2022) Enola Holmes 2. Henry Cavill as Sherlock Holmes, Millie Bobby Brown as Enola Holmes, Louis Partridge as Tewkesbury. Cr. Alex Bailey/Netflix © 2022 / Image via Netflix Millie Bobbie Brown stars as Sherlock Holmes’ younger sister in Netflix’s mystery/comedy franchise Enola Holmes. Cavill co-stars as the famous detective, acting as the straight man and foil to Brown’s bubbly, resourceful mini detective. Although he did fine in the first film, he shines in the sequel with an expanded role and a side storyline that introduces Holmes’ nemesis, Moriarty.
The Enola Holmes series is all about Brown’s title character. However, Enola Holmes 2 excels by showcasing the sibling dynamic between Sherlock and Enola, which, in many ways, replaces Holmes’ iconic banter with his usual companion, Dr. Watson. Cavill’s Holmes is a lot more charming than Benedict Cumberbatch’s or Robert Downey Jr.’s; while they opt for a traditional approach to playing the infamous detective, Cavill introduces some levity into the mix, playing Sherlock like someone who’s very much aware of how appealing he is and loves it.
2. The Man from U.N.C.L.E. (2015) Image via Warner Bros, Guy Ritchie’s The Man from U.N.C.L.E.
adapts the beloved 1964 series into a sleek, stylish, and sexy spy thriller for the new millennium. Set at the height of the Cold War, the plot centers on a CIA thief-turned-spy and a KGB agent teaming up to stop two Nazi sympathizers from building an atomic device.
Cavill’s name is often thrown in the mix for potential James Bond candidates, and it’s easy to see why.
The Man from U.N.C.L.E.
is a perfect audition, with Cavill embodying everything that makes Bond Bond. He’s suave, confident, charming, cheeky, resourceful, occasionally ruthless, and endlessly entertaining. The film itself is quite good, benefitting from Ritchie’s style-over-substance approach and a stellar supporting cast, including Alicia Vikander and The Crown ‘s Elizabeth Debicki.
The Man from U.N.C.L.E.
is the Henry Cavill franchise we should’ve received, and it’s a shame we never got it. But it’s never too late, and with Cavill embracing the spy genre with upcoming projects like Argylle and two more Ritchie movies, perhaps we haven’t seen the last of his Napoleon Solo.
1. Mission: Impossible – Fallout (2018) Image via Paramount It’s not an overstatement to call Mission: Impossible the best action franchise currently. Tom Cruise stars as the iconic Ethan Hunt, the living manifestation of destiny tasked with increasingly perilous, world-ending missions that live up to the franchise’s title. The sixth entry, 2018’s Mission: Impossible – Fallout , sees Hunt teaming with Cavill’s August Walker, a SAC agent, to prevent a group of terrorists from getting their hands on three stolen plutonium cores.
By now, everyone should know Cavill is the film’s primary antagonist.
Fallout proves he should go all-in on villainous roles because, while he’s a good hero, he’s an utterly fascinating villain. Walker is the perfect enemy for Ethan, embodying the dangerous physicality and cold, clinical mind expected from an action antagonist while remaining engaging.
Fallout is a stellar action flick, largely because of its committed cast, led by the ever-fearless Cruise. However, Cavill steals the limelight more than once, to the point where his August Walker is often the first thing people think of when discussing the movie. He is a large reason for its success, and his loyal fans patiently wait for another equally ballsy film to light up his resumé.
Editors' Recommendations 7 best action movie scores, ranked The 7 best movie spies, ranked The best action scenes in the Mission: Impossible movies, ranked Action Entertainment November has been a great month for movies at Netflix, with the premiere of David Fincher's The Killer, and recent box office hits like Insidious: The Red Door and Spider-Man: Across the Spider-Verse. This week, the new additions include The Impossible, a 2012 survival thriller that has already landed on the list of the 10 most popular movies on Netflix. For younger viewers, Minions is also heating up the charts despite the pending departure of the other films in the franchise at the end of the month.
There's only one holiday weekend left in November, so what's the best way to stay on top of everything new on Netflix? Why, we are, of course. Our list of the best movies on Netflix right now is updated every Friday, even on holiday weekends, so you can easily find something for every movie lover in your life.
Entertainment Summer is long over, and the fall season is in full swing. It's now late 2023, and just about everyone is subscribed to Netflix and Hulu. But would you be surprised if I told you one of the most underrated streaming services around is Tubi? The upstart streamer has tons of new and old TV shows from every decade and every genre imaginable. Want to watch the buzziest series that aired on Max? Tubi has it. Are you feeling nostalgic about that old movie or cartoon you used to watch as a kid in the '80s or '90s? Chances are, Tubi has it.
Tubi has so much content that it can be hard to choose which shows and films are worth your time. Digital Trends is here to help you sort out which ones are worth watching. Even though the streaming service is free, time is valuable, and no one wants to waste it watching subpar content.
Entertainment Rather than waiting for the Thanksgiving holiday weekend, Apple TV+ and Netflix dropped two of their biggest shows of the fall this week. Netflix's The Crown kicked off its sixth and final season with four new episodes, while the Apple TV+ Godzilla-adjacent series Monarch: Legacy of Monster, dropped its first two episodes this week, with new episodes arriving weekly thereafter. Also this week, Scott Pilgrim Takes Off hits Netflix, while Max gets in on the act this week by premiering the second season of Julia.
Netflix, Amazon Prime Video, Hulu, Max, Apple TV+, Disney+, Paramount+, and Peacock still have new shows coming for the rest of November, including a handful arriving next week. But if you've been thinking about cutting back on your streaming bill, then perhaps you should consider signing up for the ad-supported tiers. In the meantime, keep reading for our weekly roundup of the best new shows to stream.
When you're done here, check out the best new movies to stream this week, as well as the best shows on Netflix, best shows on Hulu, best shows on Amazon Prime Video, and best shows on Disney+.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
