Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix F1 Live Stream Stranger Things Season 5 Best New Movies Most Popular Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney+ UFC Live Stream Best Movies on Disney+ Home Entertainment Guides Is The Expendables 4 streaming? By Blair Marnell Close After a nine-year absence, The Expendables are back in theaters for the fourth time.
Sylvester Stallone created the franchise to bring together the action stars of the past and present, and he’s back for one last turn as Barney Ross in The Expendables 4.
 Jason Statham is also back as Lee Christmas, the new leader of the team alongside his fellow returning cast members including Dolph Lundgren as Gunner Jensen and Randy Couture as Toll Road.
Is The Expendables 4 streaming? Will The Expendables 4 be available to stream at home? Megan Fox’s Gina is among the new additions to the team, alongside Curtis “50 Cent” Jackson as Easy Day, Jacob Scipio as Galan, and Levy Tran as Lash, with Tony Jaa as Decha, a former member of the team. Andy Garcia co-stars as the team’s new CIA contact, Marsh, while Iko Uwais portrays the film’s villain, Suarto Rahmat. Scott Waugh directed the film from a screenplay by Kurt Wimmer, Tad Daggerhart, and Max Adams. The story was written by Spenser Cohen, Kurt Wimmer, and Tad Daggerhart.
Now, it’s time to answer your burning question about whether The Expendables 4 is streaming right now.
The 7 best Sylvester Stallone action movies, ranked Is Meg 2: The Trench streaming? Where to watch Macy’s 4th of July Fireworks 2023: live stream the event for free Is The Expendables 4 streaming? Lionsgate No , not yet. Lionsgate doesn’t tend to do day-and-date streaming and theatrical releases. Plus, The Expendables 4 is the kind of action flick that’s going to play better on the big screen. And considering that there was a gap of nine years between The Expendables 3 and The Expendables 4 , this sequel needs to do really well if there’s ever going to be an Expendables 5.
 This movie was Stallone’s way of passing the torch to Statham, but none of these guys are getting any younger. There’s only so long that they can keep playing action heroes.
Additionally, September is traditionally a weak month for movies.
The Expendables 4 is projected to take home $15 million to $17 million this weekend, which might be enough to take the top spot at the box office. Next week, the competition gets more intense when Saw X and The Creator arrive in theaters as well.
Will The Expendables 4 be available to stream at home? Lionsgate Yes, eventually. But don’t hold your breath. Because Lionsgate still owns the cable channel Starz, the studio’s theatrical films tend to go to Starz before streaming anywhere else. As an example, Lionsgate’s John Wick: Chapter 4 is currently only available to view or stream on Starz unless you’re willing to pay more to rent or buy it from digital outlets.
The Expendables 4 will likely follow a similar timeframe, and the soonest that you can find this film on a streamer other than Starz will be in mid-to-late 2024 at the earliest.
The Expendables 4 is now playing in theaters.
Editors' Recommendations All The Expendables movies, ranked 5 Sylvester Stallone movies you should watch in September 7 best Jason Statham action movies, ranked Action heroes reunite in first trailer for The Expendables 4 Is there a John Wick 4 streaming date? Action Entertainment For most of its critically acclaimed run, Netflix's Ozark has focused on Marty (Jason Bateman) and Wendy Byrde (Laura Linney) as they found themselves pulled deeper and deeper into the criminal underworld. But in the first look at Ozark's final episodes, Julia Garner's Ruth Langmore takes the spotlight away from the Byrde family. In the first part of Ozark season 4, Ruth vowed to get her revenge on would-be drug lord Javier "Javi" Elizondro (Alfonso Herrera). She may get what she wants, but there's no guarantee that she will make it out alive.
Netflix has dropped the first teaser trailer for Ozark season 4, part 2, which is narrated by Ruth, who shares her belief that her family is cursed. The Langmores are a criminal family, and Ruth doesn't pretend that they're innocent, or even that she is. Ruth has actively taken part in the family business. But after Javier murdered her cousin, Wyatt Langmore (Charlie Tahan), and her business partner, Darlene Snell (Lisa Emery), Ruth told the Byrdes that they would have to kill her to stop her from avenging her loss.
Entertainment Marty (Jason Bateman) and Wendy Byrde (Laura Linney) got what they wanted in Ozark season 3: They survived. However, some juicy new footage from the new "official" trailer for Ozark season 4 suggests that the Byrde family's troubles are far from over.
Warning: Spoilers ahead! Marty and Wendy's icy rival, the ruthless lawyer Helen Pierce (Janet McTeer), wanted them dead. But Omar Navarro (Felix Solis) decided to kill Helen and stick with the Byrdes. The trailer does shed some light on Omar's choice. He believes that the Byrdes can help him negotiate a deal that will keep him out of prison and allow him to move to America. But that's much easier said than done.
Audio / Video A Chromecast, Roku Streaming Stick+, or a Fire TV Stick 4K are all great ways to access popular streaming services on your TV, but picking between these choices can also be a challenge.
The good news is that we’ve reviewed all the options for you, and categorized them by how user-friendly these products are, their processing power, games, video quality, and other important factors that can influence which product you end up purchasing.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
