Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Netflix Original Movies Best Comedies on Netflix Best Netflix Original Series Best Anime on Netflix Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Fantasy Movies on Netflix Home Entertainment Guides 3 Keanu Reeves Netflix movies you need to watch now By Guillermo Kurten Close His down-to-earth off-screen personality aside, fans have embraced Keanu Reeves as a cult-classic action and comedy actor in the last decade. He’s undoubtedly had a resurgence in recent years thanks to the lucrative and continued success of the over-the-top John Wick action series, with Reeves and director Chad Stahelski’s John Wick: Chapter 4 earning universal critical acclaim and becoming the highest-grossing installment in the franchise thanks to a $432 million box office haul.
47 Ronin (2013) Always Be My Maybe (2019) Replicas (2018) And while Netflix’s backlog is rather thin when it comes to the actor’s filmography, it has a unique mix of movies for subscribers to stream. Whether it’s the corny Eastern fantasy of 47 Ronin or his supporting role in the endearing romantic comedy Always Be My Maybe , there are a few noteworthy Keanu Reeves additions to Netflix.
47 Ronin (2013) Universal Pictures An extremely loose interpretation of 17th-century Japan, Reeves stars in 47 Ronin as an original character who’s part of the titular group of samurai. Directed by Carl Rinsch, the movie follows Kai (played by Reeves), a half-Japanese, half-English orphan adopted by daimyo Asano Naganori’s household, who’s eventually trained to be a member of the 47 Ronin who seeks to avenge the death of their lord.
5 bad 2000s action movies that you still need to watch right now The best Black movies on Netflix right now The best feel-good movies on Netflix right now The movie certainly makes no secret of not trying to adhere to historical accounts in this adaptation, weaving in elements of sorcery in this world. While the movie was critically panned upon release in 2013 and bombed at the box office, 47 Ronin has found new life on Netflix. It’s one of the many benefits of streaming as a platform, with Reeves’ samurai fantasy epic proving to be an enjoyably cheesy time upon reappraisal.
Always Be My Maybe (2019) Netflix The most well-received of the movies featuring Keanu Reeves on Netflix, Always Be My Maybe is a romantic comedy telling the story of childhood friends rekindling their relationship. Directed by Nahnatchka Khan ( Fresh Off the Boat series creator), Always Be My Maybe follows Marcus Kim (played by Randall Park) and Sasha Tran (played by Beef ‘s Ali Wong), who were friends before becoming disconnected after a teenage romantic fling went poorly.
Sixteen years later, Marcus still lives and works with his widowed father while Sasha went on to become a renowned celebrity chef. Entertainingly enough, Keanu Reeves plays himself as Sasha’s new boyfriend, which creates friction between him and Marcus. The Netflix original movie was well-received thanks to the charming chemistry between its co-leads and its tasteful uses of social commentary throughout.
Replicas (2018) Motion Studios Though not nearly as well-received critically as Keanu Reeves’ other contemporary movies, Replicas is another movie to earn a second lease on life through Netflix. Directed by Jeffrey Nachmanoff ( Traitor ), this sci-fi thriller stars Reeves as William Foster, a biomedical research scientist who breaks the law, as well as the rules of bioethics, by attempting to resurrect his wife and three daughters, all of whom were killed in a tragic car accident.
His use of cloning and android technology sparks a controversial and chaotic turn of events. The movie was similarly panned and also bombed at the box office, but it’s since found a new audience on Netflix that appreciates it for what it is — corny writing, wonky special effects, and all.
Replicas arguably falls under the category of movies that are so bad that they’re good.
Editors' Recommendations 3 movies and TV shows like the hit Max series Julia you should watch right now The 50 best movies on Netflix right now (November 2023) The 10 most popular movies on Netflix right now 6 best TV shows you need to watch in December 3 sci-fi movies on Paramount+ you need to watch in November Action Netflix Streaming Services Entertainment Science fiction, as a genre, can demand a lot from the actors involved. They're tasked with reciting the kind of scientific mumbo jumbo that all sci-fi scripts contain and are forced to find ways to make it compelling.
Great sci-fi actors know how to leverage their on-screen personas to create compelling characters, even if those characters live in a world that is not exactly like our own. These seven actors proved that sci-fi is a genre that can be conquered by the right presence.
Sigourney Weaver Entertainment The best stand-up comedy on Netflix right now is both current with the times and as old as the genre itself. Pete Holmes and Beth Stelling are among the new additions to the streaming service -- the latter is definitely a comedian worth getting to know. Additionally, classic sets from the likes of Ali Wong, Dave Chappelle, John Mulaney, and more are available at the touch of a button.
With new movies and shows coming to Netflix all the time, the stand-up comedy selection is always growing. We've parsed through the details and pulled out the best stand-up comedy on Netflix right now.
Looking for something else? We've also rounded up the best movies on Netflix, the best movies on Hulu, the best movies on Amazon Prime, and the best movies on Disney+. For Netflix fans, check out the 10 most popular shows on Netflix right now.
Pete Holmes: I Am Not for Everyone (2023) new Entertainment Who's in the mood for an action film? Netflix has an impressive slate of action films that only improves with the addition of new films every month. New arrivals include Liam Neeson's Cold Pursuit, David Fincher's The Killer, and Adam Wingard's Godzilla vs. Kong.
This November, we curated a list of three action movies you need to watch on Netflix. Our action picks include one of the best war movies ever made, an underrated Clint Eastwood thriller, and Michael Bay at his finest.
Saving Private Ryan (1998) Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
