Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix F1 Live Stream Stranger Things Season 5 Best New Movies Most Popular Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney+ UFC Live Stream Best Movies on Disney+ Home Entertainment Guides 7 most disappointing 2023 movies so far By David Caballero Close We are halfway through 2023, and it’s been a great year for cinema.
The one-two-punch of Barbie and Oppenheimer did wonders for the box office, reminding audiences of the magic of cinema and bringing them back to the movie theaters in floods. Still, not everything has been perfect. For every Barbenheimer , there’s a Shazam! Fury of the Gods.
Ant-Man and the Wasp: Quantumania You People Shazam! Fury of the Gods Ghosted Fast X Indiana Jones and the Dial of Destiny Haunted Mansion These films aren’t necessarily bad, but they are disappointing. Whether because of their lazy plots, uninspired choices, questionable acting, or a combination of all these factors, these movies didn’t live up to audiences’ lofty expectations. And it’s a shame because some had everything they needed to go all the way, but alas, they ended up being bitter disappointments.
Ant-Man and the Wasp: Quantumania Image via Marvel Studios The long-awaited Ant-Man and the Wasp: Quantumania was supposed to be a major event. After all, it introduced the Multiverse Saga’s Big Bad, Kang, and prominently featured the Quantum Realm, which had been teased since at least 2015. But the film made more of a fizzle than a bang, confirming the MCU is in dire need of help.
The 5 best action movies of 2023 so far You need to watch these 5 movies in June 2023 Ant-Man and the Wasp wasted a promising cast in a lazy story with awful visual effects, clumsy dialogue, uninspired action, and infantile humor. The film turned off many lifelong MCU fans and ended its most underwhelming trilogy on an uninspired final note. This year is proving to be a turning point for the MCU, and Quantumania ‘s disappointment will surely play a large role in the universe’s eventual fall from grace.
You People Image via Netflix You People tells the story of Ezra and Amira, an interracial and interreligious couple dealing with culture clashes, modern romance, and each other’s families. The film boasts an impressive cast, including Jonah Hill, Lauren London, David Duchovny, Nia Long, Julia Louis-Dreyfus, and Eddie Murphy.
Despite an intriguing premise and a cast of A-list comedians, You People is neither funny nor clever enough to stand out from Netflix’s weekly releases. The film’s social commentary also falls flat, as do Hill and Murphy’s surprisingly subdued performances; rather than letting the two famous comedians let loose, director Kenya Barris restrains them, to the film’s ultimate detriment.
Shazam! Fury of the Gods Image via Warner Bros.
The first Shazam! came out in 2019 to tepid box office results ,but an enthusiastic critical reception. The sequel, 2023’s Shazam! Fury of the Gods , performed similarly commercially, but without critical support. Zachary Levi returns as the superhero Shazam, who, along with his extended family, must face the Daughters of Atlas.
Shazam! Fury of the Gods is perhaps the most disappointing film of the year. Following a genuinely sweet and inspiring first film, director David F. Sanberg had everything necessary to deliver another enchanting adventure. However, the misguided sequel sacrificed heart for a bombastic, lazy adventure that wasted a talented cast and a promising setup.
Fury of the Gods also has the most jarring, shameless instance of product placement in recent memory, contributing to its mediocre reception.
Ghosted Apple / Image via Apple TV+ Ana de Armas and Chris Evans reteamed for a third time in Dexter Fletcher’s action rom-com Ghosted.
 The plot centers on Cole, a shy man who falls head over heels for the beautiful, but mysterious Sadie. Chasing her to London, he realizes she is a CIA operative, and their second encounter becomes an international adventure with potentially world-ending stakes.
Ghosted has two charming and popular leads — one of whom had just received an Oscar nomination — an appealing premise, and a promising director. Imagine our disappointment with the result, an uninspired and boring excuse for a rom-com that lacks romance, thrills, and comedy. Evans is arguably miscast, and de Armas looks uninterested from the get-go.
Apple TV+ has several great movies worth the audience’s time, but unfortunately, Ghosted isn’t among them.
Fast X Universal Pictures The long-running Fast and Furious franchise may have finally overstayed its welcome. The Vin Diesel-led series premiered its tenth(!) film this year, Fast X , to a lukewarm critical and commercial reception. The plot follows Dom and his family facing the dangerously unstable Dante Reyes, played by a scrunchie-wearing, scenery-chewing, scene-stealing Jason Momoa.
Fast X is more of the same. Unlike other long-running franchises like Mission: Impossible , the Fast Saga refuses to grow or experiment outside its comfort zone. Thus, Fast X is repetitive and uninspired, finally making audiences wonder, “Why are we still here?” Momoa is incredible in the role and a truly brilliant, chaotic creation; he’s by far the best villain in the Fast Saga.
 Alas, not even he can save Fast X from mediocrity.
Indiana Jones and the Dial of Destiny Image via Lucasfilm Harrison Ford reprised the role of Indiana Jones for one last time in James Mangold’s Indiana Jones and the Dial of Destiny.
 Phoebe Waller-Bridge and perennial bad guy Mads Mikkelsen join him in a plot that sees Indy and his goddaughter, Helena (Bridge), trying to recover the powerful dial of destiny before a former Nazi scientist beats them to it.
Indiana Jones and the Dial of Destiny is an adequate film, but an underwhelming sendoff for one of the most iconic characters in American cinema. The film opened to average reviews and underperformed at the box office, especially considering its astronomical $300 million budget.
Indiana Jones is a beloved franchise, but its fourth and fifth entries prove that it might have been an excellent product of its time, rather than a decade-spanning cinematic event.
Haunted Mansion Walt Disney Pictures The last addition to the 2023 Hall of Shame is Disney’s Haunted Mansion.
 The second adaptation of the popular theme park attraction, Haunted Mansion stars an ensemble including LaKeith Stanfield, Rosario Dawson, Owen Wilson, Tiffany Haddish, Danny DeVito, and Jamie Lee Curtis. The plot follows a single mother who summons a group of esoteric specialists to help exorcise the many ghosts plaguing her new home.
Haunted Mansion is not outright awful; it’s too boring to be bad, which is worse. The film squanders a talented cast and an intriguing-enough premise in a series of sequences that are too lazy to be funny and too silly to be scary.
Haunted Mansion is the latest in a long line of Disney disappointments that suggest the Mouse House needs a quality intervention sooner rather than later.
Editors' Recommendations 7 most gruesome deaths in action movies The 10 most popular movies of 2023 5 upcoming comic book movies you have to see in 2023 Action Entertainment November has been a great month for movies at Netflix, with the premiere of David Fincher's The Killer, and recent box office hits like Insidious: The Red Door and Spider-Man: Across the Spider-Verse. This week, the new additions include The Impossible, a 2012 survival thriller that has already landed on the list of the 10 most popular movies on Netflix. For younger viewers, Minions is also heating up the charts despite the pending departure of the other films in the franchise at the end of the month.
There's only one holiday weekend left in November, so what's the best way to stay on top of everything new on Netflix? Why, we are, of course. Our list of the best movies on Netflix right now is updated every Friday, even on holiday weekends, so you can easily find something for every movie lover in your life.
Entertainment Summer is long over, and the fall season is in full swing. It's now late 2023, and just about everyone is subscribed to Netflix and Hulu. But would you be surprised if I told you one of the most underrated streaming services around is Tubi? The upstart streamer has tons of new and old TV shows from every decade and every genre imaginable. Want to watch the buzziest series that aired on Max? Tubi has it. Are you feeling nostalgic about that old movie or cartoon you used to watch as a kid in the '80s or '90s? Chances are, Tubi has it.
Tubi has so much content that it can be hard to choose which shows and films are worth your time. Digital Trends is here to help you sort out which ones are worth watching. Even though the streaming service is free, time is valuable, and no one wants to waste it watching subpar content.
Entertainment Rather than waiting for the Thanksgiving holiday weekend, Apple TV+ and Netflix dropped two of their biggest shows of the fall this week. Netflix's The Crown kicked off its sixth and final season with four new episodes, while the Apple TV+ Godzilla-adjacent series Monarch: Legacy of Monster, dropped its first two episodes this week, with new episodes arriving weekly thereafter. Also this week, Scott Pilgrim Takes Off hits Netflix, while Max gets in on the act this week by premiering the second season of Julia.
Netflix, Amazon Prime Video, Hulu, Max, Apple TV+, Disney+, Paramount+, and Peacock still have new shows coming for the rest of November, including a handful arriving next week. But if you've been thinking about cutting back on your streaming bill, then perhaps you should consider signing up for the ad-supported tiers. In the meantime, keep reading for our weekly roundup of the best new shows to stream.
When you're done here, check out the best new movies to stream this week, as well as the best shows on Netflix, best shows on Hulu, best shows on Amazon Prime Video, and best shows on Disney+.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
