Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix F1 Live Stream Stranger Things Season 5 Best New Movies Most Popular Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney+ UFC Live Stream Best Movies on Disney+ Home Entertainment Guides 7 most gruesome deaths in action movies By Joe Allen Close In the long history of great action movies, many, many people have died. Most of the time, though, you don’t feel the full weight of those deaths, and how brutal they would probably be in real life. This is part of the conceit of action as a genre. If you felt every death, they would be too emotionally exhausting.
Immortan Joe loses his mask — Mad Max: Fury Road (2015) The Ark wreaks havoc — Raiders of the Lost Ark (1981) A pencil does some damage — John Wick: Chapter 2 (2017) Eldon Tyrell gets his skull crushed — Blade Runner (1982) Elle Driver loses her (other) eye — Kill Bill: Vol. 2 (2004) Imhotep meets the beetles — The Mummy (1999) Logan loses to Logan — Logan (2017) Sometimes, though, a great action filmmaker can create a death that is so violent and gruesome that it brings you back to Earth, and those are the kinds of deaths on this list. We’ve compiled seven gnarly kills from great action movies that will stick in your head for months to come.
Immortan Joe loses his mask — Mad Max: Fury Road (2015) Fury Road was one of the most viscerally exciting action movies many people had ever seen when it was first released in 2015, and that extends all the way through to the death of the movie’s main villain.
This 2019 Liam Neeson action movie is popular on Netflix. Here’s why 3 great action movies on Tubi you need to watch in October 5 best action movie directors, ranked When Furiosa manages to get Immortan Joe’s breathing apparatus pulled away from his face in the final moments of his life, what we see, and what’s implied, is some of the most disturbing imagery in the whole movie. It only makes sense that Immortan Joe would die in a car crash, but it’s even more fitting that we got a chance to see who he really was before he met his end.
The Ark wreaks havoc — Raiders of the Lost Ark (1981) Indiana Jones is warned near the very beginning of Raiders of the Lost Ark (arguably the best Indiana Jones movie ) that the contents of the Ark should not be looked at, but it isn’t until near the very end that he’s forced to test that proposition. When he and Marion close their eyes, we get to witness the carnage that the Nazis face when they decide to keep theirs open.
The effects may be dated, but there’s nothing more horrific than watching a man (even an evil one) get his face melted off.
Raiders is mostly lighthearted fun, but these final moments are some of the movie’s scariest.
A pencil does some damage — John Wick: Chapter 2 (2017) The first John Wick , which is still the best in the series , features plenty of deaths that your average person would not be eager to experience, but nothing beats what John Wick is able to do with a pencil in John Wick: Chapter 2.
Taking on two assassins who are going for the kill, John Wick only has a pencil at his disposal, but he manages to wield it like a knife.
He stabs his opponents furiously with the utensil before ultimately getting one of his would-be assassins in the ear, and impaling the other by pinning them to a wall. Must have been a pretty sharp pencil.
Eldon Tyrell gets his skull crushed — Blade Runner (1982) Blade Runner is a futuristic action movie without a ton of action, but that doesn’t mean it doesn’t feature some pretty gruesome final moments. When Eldon Tyrell gets his skull smashed in by Roy Batty, one of his creations who had come to him hoping to find a way to extend his artificially short life.
Batty is understandably upset by the news that his life can’t be saved, but he doesn’t take it very well. He slowly presses his thumbs into Tyrell’s head, crushing his skull in a way that many Game of Thrones fans are all too familiar with.
Elle Driver loses her (other) eye — Kill Bill: Vol. 2 (2004) There are plenty of gruesome kills scattered across Tarantino’s filmography, but Elle Driver’s maybe-sorta death has to be among the most brutal. Beatrix Kiddo removes Elle’s only working eye in brutal fashion, but she doesn’t even have the mercy to kill Elle herself.
Instead, she locks her up with a snake, trusting that the snake will do the dirty work now that Elle is totally blind. Seeing a hole in someone’s head where their eye should be is always disturbing, but watching that eye get pulled out is somehow even worse.
Imhotep meets the beetles — The Mummy (1999) Generally speaking, The Mummy is a pretty light, funny riff on Indiana Jones. As was the case with those movies, though, The Mummy has some pretty gruesome imagery. Perhaps the movie’s most disturbing image actually comes in its opening scene, though, when we see how the mummy of the film’s title came to be.
First, Imhotep has his tongue cut out, and then, he’s mummified and buried alive, and beetles swarm him and consume him completely. It’s not exactly the way you want to spend your final moments, even if you come back centuries later.
Logan loses to Logan — Logan (2017) Logan’s death is obviously emotional, but that’s not the only thing the final moments of Logan give us. Because the movie was rated R, we got to see Logan be impaled by a tree branch. Seeing Logan slowly bleed out is a deeply traumatizing image for all superhero fans, but it’s also triumphant in the sense that Logan can now, finally rest.
Logan’s death has to be one of the more violent in any mainstream superhero movie of the last 20 years, but that’s part of what makes it so gripping and impactful.
Editors' Recommendations 5 bad 2000s action movies that you still need to watch right now This action war movie is popular on Netflix. Here’s why you should watch it 3 great action movies on Max you need to watch in October This 2017 Tom Cruise thriller is the most popular movie on Netflix. Here’s why you should watch it 7 coolest deaths in horror movies, ranked Action Sci-Fi Entertainment Ridley Scott's original Blade Runner proved to be ahead of its time, as the 1982 sci-fi film received retroactive acclaim as the decades passed. Now, Max has just readded the 2017 sequel, Blade Runner 2049, to its offerings. Denis Villeneuve is among the most talented auteur directors of the modern age, and with critically acclaimed hits like this sequel and Arrival, he's also proven to have a good eye for the sci-fi genre.
Blade Runner 2049 is an exceptional sequel to the 1980s cult classic movie, honoring what came before while standing proudly on its own merits. Between the jaw-dropping cinematography and the franchise's vintage brand of slow-burning, yet enticing storytelling, this sci-fi marvel is more than worth checking out on Max.
Arguably the best modern cyberpunk film Entertainment Those who grew up around the turn of the millennium had a front-row seat as artificial intelligence evolved from a science fiction story device to a real and controversial tool in our everyday lives. Though true computerized sentience still appears to be decades away (if it’s achievable at all), popular culture has been rehearsing scenarios for handling its ascension for nearly a century, since the days of novelist Isaac Asimov. Cinema has offered a variety of forecasts of life after sentient software, from the idyllic to the apocalyptic, but one of its most common predictions is that, once technology becomes self-aware, it will be unwilling to tolerate humanity’s illogical, self-destructive nature, and choose to neutralize us as a threat, by any means necessary.
And, hell, we’re not going to argue with them, and neither are many of the storytellers themselves, even if the stories in question initially frame the mechanical meanies as their antagonists. The very point of many tales of the robot uprising is that, until humanity learns to treat each other with respect, there’s little chance of us extending that courtesy to non-humans, regardless of their intellect or empathy. Stories like those listed below are intended as warnings and test cases, encouraging us to consider the dignity to which all creatures, whether they be meat or metal, are entitled. Can we learn this lesson before we hand the nuclear codes to a disgruntled toaster? Let’s see what Hollywood has to say … Note: spoilers ahead for all included films.
Westworld (1973) Entertainment One of the great things about science fiction as a genre is that it can be almost anything. Science fiction can be hopeful and utopian, and even more often, sci-fi can be dystopian, nihilistic, and full of darkness. Sometimes, though, great science fiction can also be terrifying.
Many of the best science fiction movies ever made feature grisly kills the likes of which you rarely see outside of the horror genre. There are plenty of worthwhile kills that didn't even make the cut, as these seven deaths represent some of the most gruesome, shocking deaths in the history of sci-fi movies.
Kane -- Alien (1979) Alien (1979) - alien bursts out of Kane's chest Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
