Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix F1 Live Stream Stranger Things Season 5 Best New Movies Most Popular Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney+ UFC Live Stream Best Movies on Disney+ Home Entertainment Guides Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Like TMNT: Mutant Mayhem? Then watch these 5 movies that are just like it By Joe Allen Close Coming off a wave of strong reviews and some pretty excellent trailers, Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles: Mutant Mayhem may be one of the best animated movies of the year.
Spider-Man: Into the Spider-Verse (2018) The Mitchells vs. the Machines (2021) The Lego Movie (2014) Ralph Breaks the Internet (2018) Big Hero 6 (2014) Although its animation style may seem innovative, and its storytelling unconventional, there are a few movies you could watch if you want to get ready for Mutant Mayhem , or if you’ve seen it and are hungry for something similar. These are five movies that bear a strong resemblance to Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles: Mutant Mayhem and ones you should watch if you like fun, animated movies.
Spider-Man: Into the Spider-Verse (2018) The movie that seemed to most directly inspire Mutant Mayhem is almost undoubtedly Into the Spider-Verse , which uses a similar animation style and overall tone as this new release.
Into the Spider-Verse felt somewhat revolutionary upon its release in 2018, and its sequel, Across the Spider-Verse , proved that that first installment wasn’t a fluke.
5 bad 2000s action movies that you still need to watch right now 5 movies like Netflix’s The Killer you should watch right now Like the hit Netflix show All The Light We Cannot See? Then watch these 5 best WWII dramas Following a young Miles Morales as he gets his powers and eventually meets Spider-Men from multiple dimensions, Into the Spider-Verse is stylish, trippy, poignant, and pretty close to perfect.
Spider-Man: Into the Spider-Verse is available to rent or purchase on digital platforms.
The Mitchells vs. the Machines (2021) Another movie that takes advantage of a unique blend of animation styles, The Mitchells vs. the Machines follows a family who discovers they’re the only survivors of a robot apocalypse. As they attempt to win back control from the machines, we hone in on the relationship between the film’s main character, Katie, and her dad, as they attempt to heal a rift that’s formed between them.
The movie is sweet and tender about what it means to grow up, but it’s also jam-packed with more jokes than you could possibly catch on your first time through. Thankfully, this is the kind of movie worth rewatching over and over again.
The Mitchells vs. the Machines is streaming on Netflix.
The Lego Movie (2014) Another movie that felt like it was breaking new ground in animation, The Lego Movie is set in a world made entirely of Legos in which one regular construction worker is chosen to defeat the evil Lord Business. Like many of the movies on this list, this one is chock-full of great jokes and also has a pretty thoughtful message about the joy of creativity.
Does the movie also do a lot of work to promote Legos as a toy? Of course. But The Lego Movie is about the joy of making something beautiful, even if you do it with little plastic toys that you should avoid stepping on at all costs.
The Lego Movie is streaming on Max.
Ralph Breaks the Internet (2018) Movies about the internet tend to be either great or terrible, and Ralph Breaks the Internet falls firmly into that second category. The film follows Ralph and Vanellope von Schweetz as they travel into the internet in search of a replacement part for Van’s game.
Once they arrive there, though, they quickly realize that the internet is a much bigger and more wild place than they could ever have imagined.
Ralph Breaks the Internet may feature a few gratuitous cameos, but on the whole, it’s exactly the kind of film that Disney should be making much more frequently.
Ralph Breaks the Internet is streaming on Disney+.
Big Hero 6 (2014) Big Hero 6 is Disney’s only attempt to make an out-and-out superhero movie in its animation department, and for the most part, it was a rollicking success. Following a young boy in the aftermath of tremendous loss as he uses Baymax , his inflatable robot, to help him save his city from destruction.
Big Hero 6 may be the most conventional of the movies on this list, but it’s got a huge heart, and that makes up for any plot conveniences you may encounter as you make your way through it.
Big Hero 6 is streaming on Disney+.
Editors' Recommendations 3 movies and TV shows like the hit Max series Julia you should watch right now 5 sci-fi movies on Netflix you need to watch in November 5 movies to watch if you liked The Marvels 5 movies on Hulu that are perfect to watch in the fall 5 movies like Five Nights at Freddy’s you should watch right now Action Entertainment The best sci-fi movies often push the boundaries of what's possible to depict on the big screen by taking on complex fictional concepts that are often rooted in reality. Recent films in the category embrace the intersection between science, philosophy, and humanity, and use mind-blowing visuals and cutting-edge cinematography to bolster filmmakers' ambitious efforts.
From the visually stunning and otherworldly story told in Dune to the mind-bending mix of existentialism and the multiverse in Everything Everywhere All at Once, the greatest science fiction movies from the past five years represent the best that the genre has to offer. With so much to explore in the genre, these are the few standouts that should be considered essential viewing for fans.
Ad Astra (2019) Entertainment We're in the heart of fall. The leaves are different colors, the weather is colder, and the bathing suits have been traded in for sweatshirts. One thing that doesn't change is the influx of movies on Netflix every month. From comedies and dramas to horrors and thrillers, Netflix always provides subscribers with thousands of options.
Below, we have curated a list of five movies that are perfect to watch this fall. Our selections include two films starring Jennifer Lawrence, a basketball drama, an excellent black comedy, and a baseball classic.
No Hard Feelings (2023) Entertainment It's officially spooky season, meaning it's finally time to binge as many horror movies as we can get our hands on.
One of the best parts of the Halloween season is celebrating with scary movies whether they feature goofy ghouls or bloody slashers. Unfortunately, this October doesn't have many big-time horror movies coming to theaters, though. The largest horror release would go to Five Nights at Freddy's on October 27, but the rest of the theater slate leaves much to be desired for horror fans. Thankfully, though, various streaming services are loading up their platforms with spooky hits to satiate our desires.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
