Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix F1 Live Stream Stranger Things Season 5 Best New Movies Most Popular Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney+ UFC Live Stream Best Movies on Disney+ Home Entertainment Guides Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? 5 great comics to read before Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles: Mutant Mayhem By Christopher Hinton Close Cowabunga, dudes! If we were still living in the ’80s or ’90s, the radical heroes in a half-shell who thwart criminals using the martial art of ninjutsu while chowing down on pizza would be all the rage. The Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles exploded into pop culture fandom after indie creators Kevin Eastman and Peter Laird optioned their comic book creations for an animated TV series, movies, and an array of expansive merchandise. Children everywhere were spouting the same surfer-bro taglines as heard from the Turtles, playing with their TMNT action figures, and wearing ugly green and yellow apparel.
Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles Issues 1-7 (1984) Tales of the Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles Issues 1-7 (987-1988) Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles Adventures 1 (1988) Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles 73-75 (2017) The Last Ronin (2020-2022) While TMNT may have experienced a dip in demand and popularity from their ’80s and ’90s heyday, the Turtles never went away. In fact, they’ve consistently headlined animated series after animated series have continued being featured in films, video games, and toy lines. They’re now experiencing something of a resurgence with the help of video games like Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles: Shredder’s Revenge and the latest cinematic adventure Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles: Mutant Mayhem.
 But let’s not forget, it was the comic book medium that gave the turtles their big start. If Mutant Mayhem has reignited your interest in the Turtles, there are a few mighty enthralling comic book adventures to read that might be up your alley.
Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles Issues 1-7 (1984) Mirage/IDW Publishing Why not start where it all began? Kevin Eastman and Peter Laird’s original series is absolutely the best place to begin. But make no mistake, the original comics were more violent and gritty than the classic animated TV series or Mutant Mayhem designed for young children. The Turtles occasionally swear, brutalize the Foot, and even attempt to force Shredder into committing seppuku – the ancient act of ritual suicide.
3 Netflix animated movies like Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles: Mutant Mayhem Like TMNT: Mutant Mayhem? Then watch these 5 movies that are just like it Where to watch all the Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles movies and TV shows While the original comic art was in black and white, you can find these seven issues in a collected colorized edition in comic stores or through online outlets like Amazon. These are the most basic intro to the Turtles and what started the entire pop culture phenomenon.
Tales of the Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles Issues 1-7 (987-1988) Mirage/IDW Publishing Truthfully, you could read any and all of the issues under the Tales of the Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles label considering this entire series is a continuing anthology. However, Kevin Eastman and Peter Laird began the series as a means of building out the TMNT world and introducing new characters and villains. In keeping with the theme of Mutant Mayhem, which is quite literally an explosive cast of mutants from throughout the Turtles’ history, Tales will introduce you to some of these characters’ very first appearances.
Leatherhead, while gender-swapped for the Mutant Mayhem film, receives his first appearance in issue #6. The Turtles also go head-to-head with the Rat King, who would become an iconic nemesis for the gang. There’s plenty of world-building fun to be had in this series.
Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles Adventures 1 (1988) Mirage/IDW Publishing The goofy, villainous duo of Bebop and Rocksteady are staples within the TMNT franchise. Bebop, a mutated warthog, and Rocksteady, a mutated rhinoceros, were once human gangsters that the Shredder subjected to mutations in conjunction with their respective animal traits. Bebop and Rocksteady are often bumbling fools that act as punching bags for the turtles. Their lack of intellect is often played for comedic relief. They were originally created specifically for the animated TV series in an effort to generate more characters for toys and merchandise.
They eventually made their way to the comic book medium with their first appearance in Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles Adventures #1.
 This comic book series is actually meant to adapt the animated television show in the comic book format and even utilizes the same TMNT logo and branding as the show. While this TMNT comic book series is more in line with the 1987 animated series’ age level in terms of content, it’s still a fun read for any fan of the series, young or old.
Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles 73-75 (2017) IDW Publishing This three-issue arc published by IDW is known as The Trial of Krang.
 The storyline is filled with mutants and aliens galore, and, as the title implies, Krang is on trial in Dimension X on the Neutrino planet for his crimes. The Turtles arrive to view the trial but find that Leatherhead is present to act as a witness in the trial. As the trial begins, the prosecutor, Councilor Apap is killed by an assassin and all mayhem breaks loose.
At one point the Triceratons enter the mix as they endeavor to save the Neutrino world from an alien swarm with the promise that they’ll receive their own planet should they be successful. Things get messy as the Turtles attempt to get to the bottom of the assassination while dealing with the Triceraton conflict. The arc features the most vibrant and gnarly characters that are reminiscent of the Mutant Mayhem cast.
The Last Ronin (2020-2022) IDW Publishing Truthfully, this masterpiece doesn’t have much in common with the light-hearted and cartoony affair at the center of Mutant Mayhem other than the Turtles themselves. It’s a book that adult fans of the franchise will surely appreciate. It represents a facet of the series that has ultimately grown up with the audience that the TMNT franchise cultivated as youngsters in the ’90s. And it’s written by TMNT’s co-creator, Kevin Eastman.
This five-issue miniseries tells the story of a single remaining turtle in a dystopian future who is combating the oppressive regime of the Shredder’s grandson. The other three Turtles as well as Splinter are deceased, though the book tells the story of how these deaths came to pass in flashbacks. The identity of the Turtle waging war against Oroku Saki isn’t revealed until the end of the first issue — so we won’t spoil it here. Still, this dark and dreary world is reminiscent of Frank Miller’s The Dark Knight Returns , which is appropriate given that the esteemed author’s take on Daredevil inspired Eastman and Laird to create TMNT in the first place. The remaining Turtle is out for blood as he seeks to fulfill the Bushido code by bringing honor to his family through the demise of the Oroku bloodline. It’s a riveting tale for the most devout TMNT fan.
Editors' Recommendations Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles: Mutant Mayhem is a huge disappointment Is Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles: Mutant Mayhem streaming? All the Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles movies and TV shows, ranked 5 movies you need to watch in August 2023 Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles take on Superfly in Mutant Mayhem trailer Action Entertainment The Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles are back in the first teaser trailer for the new animated movie Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles: Mutant Mayhem. The footage depicts the crimefighting turtles as teenagers trying to find their place in New York City.
Four young actors voice the four turtles: The Walking Dead: World Beyond's Nicolas Cantu (Leonardo), Cousins for Life's Micah Abbey (Donatello), The Chi's Shamon Brown Jr. (Michelangelo), and The Mighty Ducks: Game Changers' Brady Noon (Raphael).
Entertainment November has been a great month for movies at Netflix, with the premiere of David Fincher's The Killer, and recent box office hits like Insidious: The Red Door and Spider-Man: Across the Spider-Verse. This week, the new additions include The Impossible, a 2012 survival thriller that has already landed on the list of the 10 most popular movies on Netflix. For younger viewers, Minions is also heating up the charts despite the pending departure of the other films in the franchise at the end of the month.
There's only one holiday weekend left in November, so what's the best way to stay on top of everything new on Netflix? Why, we are, of course. Our list of the best movies on Netflix right now is updated every Friday, even on holiday weekends, so you can easily find something for every movie lover in your life.
Entertainment Summer is long over, and the fall season is in full swing. It's now late 2023, and just about everyone is subscribed to Netflix and Hulu. But would you be surprised if I told you one of the most underrated streaming services around is Tubi? The upstart streamer has tons of new and old TV shows from every decade and every genre imaginable. Want to watch the buzziest series that aired on Max? Tubi has it. Are you feeling nostalgic about that old movie or cartoon you used to watch as a kid in the '80s or '90s? Chances are, Tubi has it.
Tubi has so much content that it can be hard to choose which shows and films are worth your time. Digital Trends is here to help you sort out which ones are worth watching. Even though the streaming service is free, time is valuable, and no one wants to waste it watching subpar content.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
