Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix F1 Live Stream Stranger Things Season 5 Best New Movies Most Popular Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney+ UFC Live Stream Best Movies on Disney+ Home Entertainment Guides Is Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles: Mutant Mayhem streaming? By Blair Marnell Close It’s been seven years since Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles: Out of the Shadows left theaters, but the TMNT are making a comeback this week with Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles: Mutant Mayhem.
 This CGI-animated film definitely seems to be taking its cues from Sony’s Spider-Verse movies, and Jeff Rowe directed it from a script he co-wrote with executive producers Seth Rogen and Evan Goldberg, as well as Dan Hernandez and Benji Samit. Rogen, Goldberg, and Rowe share the story credit with Brendan O’Brien.
Is Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles: Mutant Mayhem streaming? Will Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles: Mutant Mayhem be available to stream at home? This reboot re-envisions Donatello (Micah Abbey), Michelangelo (Shamon Brown Jr.), Leonardo (Nicolas Cantu), and Raphael (Brady Noon) as actual teenagers who want to find some way to be welcome among humans. They are also somewhat obsessed with social media. The Turtles were raised by their adoptive father, Master Splinter (Jackie Chan), and their first human friend is a young woman named April O’Neil (Ayo Edebiri).
The Turtles mistakenly believe that they can get the acceptance they desire if they take down Superfly (Ice Cube), the leader of a gang of mutants who have their own plans to dominate humanity. Hannibal Buress also co-stars in the film as the voice of Genghis Frog, with Rose Byrne as Leatherhead, John Cena as Rocksteady, Seth Rogen as Bebop, Natasia Demetriou as Wingnut, Giancarlo Esposito as Baxter Stockman, Post Malone as Ray Fillet, Paul Rudd as Mondo Gecko, and Maya Rudolph as Cynthia Utrom.
Is PAW Patrol: The Mighty Movie streaming? 3 Netflix animated movies like Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles: Mutant Mayhem Like TMNT: Mutant Mayhem? Then watch these 5 movies that are just like it Now, it’s time to answer the question that brought you here.
Is Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles: Mutant Mayhem streaming? Paramount Pictures / Paramount Pictures No , not yet.
Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles: Mutant Mayhem has only just arrived in theaters this week. And while August tends to be the weakest month at the summer box office, Paramount Pictures and Nickelodeon are hopeful that Mutant Mayhem can find its footing without being swallowed whole by the Barbenheimer phenomenon.
 For now, it’s not clear if Mutant Mayhem will finish ahead of Oppenheimer or Barbie during its opening weekend.
Will Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles: Mutant Mayhem be available to stream at home? Paramount Pictures Absolutely! You can bet that this will be one of the biggest additions to Paramount+ this fall ahead of the holiday season. It may get some extra time between its streaming premiere and its exit from theaters in order to give the studio a chance to release the film on Blu-ray and 4k Ultra HD.
 The TMNT films have a fan base all of their own, and it would make sense to cater to those fans first. Additionally, Paramount’s streaming deal with Amazon Prime Video means that Mutant Mayhem may stream on Prime Video as soon as early 2024.
In the meantime, you can watch almost every single Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles TV series or movie on Paramount+, and all of the details are right here.
Editors' Recommendations Paramount+ launches Tis the Season for Streaming holiday collection Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles: Mutant Mayhem is a huge disappointment 5 great comics to read before Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles: Mutant Mayhem All the Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles movies and TV shows, ranked Where to watch all the Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles movies and TV shows Action Paramount+ Entertainment Last year, the movie industry was on shaky ground. The COVID recovery was still in its earliest stages, and while there were hits like Top Gun: Maverick, there were fewer movies actually showing in theaters. Worst of all was the month of August, when only one big Hollywood movie, the mediocre action comedy Bullet Train, was released.
What a difference a year makes. In August 2023, Hollywood has packed the slate with a diverse selection of movies ranging from a comic book movie (the sure-to-fail DC Comics movie Blue Beetle), a video game adaptation (Gran Turismo), and the usual mixture of action movies, thrillers, and comedies. Here are the five best movies you should check out in August, and why they are worth going to the movies to see.
Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles: Mutant Mayhem (August 2) Entertainment It's been five years since the release of Mission: Impossible - Fallout, but the latest film in the series has finally arrived. Tom Cruise and director Christopher McQuarrie have reunited for the new sequel, Mission: Impossible - Dead Reckoning Part 1, and this is a story that has finally given Ethan Hunt (Cruise) a foe that he can't easily dispatch. The Entity is something that Ethan has never had to contend with before, and it will push him and his team to their limits.
Mission: Impossible regulars Ving Rhames, Simon Pegg, and Rebecca Ferguson are all back as Luther Stickell, Benji Dunn, and Ilsa Faust, respectively. Vanessa Kirby also reprises her role from Fallout as the White Widow, Alanna Mitsopolis. And for the first time since the original Mission: Impossible film in 1996, Henry Czerny has returned as IMF director Eugene Kittridge.
Entertainment The robots in disguise are back in Transformers: Rise of the Beasts, the seventh installment in the live-action Transformers movies. This film is also the first time that characters from Beast Wars: Transformers have made it to the big screen. That means that Optimus Primal and his Maximals are teaming up with Optimus Prime and his Autobots against Unicron, an adversary who made his debut in The Transformers: The Movie in 1986.
Anthony Ramos headlines the film's human cast as Noah Diaz, with Dominique Fishback as Elena Wallace, Luna Lauren Vélez as Breanna Diaz, Tobe Nwigwe as Reek, Dean Scott Vazquez as Kris Diaz, Sarah Stiles as Jillian, and Michael Kelly as Agent Burke. However, the real stars are the Transformers themselves, starting with Peter Cullen as the voice of Optimus Prime, Pete Davidson as Mirage, Ron Perlman as Optimus Primal, Peter Dinklage as Scourge, Liza Koshy as Arcee, Michelle Yeoh as Airazor, Michaela Jaé Rodriguez as Nightbird, John DiMaggio as Stratosphere and Transit, Tongayi Chirisa as Cheetor, David Sobolov as Rhinox, Battletrap, and Apelinq, and Colman Domingo as Unicron.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
