Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix F1 Live Stream Stranger Things Season 5 Best New Movies Most Popular Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney+ UFC Live Stream Best Movies on Disney+ Home Entertainment Guides Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles: Mutant Mayhem is a huge disappointment By Jason Struss Close Paramount Pictures One of the summer’s most anticipated movies is finally here, and the verdict is almost unanimous: it’s a critical and commercial hit. No, I’m not talking about Barbie or Oppenheimer , but rather Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles: Mutant Mayhem , the latest reboot starring Paramount’s greenest and slimiest IP. This time around, they’re animated (again), and the movie’s unique look has drawn comparisons to the Spider-Verse movies from Sony. That’s high praise nowadays, and the consensus is that Mutant Mayhem has more than earned it.
It wastes a killer all-star villains lineup Supafly isn’t all that super (sorry, folks) April O’ Neil got Aaron Sorkined (that’s a bad thing) The climax is a ripoff from 2000’s X-Men and dozens of Godzilla movies It fundamentally misses the point of what makes the Turtles so appealing So why the hell did I leave disappointed and let down after the credits rolled? I’m a lifelong Turtles fan, but I’m not nitpicky; I’ve embraced the change the TMNT franchise has gone through over the years , from the kid-friendly animated series in the late ’80s to the Michael Bay-produced live-action movies from a decade ago to the last reinvention, the radically different (and quietly awesome) Rise of the Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles.
 And while Mutant Mayhem ‘s animation is stellar (more of this style please) and the characterization of the core four heroes is spot-on, the movie is let down by a litany of errors — a tired plot, a misuse of the franchise’s villains, a betrayal of April O’ Neil’s strong personality — that contributed to my ultimate disappointment.
Editor’s note: The following article contains major spoilers for Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles: Mutant Mayhem.
 Seriously, everything is spoiled. Reader beware! 5 great comics to read before Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles: Mutant Mayhem Like TMNT: Mutant Mayhem? Then watch these 5 movies that are just like it Where to watch all the Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles movies and TV shows It wastes a killer all-star villains lineup Paramount Pictures Rocksteady. Bebop. Baxter Stockman. Leatherface. Wingnut. When Mutant Mayhem ‘s lineup of villains was announced, it was like a geek buffet of noteworthy and deep-dive characters from the TMNT comics and cartoon shows. The writer and director had obviously done their homework, and wanted to come out of the gate swinging with an all-star lineup that didn’t rely on Shredder, Krang, or the Foot Clan to liven things up.
So why did they end up either sidelining them completely (Baxter appears briefly and then is killed off) or making them all allies of the Turtles by the end of the movie? What purpose did it serve to convert the Turtles rogues’ gallery to the side of the angels after only one movie? None. Bebop should not be helping Donatello destroy an enemy; he should be pummeling him with his fists and making lame jokes.
Paramount Pictures And while I understand this complaint may come off as just another fanboy whining about somebody changing a cherished property from their youth, it’s not. I love change; change is necessary to keep thing vital and interesting. But so are interesting villains, and if you kill all of them or make them good by the end of the movie, you don’t have anywhere to go from there unless you backtrack, which would be lame.
Supafly isn’t all that super (sorry, folks) Paramount Pictures In addition to wasting the majority of its established villains, Mutant Mayhem also commits the cardinal sin of giving the spotlight to a new villain who is the least interesting character in the whole movie. To my knowledge, Supafly hasn’t appeared in anything before this movie, and it seems whoever came up with him didn’t bother to develop him beyond his too on-the-nose code name.
Supafly’s origin is simple and dull: he’s a mutated fly who vows revenge against humanity for killing his master, Baxter Stockman. He’s one-note because he’s nearly all-powerful; he can take down all the Turtles, Splinter, and his mutant family even before he mutates into a giant kaiju who is capable of destroying NYC. That lethal combination of unoriginality and juiced-up powers means he’s really not all that compelling to watch, and there doesn’t seem to be any reason why we should care about his desire for mutant domination. (Unlike, say, the X-Men’s Magneto, or any classic villain you can think of.) This is partly due to the writing and also due to the actor who plays him. Unlike the other vocal talent in the film, Ice Cube doesn’t embody the character; instead, he just sounds and acts like a pissed-off Ice Cube. There’s no nuance, no attempt at any kind of depth. And yes, I know I’m asking for depth for a character that’s a mutated fly that eats trash and oozes slime, but the bar for animated movies is high right now.
Across the Spider-Verse showed you can make a one-note character surprisingly complex, and Supafly just doesn’t measure up to that film’s Spot or Miguel O’ Hara.
April O’ Neil got Aaron Sorkined (that’s a bad thing) Paramount Pictures When I first saw April O’ Neil’s redesign and heard that The Bear ‘s Ayo Edebiri was voicing the character, I was immediately hooked, intrigued, and excited. This April felt fresh and exciting, unlike the cheesy sexpot version that Megan Fox played in the live-action movies. Yet after watching Mutant Mayhem , I walked away feeling a bit depressed at what had been done to her. April had been thoroughly given the Aaron Sorkin treatment, and not in a good way.
What does that mean? In brief, Aaron Sorkin, the writer of such classic shows as The West Wing and movies like The Social Network , frequently saddles his strong female characters with one or more outrageous, totally illogical flaws to humanize them.
The Newsroom ‘s MacKenzie McHale was the worst of them, a seemingly tough, intelligent reporter who would often make embarrassingly simple mistakes (like sending her breakup text message to her co-workers instead of the intended party) to make her more palatable to the audience.
Paramount Pictures / Paramount Pictures April’s flaw is that she vomits … a lot. She does so whenever she’s in front of a camera, which is a big problem because she wants to be a television reporter. And yes, when this is first introduced in a flashback, it’s kinda funny, and to be fair, it works. It’s a traumatic incident in her past that she’s working to get past; OK, I buy that. But when she finally gets her heroic spotlight by broadcasting the Turtles heroism from Channel 6, her moment of triumph is hijacked by her vomiting on the air … again … in front of the entire NYC television watching audience. This is meant to be a recall of a visual gag seen earlier in the movie, but it fundamentally undermines April’s character. She was supposed to be stronger than that, more together, and over it; instead, the filmmakers just make her the target for a cheap punch line. April, Ayo, and the audience deserved better than that.
The climax is a ripoff from 2000’s X-Men and dozens of Godzilla movies Paramount Pictures Tell me if this logline sounds familiar to you: A team of mutant misfits must stop an evil madman from unleashing a device that will overrun the world with superpowered creatures. Humans will be rendered virtually extinct, and ground zero for the event takes place in New York City. If you guessed that this was the plot to 2023’s Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles: Mutant Mayhem , you’d be right. But you’d also be correct if you guessed that this scheme was the main climax in 2000’s X-Men movie.
And that’s the main problem with Mutant Mayhem ; for all of its innovative visuals, it has a shopworn plot that’s already been used. Combine that with Supafly’s ridiculous kaiju transformation, and subsequent destruction of midtown Manhattan, and you have an “homage” to Godzilla movies that really is just wholesale theft. The Turtles have so much to work with: ninjas, interdimensional aliens, science experiments gone wrong, etc. They really couldn’t come up with something better than a hackneyed plot to turn the human world into a mutant one? With a giant monster destroying a helpless city? Been there, done that.
It fundamentally misses the point of what makes the Turtles so appealing Paramount Pictures And that brings me to most egregious thing about Mutant Mayhem , which is what it does to everyone’s favorite pizza-eating team: it makes them acceptable to human society and safe for anyone to touch. A key plot point in the climax of Mutant Mayhem is when Supafly appears to be victorious, he’s defeated with the help from NYC’s human population, who aid the Turtles in finally eliminating him. Supafly’s takedown is broadcast on Channel 6, and the Turtles are shown as the heroes they always were. The last scene depicts them shedding their trademark ninja costumes, adopting bland oversized hoodies and jeans to make them look like everyone else, and attending high school. The lesson: Conformity is cool! Don’t be different! Being unique is for suckers.
Wrong. Don’t the filmmakers know that the Turtles are at their most appealing when they operate from the shadows, protecting a human world that loathes and fears them? That’s what makes them so interesting to begin with! Comic books commit this sin too; remember when the X-Men were periodically accepted by humans or when Spider-Man revealed his secret identity during Civil War ? The status quo was changed, but not for the better, and those two properties quickly reverted back to what made them work to begin with.
Mutant Mayhem drags the Turtles from the sewers and gives them a happy ending; that’s great for the characters, but terrible for a freshly rebooted franchise. Who wants to see the Turtles struggle with band practice or navigate the vicious high school caste system? Or for them to be fully embraced and loved by everyone? I don’t, and I’m not sure anyone else does either.
Editors' Recommendations 3 Netflix animated movies like Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles: Mutant Mayhem Is Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles: Mutant Mayhem streaming? All the Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles movies and TV shows, ranked 5 movies you need to watch in August 2023 Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles take on Superfly in Mutant Mayhem trailer Action Paramount+ Entertainment The Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles are back in the first teaser trailer for the new animated movie Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles: Mutant Mayhem. The footage depicts the crimefighting turtles as teenagers trying to find their place in New York City.
Four young actors voice the four turtles: The Walking Dead: World Beyond's Nicolas Cantu (Leonardo), Cousins for Life's Micah Abbey (Donatello), The Chi's Shamon Brown Jr. (Michelangelo), and The Mighty Ducks: Game Changers' Brady Noon (Raphael).
Entertainment November has been a great month for movies at Netflix, with the premiere of David Fincher's The Killer, and recent box office hits like Insidious: The Red Door and Spider-Man: Across the Spider-Verse. This week, the new additions include The Impossible, a 2012 survival thriller that has already landed on the list of the 10 most popular movies on Netflix. For younger viewers, Minions is also heating up the charts despite the pending departure of the other films in the franchise at the end of the month.
There's only one holiday weekend left in November, so what's the best way to stay on top of everything new on Netflix? Why, we are, of course. Our list of the best movies on Netflix right now is updated every Friday, even on holiday weekends, so you can easily find something for every movie lover in your life.
Entertainment Summer is long over, and the fall season is in full swing. It's now late 2023, and just about everyone is subscribed to Netflix and Hulu. But would you be surprised if I told you one of the most underrated streaming services around is Tubi? The upstart streamer has tons of new and old TV shows from every decade and every genre imaginable. Want to watch the buzziest series that aired on Max? Tubi has it. Are you feeling nostalgic about that old movie or cartoon you used to watch as a kid in the '80s or '90s? Chances are, Tubi has it.
Tubi has so much content that it can be hard to choose which shows and films are worth your time. Digital Trends is here to help you sort out which ones are worth watching. Even though the streaming service is free, time is valuable, and no one wants to waste it watching subpar content.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
