Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix F1 Live Stream Stranger Things Season 5 Best New Movies Most Popular Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney+ UFC Live Stream Best Movies on Disney+ Home Entertainment Guides 10 biggest action movie hits ever, ranked by adjusted box office By Carson Burton Close Ever wondered how an older movie’s box office would stack up to today’s hits when adjusted for inflation? Well, thanks to Box Office Mojo , fans can see exactly how their favorite movies’ box office numbers translate to the current dollar value.
10. Avengers: Infinity War (2018): $678,572,589 9. The Dark Knight (2008): $697,722,995 8. Thunderball (1965): $700,876,000 7. Black Panther (2018): $715,038,755 6. Jurassic World (2015): $719,633,803 5. The Avengers (2012): $720,376,844 4. Raiders of the Lost Ark (1981): $829,651,658 3. Jurassic Park (1993): $860,163,189 2. Avengers: Endgame (2019): $892,669,593 1. Avatar (2009): $911,790,952 Since some of the most notable action movies came out decades ago, their listed gross numbers can be misleading. Inflation has drastically affected what a single dollar can purchase over the vast decades that Hollywood has operated, so comparing a movie’s adjusted box office can shed light on just how influential a movie was at its time of release.
The biggest domestic action hits of all time, adjusted by box-office gross, are mostly big franchises, from superheroes to dinosaurs. Here are the top 10 action hits of all time when adjusted for inflation based on the 2022 ticket price.
7 biggest flaws of the most popular movie franchises, ranked The biggest horror hits of all time, ranked by adjusted box office gross 10 biggest sci-fi hits of all time, ranked by adjusted box-office gross 10. Avengers: Infinity War (2018): $678,572,589 Marvel Studios There will be a lot of the Marvel Cinematic Universe on this list, starting with 2018’s Avengers: Infinity War.
 The third installment to the Avengers team-up films sees the world’s mightiest heroes take on their biggest threat yet. The movie is essentially a massive war movie spanning lightyears, from desolate planets in the far reaches of space to the dark streets of Edinburgh.
Infinity War serves as a part one conclusion to the Infinity Saga of the MCU, which sees the mad titan Thanos in an all-out war for the six Infinity Stones. After retrieving the first two stones off-screen, Thanos sets his sights on the other four infinity stones that are scattered throughout the universe. To stop the ultra-powerful villain from decimating half of all living life in the universe, the Avengers must team up once again to make one final stand.
Avengers: Infinity War is a massive film and one of the most consequential movies in the entire MCU; the collective cultural experience of seeing Infinity War for the first time is not to be forgotten.
9. The Dark Knight (2008): $697,722,995 Warner Bros. Pictures / Warner Bros. Pictures It’s not exaggerating to say that Christopher Nolan’s Batman trilogy changed Hollywood forever. Following his successful Batman origin story Batman Begins , Nolan delivered one of the greatest superhero movies ever made in 2008’s The Dark Knight.
 Widely remembered for the outstanding performance of Heath Ledger as the Joker , The Dark Knight is as much a crime and gangster movie as it is a superhero movie. The action is epic, and the filmmaking is remarkable.
Now firmly established as Gotham’s vigilante savior, the movie follows Batman (Christian Bale) as he fights a vile new criminal who calls himself the Joker. The Joker throws the entire town into chaos, taking on the entire criminal underworld and questioning how much of a hero Batman is. Now, with the help of allies Lt. Jim Gordon (Gary Oldman) and DA Harvey Dent (Aaron Eckhart), the caped Crusader walks a fine line between heroism, vigilantism, and outright villainy.
8. Thunderball (1965): $700,876,000 United Artists Everyone’s favorite spy makes his only appearance on this list with 1965’s Thunderball.
 Sean Connery’s version of James Bond is often cited as the best , and Thunderball is one of his most fun outings. Amazing set pieces and a wonderful Connery performance make Thunderball a big, outrageous Bond adventure.
The movie sees Agent 007 take on SPECTRE, the terrorist group led by one-eyed evil mastermind Emilio Largo (Adolfo Celi). When SPECTRE hijacks two warheads from a NATO plane and threatens widespread nuclear destruction, James Bond is sent to recover the warheads from the heart of Largo’s lair in the Bahamas. Featuring underwater shark attacks and jet-pack shenanigans, Thunderball is a wacky, action-packed adventure outfitted with all of the classic Bond tropes.
7. Black Panther (2018): $715,038,755 Marvel Studios Black Panther is a movie as financially successful as it is influential. The movie, which was nominated for Best Picture at the 2019 Oscars, firmly proved that superhero movies can be as critically beloved as a weighty drama. Featuring countless powerful images of Afro-futurism, Black Panther merged the world of superheroes with the political upheaval of our times. Chadwick Boseman and director Ryan Coogler turn this MCU film into a beautiful, fun time at the movies.
The film follows Boseman’s character of T’Challa, the heir to the hidden but advanced African nation of Wakanda. The nation hides in the shadows, hiding its vast wealth and technological brilliance. Thanks to its vast resources of Vibranium, Wakanda is the most powerful nation on Earth — even though very few people even know about it. It also holds the mysterious heart-shaped herb, a plant that, when consumed, grants a person the powers of the Black Panther. After a challenger from the country’s past returns to take Wakanda’s throne, T’Challa must step forward to lead his people into a new future.
6. Jurassic World (2015): $719,633,803 Universal Pictures / Universal Pictures In 2015, Jurassic World showed audiences what a fully realized dinosaur theme park might look like, terror and death included. Starring Chris Pratt and Bryce Dallas Howard, Jurassic World brought the wonder of dinosaurs to a new generation. While Jurassic World may not be the most traditional action film, it still includes a great number of tense action sequences. In fact, it is also one of the highest-grossing science fiction movies when adjusted for inflation.
Much like the original Jurassic Park , the 2015 reprise follows the mishaps of a dinosaur theme park on Isla Nublar. Now, though, the park is finally open. Thanks to the park’s constant search for improvement, a group of Jurassic World scientists create a genetically modified hybrid dinosaur named the Indominus Rex, which escapes containment and goes on a killing spree. With hundreds of tourists dead, it’s up to Pratt’s Owen Grady and Howard’s Claire Dearing to restore order.
5. The Avengers (2012): $720,376,844 Marvel Studios The first time Earth’s Mightiest Heroes teamed up on the big screen was, pardon the pun, a marvel.
The Avengers , released in 2012, did something Hollywood had never seen. The sheer scale of a movie like The Avengers completely altered the course of Hollywood, formally kicking off the superhero craze that would consume the next decade-plus of moviemaking.
After Thor’s evil brother, Loki (Tom Hiddleston), steals a mysteriously powerful cube called the Tesseract, Nick Fury (Samuel L. Jackson), director of S.H.I.E.L.D., initiates a superhero recruitment effort to defeat the unprecedented threat to Earth. The team that we all know was then assembled: Iron Man (Robert Downey Jr.), Captain America (Chris Evans), the Hulk (Mark Ruffalo), Thor (Chris Hemsworth), the Black Widow (Scarlett Johansson), and Hawkeye (Jeremy Renner). Together, the superhero team goes to war against Loki and his alien forces, saving the world from complete annihilation.
4. Raiders of the Lost Ark (1981): $829,651,658 Paramount Pictures / Image via LucasFilm Steven Spielberg kicked off one of the most successful action-adventure franchises ever seen with 1981’s Raiders of the Lost Ark.
 Even though the film is now over 40 years old, not one second of it feels dated. Spielberg’s deft hand at action storytelling creates a compelling and ultra-fun adventure through deserts, university classrooms, and jungles. Harrison Ford’s fedora-wearing hero is a Hollywood icon, and Raiders of the Lost Ark is his best on-screen outing as Indiana Jones.
The epic tale follows intrepid archaeologist Indiana Jones as he races a band of evil Nazis to a unique religious relic: the lost ark of the covenant. The ark, which supposedly holds the 10 commandments given to Moses on Mount Sinai, holds an immense power that the Nazis intend to weaponize for world domination. Now, Indiana has to team up with friends and a vengeful ex-girlfriend to stop the Nazis from tapping into the ark’s immense power.
3. Jurassic Park (1993): $860,163,189 Universal Pictures / Universal Pictures Jurassic Park , yet another influential and wildly successful Steven Spielberg movie, is a classic in all senses of the word. The movie is a terrifying yet delightful showcase of Spielberg’s impressive direction and storytelling chops, and it walks an impressive line between childlike wonder and utter terror.
When paleontologists Alan Grant (Sam Neill), Ellie Sattler (Laura Dern), and mathematician Ian Malcolm (Jeff Goldblum) tour an island theme park populated by dinosaurs created from prehistoric DNA, things take a turn for the worst. With the park shut down, the scientists have to fight through treacherous terrain and hungry dinosaurs to survive. While some may think it’s not a good movie, most audiences believe Jurassic Park is among the finest pieces of blockbuster American cinema, and its action chops are more than hard cuts and intense shootouts. Instead, Spielberg creates a survivalist action sci-fi hit that will always be remembered.
2. Avengers: Endgame (2019): $892,669,593 Marvel Studios After over 10 years of storytelling, the MCU’s Infinity Saga concluded with the monumental three-hour epic Avengers: Endgame.
 The film is as much an experience as it is a singular film. In all of Hollywood’s history, there has never been a film as immense as Endgame , a movie that brings together 21 other movies for one epic conclusion. The movie is a cultural icon.
Picking up where Infinity War left off, Avengers: Endgame is set five years after Thanos eradicated half of all living life in the universe with just the snap of his fingers. Now, only a few of our heroes remain, and the entire universe is in ruin. All hope is lost. That is, until Ant-Man (Paul Rudd) returns from the Quantum Realm after being trapped for five years. His return causes Tony Stark (Robert Downey Jr.) to unravel the mystery of time travel, granting the remaining Avengers one last chance to bring back everyone they lost.
1. Avatar (2009): $911,790,952 20th Century Studios The highest-grossing movie of all time is also, unsurprisingly, the highest-grossing action movie ever made. James Cameron’s Avatar , released in 2009, is as large as a singular movie can get. Adorned with mind-blowing visuals and dense themes, Avatar is the biggest movie ever made — and its action is undeniable. From high-flying set pieces to sneaky jungle warfare, Avatar is a war film with the heart of a love story.
Set in the future on a lush planet called Pandora, the movie follows paralyzed former marine Jake Sully (Sam Worthington) as his entire life is turned upside down when he encounters the planet’s native people, the Na’vi. Jake, who inhabits a Na’vi body to allow for free movement on Pandora, learns about and comes to care deeply about the highly evolved species. His human counterparts, though, only desire conquest. As Jake’s bond with the Na’vi, particularly Neytiri (Zoe Saldana), grows, he is drawn into a battle for the survival of Pandora.
Editors' Recommendations The best MCU sequels, ranked 7 biggest horror movie bombs of all time, ranked by adjusted box office losses 10 worst action heroes ever, ranked 10 best Avengers stories ever, ranked 10 best action movie sidekicks ever, ranked Action Comic Book Movies Marvel Sci-Fi Entertainment Moviegoers in recent years have seen theaters dominated by an ever-popular wave of superhero movies. The many films produced by Marvel and DC made for some of the most highly anticipated cinematic events of the 2010s.
While not all of these movies were critical or commercial darlings, there were still plenty of superhero projects that stood above the rest as creative and thrilling adventures that helped make the genre what it is today. Superhero fatigue may be finally setting in, but these 10 films haven't lost their ability to excite and move their many fans.
10. Captain America: The Winter Soldier (2014) Entertainment There's no denying the Marvel Cinematic Universe is one of the most successful and acclaimed media franchises of all time. Beginning with Iron Man in 2008, the MCU has expanded into many more films and TV shows, integrating the Avengers, Spider-Man, and the X-Men into its canon and growing more ambitious with each production.
Though the franchise has been an overall triumph, it has had more than enough creative misfires and bad business decisions. With the MCU now in its 15th year, audiences have seen how these 10 mistakes have left a stain on its otherwise shining reputation.
Sidelining Hawkeye Entertainment There's no rest for Marvel's famous web-slinger. Spider-Man is, perhaps, the most popular superhero across the entire pantheon of Marvel heroes. For decades, the spunky young hero has been pummeling criminals with both his fists and comical wit. He's moved from the pages of comic books to headline several TV series and blockbusting cinematic adventures. Spider-Man's presence in the pop culture fandom simply can't be understated. And with recent storyline innovations and animated adaptations like Across the Spider-Verse, Peter Parker is just one of countless wall-crawlers who dons the title. Each Spider-Man, Spider-Woman, or uh, Spider-Rex (that's right, there's a T-Rex with spider powers) has their own story and individual capabilities.
Whether we're viewing the world from the Peter Parker lens or any of his countless inter-dimensional compadres, there's a wealth of Spider-Man stories at our fingertips across multiple mediums. In our multimedia age, Spider-Man is everywhere and some of the best stories featuring the iconic hero aren't always within the pages of comic books. So, if you're looking for a Spider-Man story oozing with thrills, character-centric story arcs, and enthralling conflicts, look no further than our handy list featuring Spider-Man at his best.
10. The Amazing Spider-Man 31-33: The Master Planner Saga Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
