Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix F1 Live Stream Stranger Things Season 5 Best New Movies Most Popular Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney+ UFC Live Stream Best Movies on Disney+ Home Entertainment Guides Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? 3 action movies on Paramount+ you need to watch in November By Blair Marnell Close It has to be somewhat discouraging for Paramount+ subscribers to see so many of the best action movies, and the best movies in general, go straight to the higher tiers of Paramount+ with Showtime. Here at Digital Trends, we’re firm believers in the idea that these movies should be available to every subscriber regardless of tiers. So our picks for the three best action movies on Paramount+ are available on all tiers.
Mission: Impossible – Dead Reckoning Part One (2023) Gladiator (2000) Black Hawk Down (2001) This month’s picks include one of the biggest action movies from last summer, a Best Picture winner at the Oscars, and a retelling of a real-life story. These are the three action movies on Paramount+ that you need to watch in November.
Mission: Impossible – Dead Reckoning Part One (2023) Paramount Pictures / Paramount Pictures If the reports are true that President Joe Biden was moved to take executive action on A.I.
after watching Mission: Impossible – Dead Reckoning Part One , then this may prove to be one of the more influential movies ever made. Within the film, Ethan Hunt (Tom Cruise) makes it his personal mission to destroy The Entity, an AI that has already gained sentience and set its own agenda for the world.
3 sci-fi movies on Paramount+ you need to watch in November 3 sci-fi movies on Peacock you need to watch in November 3 sci-fi movies on Hulu you need to watch in November The Entity’s reach extends to the physical world, thanks to Ethan’s old rival, Gabriel (Esai Morales), who is a true believer in its plans for the future. When a beautiful thief named Grace (Hayley Atwell) gets in the middle of this conflict, The Entity forces Ethan to choose between saving her, or his long-term love interest, Ilsa Faust (Rebecca Ferguson).
Watch Mission: Impossible – Dead Reckoning Part One on Paramount+.
Gladiator (2000) Universal Pictures “Are you not entertained?!” There aren’t many action movies that have walked away with the Best Picture award at the Oscars. But director Ridley Scott’s Gladiator pulled off that feat, and Russell Crowe also won Best Actor for his portrayal of Maximus Decimus Meridius. Maximus is a loyal general of the Roman army who has the favor of the Emperor, Marcus Aurelius (Richard Harris). Marcus even wants to make Maximus his heir so Rome can become a republic again.
Marcus’ son, Commodus (Joaquin Phoenix), murders his father rather than let Maximus rule in place of himself. Commodus also orders the death of Maximus and his family. While Maximus survives, his loved ones do not. Maximus endures slavery and life as a gladiator before his exploits in the arena give him the chance to get his revenge on the man who took everything from him.
Watch Gladiator on Paramount+.
Black Hawk Down (2001) Sony Pictures Releasing Scott also directed Black Hawk Down , a harrowing film that is based on a real-life incident that occurred in 1999. A civil war in Somalia escalates to the point where U.S. special forces and soldiers are sent into the country on a mission. When the mission goes horribly wrong, a Delta Force Black Hawk helicopter is shot down by enemy forces, with only a handful of survivors.
SSG Matt Eversmann ( Oppenheimer ‘s Josh Hartnett) and his Rangers attempt to reach the crash site and rescue their men, only for a second helicopter to go down under enemy fire. And regardless of the superior firepower of the U.S. military, the overwhelming forces set against them may mean that no one on their side will make it out alive.
Watch Black Hawk Down on Paramount+.
Editors' Recommendations 5 bad 2000s action movies that you still need to watch right now 3 action movies on Netflix you need to watch in November 5 sci-fi movies on Netflix you need to watch in November 3 action movies on Prime Video you need to watch in November 3 action movies on Hulu you need to watch in November Action Paramount+ Entertainment As the calendar turns to November, many streaming services will gear their programming to reflect the holidays. However, there will still be other genres readily available. Tubi, for example, still has a great selection of sci-fi films. As a FAST service, Tubi customers can access the service for free and watch programs with ads.
Sci-fi fans need to watch these three films in November: a reboot of a storied franchise from the 1960s and 1970s, an iconic horror film from John Carpenter, and a sequel to Guillermo del Toro's monster movie.
Rise of the Planet of the Apes (2011) Entertainment Sci-fi movies are available in abundance. There are some great classic sci-fi movies you can watch on streaming services like Prime Video. But there are also compelling new ones that might be worth checking out.
If you’re looking for something relatively new and off the beaten path, three sci-fi movies on Prime Video you need to watch in November include one that debuted just this year, a popcorn thriller disaster sci-fi flick, and a totally under-the-radar movie from an independent filmmaker.
I’ll Be Watching (2023) I'LL BE WATCHING | Official HD Trailer (2023) | THRILLER | Film Threat Trailers Entertainment Are you looking for something new to watch on Hulu? Although the streamer is better known for its movie library, Hulu also has a great lineup of TV series and classic shows that just didn't get the accolades they deserved the first time.
This month, we're throwing the spotlight on one of the all-time great TV romantic comedy/drama/mystery series that has only recently gotten a streaming debut. We're also taking a look at the resurrection of a horror franchise, and a quirky Hulu original series by way of Canada. These are the three underrated shows on Hulu that you need to watch in November.
Moonlighting (1985-1989) Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
