Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix F1 Live Stream Stranger Things Season 5 Best New Movies Most Popular Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney+ UFC Live Stream Best Movies on Disney+ Home Entertainment Guides Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? 3 Dolph Lundgren movies you should watch in September By Blair Marnell Close This week, Dolph Lundgren is back in theaters with The Expendables 4 , and that makes this the perfect opportunity to look back at three Dolph Lundgren movies that you should watch in September. Lundgren has been acting in leading roles since 1985, but he had a long stretch of direct-to-video films that kept him off the big screen from 1995 to 2010 when he returned to prominence with the first installment of The Expendables.
Rocky IV (1985) Creed II (2018) Showdown in Little Tokyo (1991) Lundgren has the distinction of being the first actor to portray Marvel’s Punisher in a solo film and He-Man in Masters of the Universe.
 But you won’t find either of those movies on this list because they’re awful. Instead, we decided to focus on the films that showed what Lundgren could really do as the ultimate villain, a broken father, and a heroic action star at the height of his powers. These are the three Dolph Lundgren movies that you should watch.
Rocky IV (1985) MGM Rocky IV is the film that established Dolph Lundgren as a star. He played Ivan Drago, a fearsome boxer from the Soviet Union who arrives in the United States in the waning years of the Cold War. As an opening gambit, Drago brutally beats Apollo Creed (Carl Weathers) to death during an exhibition boxing match and he doesn’t show even a shred of remorse.
3 action movies on Hulu you need to watch in November 3 underrated sci-fi movies on Amazon Freevee you should watch in November 3 underrated movies on Paramount+ you need to watch in November Naturally, this angers Apollo’s best friend, Rocky Balboa (Sylvester Stallone), who gives up his world championship in order to have an unsanctioned bout with Drago in Moscow in front of the Soviet leadership and ordinary Russians. It’s such an immense challenge that Rocky has to go through two training montages until he’s ready for his ultimate battle. There are a lot of over-the-top moments in Rocky IV , but Ivan Drago was by far the most physically imposing foe that Rocky ever faced in the ring. After this movie, Lundgren found a lot of work playing villains.
Watch Rocky IV on Netflix until September 30.
Creed II (2018) MGM After 30 years, Rocky IV got a direct sequel in Creed II.
 This time, Lundgren actually got a chance to play Ivan Drago as a human being who had suffered greatly from the disgrace he suffered when he lost to Rocky three decades earlier. That’s why Ivan saw his son, Viktor Drago (Florian Munteanu), as his chance for redemption by unleashing him on Rocky’s protégée, Adonis “Donnie” Creed (Michael B. Jordan).
As you might expect, the first match between Viktor and Donnie does not go well for the son of Apollo Creed. But while Rocky and Donnie reconcile and train for the rematch, there are some really interesting scenes with the Dragos as Ivan openly enjoys his return to the upper echelons of Russian high society while Viktor is visibly angry that his father would embrace the people who abandoned them, including his ex-wife. This was some of the strongest work of Lundgren’s career, and it went a long way towards making Ivan Drago into a three-dimensional character.
Rent or buy Creed II on Google Play , Prime Video , YouTube , and Apple TV+.
Showdown in Little Tokyo (1991) Warner Bros. Pictures Lundgren seems to have been featured as a villain far more often than he got to play a hero. Fortunately, Lundgren got to be one of the leading heroes in one of his best starring vehicles, Showdown in Little Tokyo , a low-budget action flick that he co-headlined with the late Brandon Lee. In this film, Sergeant Chris Kenner (Lundgren) and Detective Johnny Murata (Lee) are initially at odds when they partner up in Los Angeles’ Little Tokyo district. But they quickly find common ground when they go up against a Yakuza crime lord, Funekei Yoshida (as played by Mortal Kombat ‘s Cary-Hiroyuki Tagawa).
A pre- Wayne’s World Tia Carrere co-stars as Minako Okeya, a young singer who needs to be saved by Kenner and Murata on more than one occasion. This is strictly B-movie territory, but it’s really good for a B-movie and light years ahead of Lundgran’s direct-to-video years. This is the best example of what Lundgren could have done in more heroic roles, and it also gives us an appreciation for what Lee could have accomplished as well.
Rent or buy Showdown in Little Tokyo on Google Play , Prime Video , YouTube , and Apple TV+.
Editors' Recommendations 3 movies and TV shows like the hit Max series Julia you should watch right now 3 underrated 1980s sci-fi TV shows you should watch in November 3 underrated action movies on Amazon Freevee you should watch in November One of 2023’s best-reviewed movies is now on Netflix. Here’s why you should watch it 5 shows like Netflix’s Elite you should watch Action Entertainment It's a classic Hollywood story at this point: professional wrestling superstar rises to fame and prominence before dabbling in a potential acting career that eventually explodes making him or her a household name beyond wrestling fandom. No, we're not talking about Dwayne "The Rock" Johnson or even his contemporary Dave Bautista. The man who eventually became the face of the modern WWE, John Cena, has made a splash in Hollywood and he doesn't seem to be quitting any time soon with several projects currently in the pipeline.
Cena may not be a true thespian, but his charisma is unmistakable. Aside from his physique and athletic nature making him an ideal candidate for film franchises like The Fast and Furious, Cena actually offers more depth than the muscle-bound bravado you might expect from him. While he takes the spotlight in major films and TV series like The Suicide Squad, Fast X, and Peacemaker, some of Cena's best work has flown under the radar.
Ferdinand (2017) Entertainment While Amazon Freevee does have an impressive lineup of action movies and dramas, its horror lineup is largely underwhelming. Who knew that Gingerdead Man vs. Evil Bong was a real movie? Or that Evil Bong had at least two movies of her own, both of which are on Freevee if you dare to watch them.
Those aren't the kind of titles that we'll ever recommend here at DT. Instead, we've chosen one of the most influential horror films of all time, Daniel Radcliffe's escape from the shadow of Harry Potter, and the beginning of a modern werewolf trilogy. These are the three horror movies on Freevee that you should watch in October.
The Texas Chain Saw Massacre (1974) Entertainment The best sci-fi movies often push the boundaries of what's possible to depict on the big screen by taking on complex fictional concepts that are often rooted in reality. Recent films in the category embrace the intersection between science, philosophy, and humanity, and use mind-blowing visuals and cutting-edge cinematography to bolster filmmakers' ambitious efforts.
From the visually stunning and otherworldly story told in Dune to the mind-bending mix of existentialism and the multiverse in Everything Everywhere All at Once, the greatest science fiction movies from the past five years represent the best that the genre has to offer. With so much to explore in the genre, these are the few standouts that should be considered essential viewing for fans.
Ad Astra (2019) Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
