Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix F1 Live Stream Stranger Things Season 5 Best New Movies Most Popular Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney+ UFC Live Stream Best Movies on Disney+ Home Entertainment Guides Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? 5 Tom Cruise movies you need to watch in August By David Caballero Close It’s not an overstatement to say Tom Cruise is the last real movie star. The actor is back on the big screen with the larger-than-life action flick Mission: Impossible – Dead Reckoning , the seventh entry in the long-running and acclaimed Mission: Impossible series.
Cruise is among the last actors capable of mobilizing global audiences on name alone, with many still willing to pay for a movie ticket just to see him doing his thing.
Cocktail (1988) Mission: Impossible (1996) Tropic Thunder (2008) Knight and Day (2010) American Made (2017) In a career spanning over forty years, Cruise has starred in multiple hits and certified classics, from Oscar-winning darlings like Rain Man to iconic action vehicles like Top Gun.
 Those looking to start the month with more Cruise should undoubtedly check out these stellar films starring cinema’s most famous daredevil, which will surely make for a thrilling and unforgettable August.
Cocktail (1988) Image via Walt Disney Studios Motion Pictures Two years after Cruise’s star-making role in Top Gun , he returned to the big screen with Roger Donaldson’s romantic dramedy Cocktail.
 The plot follows cocky student Brian Flanagan, who works as a bartender to pay his way through college. After a falling out with his former mentor, Flanagan moves to Jamaica to earn enough money to open his own bar.
3 action movies on Netflix you need to watch in November This underrated 2023 horror movie on Netflix deserves more love. Here’s why you should watch it 3 underrated movies on Peacock you need to watch in November Cocktail is not a great movie – some might say it’s outright bad. However, Cruise is at his most likable, doing fancy bartending tricks against a paradisiac Jamaican background. Released at the peak of his ’80s popularity, Cocktail showcases all the qualities that turned Cruise into a star; he is confident and roguishly charming, single-handedly keeping the paper-thin plot afloat through sheer force of will.
Cocktail is streaming on Hulu.
Mission: Impossible (1996) Image via Paramount Pictures Brian De Palma and Cruise brought the long-dormant Mission: Impossible series back to life with the now-iconic 1996 film of the same name. The plot centers on IMF agent Ethan Hunt, who must uncover a dangerous plot while attempting to find who framed him for the murder of his fellow agents.
Some might say Mission: Impossible is the best in the series , and they might have a point. A stylish and tense action thriller that benefits from De Palma’s trademark approach, Mission: Impossible is the rare action movie that doesn’t sacrifice narrative poignancy for cheap bombast. The film also has some of the most iconic sequences in Cruise’s career and action cinema as a whole in service of an anxious and non-stopping plot that remains unmatched today. More importantly, it marks the beginning of what would eventually become Cruise’s longest-running franchise and arguably his greatest contribution to American cinema.
Mission: Impossible is streaming on Paramount+.
Tropic Thunder (2008) Image via Paramount Pictures Ben Stiller’s deranged war comedy Tropic Thunder follows a group of spoiled actors shooting a war picture. Unbeknownst to them, they have been dropped into an actual warzone in a misguided attempt to give the film a more realistic tone. Stiller stars opposite Jack Black and Robert Downey Jr., with Cruise playing a short but memorable role as Les Grossman, the profane and mercurial producer of the film.
Tropic Thunder is wild, politically incorrect, and absolutely unhinged. Buried under a mountain of make-up, Cruise delivers one of his most unexpected performances as the vulgar and grateful Grossman. It’s the kind of performance no one expected from Cruise, usually known for his hunky, leading-man roles. Yet Grossman is … well, gross. a morally and physically repugnant, a thinly-veiled take on Scott Rudin and Harvey Weinstein.
Tropic Thunder still holds up to this day, largely thanks to its bold and uncompromising approach perfectly showcased by Cruise’s performance.
Tropic Thunder can be rented or purchased at digital vendors like Apple TV.
Knight and Day (2010) 20th Century Studios Cruise and Cameron Diaz teamed up for the second time for James Mangold’s 2010 action rom-com Knight and Day.
 The film follows June, a woman who inadvertently becomes involved with eccentric secret agent Roy Miller’s ultra-dangerous mission after a fateful encounter at an airport.
Knight and Day is fun and breezy, a summer romance with incredible action to boot. The film lives and dies with Diaz and Cruise, and the A-list couple more than delivers. The duo is electrifying together, two shining movie stars at the top of their game doing what they do best. What Cruise and Diaz do in Knight and Day might seem easy, but it’s not; it only seems that way because of how effortless and confident they are together, seamlessly blending romance, action, and screwball into a neat and underappreciated package.
Knight and Day is streaming for free on Freevee.
American Made (2017) Image via Universal Pictures Doug Liman’s 2017 action comedy American Made stars Cruise as Adler Berriman “Barry” Seal. Inspired by Seal’s real life, the film chronicles his work as a CIA pilot and his eventual turn into a life of crime by becoming a drug smuggler for the Medellin cartel in the 1980s.
American Made features one of Cruise’s best performances since his ’90s heyday. Calm, collected, and devastatingly cool, Cruise is in his element as the resourceful Seal, delivering an endlessly watchable and compelling portrayal of a controversial but fascinating real-life figure.
American Made cares more about entertaining than sticking to real-life facts, but with such a performance from Cruise, it’s hard to care about anything other than what’s on screen.
American Made can be rented or purchased at digital vendors like Apple TV.
Editors' Recommendations 5 bad 2000s action movies that you still need to watch right now 5 sci-fi movies on Netflix you need to watch in November 5 bad ‘90s action movies that you still need to watch 3 action movies on Paramount+ you need to watch in November 3 underrated movies on Prime Video you need to watch in November Action Entertainment The Afghanistan War drama The Kill Team arrived in theaters with little fanfare in 2019. Only a handful of people actually saw it during its initial run. Now, The Kill Team has appeared among the most popular movies on Netflix, which may finally give it the wider audience that it deserves.
The Kill Team was directed and written by Dan Krauss, who based it on his 2013 documentary of the same name. The story loosely adapts the Maywand District murders, a series of disturbing incidents in which U.S. soldiers murdered innocent Afghan civilians seemingly for sport. Nat Wolff stars in the film as Andrew Briggman, with Alexander Skarsgård as Sergeant Deeks, Adam Long as Rayburn, Jonathan Whitesell as Coombs, Brian "Sene" Marc as Marquez, Rob Morrow as William Briggman, Osy Ikhile as Weppler, Anna Francolini as Laura Briggman, Oliver Ritchie as Cappy, Tunji Kasim as Sergeant Wallace, and Taz Skylar as Sergeant Dawes.
Entertainment The best sci-fi movies often push the boundaries of what's possible to depict on the big screen by taking on complex fictional concepts that are often rooted in reality. Recent films in the category embrace the intersection between science, philosophy, and humanity, and use mind-blowing visuals and cutting-edge cinematography to bolster filmmakers' ambitious efforts.
From the visually stunning and otherworldly story told in Dune to the mind-bending mix of existentialism and the multiverse in Everything Everywhere All at Once, the greatest science fiction movies from the past five years represent the best that the genre has to offer. With so much to explore in the genre, these are the few standouts that should be considered essential viewing for fans.
Ad Astra (2019) Entertainment It's officially spooky season, meaning it's finally time to binge as many horror movies as we can get our hands on.
One of the best parts of the Halloween season is celebrating with scary movies whether they feature goofy ghouls or bloody slashers. Unfortunately, this October doesn't have many big-time horror movies coming to theaters, though. The largest horror release would go to Five Nights at Freddy's on October 27, but the rest of the theater slate leaves much to be desired for horror fans. Thankfully, though, various streaming services are loading up their platforms with spooky hits to satiate our desires.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
