Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Netflix Original Movies Best Comedies on Netflix Best Netflix Original Series Best Anime on Netflix Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Fantasy Movies on Netflix Home Entertainment Guides 3 action movies on Netflix you need to watch in October By Dan Girolamo Close Netflix continues to bolster its action content with the passing of each month as new films arrive to entertain the streamer’s at-home audience. From historical epics like Gladiator and Saving Private Ryan to action thrillers like The Fast and the Furious and Luther: The Fallen Sun , Netflix offers a variety of films to satisfy all action lovers.
Mission: Impossible – Ghost Protocol (2011) The Woman King (2022) Batman Begins (2005) We handpicked three action films that should be saved to your Netflix queue and watched in October. These action films include the fourth entry in the Mission: Impossible franchise, an epic saga starring Viola Davis, and the first superhero film in a trilogy that changed the genre.
Mission: Impossible – Ghost Protocol (2011) Paramount Pictures Mission: Impossible – Ghost Protocol changed the direction of the Mission: Impossible franchise. Before Ghost Protocol , the Mission: Impossible franchise focused on espionage and spy stories. The formula flipped in the fourth film, as stunts and action sequences became the points of emphasis. When Ethan Hunt (Tom Cruise) and the IMF agency are blamed for a bombing at the Kremlin, the U.S. president activatesthe “Ghost Protocol,” which disavows the IMF.
3 dramas on Prime Video you need to watch in November 6 best TV shows you need to watch in December 3 action movies on Netflix you need to watch in November Ethan and his team are forced to go rogue to stop the next attack and clear the agency’s name. The lasting memory from Ghost Protocol is the sequence when Cruise scales the Burj Khalifa in Dubai, which made our list of death-defying stunts in movies.
Stream Mission: Impossible – Ghost Protocol on Netflix.
The Woman King (2022) Ilze Kitshoff / Sony Pictures Releasing An elite group of female warriors fight to protect their kingdom against a new enemy in Gina Prince-Bythewood’s The Woman King.
 In 1823, the West African kingdom of Dahomey is protected by the Agojie, an all-female army of highly skilled fighters. The Agojie are led by their fierce leader, General Nanisca (Viola Davis), who trains the next generation of warriors. One of those newcomers is Nawi (Thuso Mbedu), an inexperienced, but persistent young girl who quickly gains the respect of her peers.
Trouble is on the horizon when Portuguese slave traders arrive off the coast and team with the Agojie’s rivals, the Oyo, leading to a violent confrontation and brutal fight to the death scenario.
The Woman King is a satisfying historical epic and a throwback to a film that Hollywood doesn’t make much anymore.
Stream The Woman King on Netflix.
Batman Begins (2005) Warner Bros. Pictures All great trilogies have a starting point, and Christopher Nolan’s Dark Knight trilogy kicked off in 2005 with Batman Begins.
 The origin story of Bruce Wayne starts with the death of his parents, after which butler Alfred Pennyworth (Michael Caine) becomes the orphan’s guardian. Over a decade later, Bruce (Christian Bale) leaves Gotham after failing to bring his parents’ killer to justice.
While traveling the world, Bruce is trained by Henri Ducard (Liam Neeson) and the League of Shadows. Bruce leaves the League of Shadows when he rejects their proposal to destroy Gotham, feeling he can save the crime-ridden city through other means of justice. For Bruce, his solution is to fight as Batman, the masked vigilante intent on saving Gotham from the criminal underworld.
Stream Batman Begins on Netflix.
Editors' Recommendations 5 bad 2000s action movies that you still need to watch right now 3 TV shows on Tubi you should watch in November 3 sci-fi movies on Paramount+ you need to watch in November 3 sci-fi movies on Peacock you need to watch in November 5 sci-fi movies on Netflix you need to watch in November Action Comic Book Movies DC Comics Netflix Streaming Services Entertainment Last month on Hulu was all about horror. But in November, the new titles on Hulu include three of the best sci-fi movies of the last decade or so. For fans of the genre, this is a special treat that shouldn't be missed.
This month, our picks include Tom Cruise in a film unlike any of his previous blockbusters, as well as a cult classic robots-versus-aliens movie, and the final installment of a cult-classic film trilogy. These are the three sci-fi movies on Hulu that you need to watch in November.
Edge of Tomorrow (2014) Entertainment Action movies can get you amped up for a big day to come, or even out of a bad mood. They often feature high-speed chases, intense fight scenes, and maybe even a bit of sci-fi. They can be set just about anywhere and usually include great fight choreography and/or visual effects, sometimes even thought-provoking storylines when you dig deeper beneath the surface.
The best action movies on Prime Video include a diverse mix of titles, both old and new. When it comes to three action movies on Prime Video you need to watch in November, they all include A-list casts and one even spawned a franchise that is going strong after two decades.
V For Vendetta (2006) V For Vendetta (2005) Official Trailer #1 - Sc-Fi Thriller HD Entertainment Netflix is still king. Despite the increased competition from rival companies, Netflix remains the gold standard in streaming, with nearly 250 million subscribers. The most popular shows on Netflix include Stranger Things, Wednesday, and Squid Game. These shows dominate pop culture when a new season arrives on Netflix. However, plenty of good shows sneak under the radar and have developed passionate fanbases.
If you're looking for a new show in November, consider watching these three underrated gems on Netflix. Our selections include a cyberpunk crime thriller, a charming Christmas adventure, and a Western drama.
Altered Carbon (2018-2020) Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
