Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix F1 Live Stream Stranger Things Season 5 Best New Movies Most Popular Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney+ UFC Live Stream Best Movies on Disney+ Home Entertainment Guides Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Where to watch all The Expendables movies By Dan Girolamo Close Marvel has the Avengers, DC has the Justice League, and the action genre has the Expendables. The Expendables are an elite group of mercenaries brought together to complete the world’s toughest missions. Standing in for the role of Nick Fury in The Expendables franchise is Barney Ross, played by Sylvester Stallone, who co-wrote the first three films and directed The Expendables.
 Stallone brought together some of the biggest action heroes in Hollywood’s history to star in the franchise, including Arnold Schwarzenegger, Jason Statham, Bruce Willis, Dolph Lundgren, and Jet Li.
Where to watch all The Expendables movies When is it streaming for subscribers? How much does it cost? Is it worth watching? The fourth entry in the franchise, Expend4bles , will be released in theaters this weekend. Before Expend4bles, revisit the first three action-packed entries in The Expendables franchise. You’ll find information on where to watch all The Expendables movies below.
Where to watch all The Expendables movies Lionsgate You can watch all three Expendables movies on multiple streaming services , including Netflix, Starz, Tubi, Peacock, FuboTV , and AMC+.
3 movies and TV shows like the hit Max series Julia you should watch right now The best movies on Amazon Prime Video (November 2023) Where to watch A Charlie Brown Thanksgiving for free When is it streaming for subscribers? Lionsgate The Expendables movies are now streaming for subscribers on the services listed above. However, The Expendables and The Expendables 2 are leaving Netflix on October 5.
How much does it cost? Netflix’s standard plan with ads costs $7/month, with Standard at $15.50/month and Premium at $20/month. Standard and Premium are ad-free and include unlimited movies, TV shows, and mobile games. Starz normally costs $9/month, but for a limited time, new customers will pay only $3/month for the first three months.
Tubi is a FAST service, meaning customers can enjoy thousands of hours of movies and TV shows for free. However, ads will run during each program, similar to commercials on cable TV. To access Peacock , customers can subscribe to Premium or Premium Plus. Premium is the ad tier, which costs $6/month. Premium Plus, which has no ads, costs $12/month.
FuboTV is a streaming platform that features 100-plus channels of sports and TV.
FuboTV ’s plans start at $75/month. Finally, a subscription to AMC+ costs $7/month and includes movies and TV shows from AMC, The Walking Dead Universe, Shudder, BBC America, IFC, and Sundance.
Is it worth watching? Lionsgate To its credit, The Expendables franchise knows what it is and gives its fans what they want. These films channel the spirit of action films from the 1980s and 1990s, with loud explosions, big weapons, witty dialogue, and iconic actors from the action genre.
On Rotten Tomatoes , The Expendables 2 is rated the highest of the three on the Tomatometer with 67%. Meanwhile, The Expendables sits at 41% and The Expendables 3 , considered the worst of the three, comes in at 31%. Despite the negative reviews, The Expendables franchise has a loyal following, as the three films have a combined box office gross of $ 804 million.
The Expend4bles is in theaters on September 22.
Editors' Recommendations How to watch 2023 AEW Full Gear 5 bad 2000s action movies that you still need to watch right now The 50 best movies on Netflix right now (November 2023) 3 TV shows on Tubi you should watch in November The best feel-good movies on Netflix right now Action Entertainment Science fiction, as a genre, can demand a lot from the actors involved. They're tasked with reciting the kind of scientific mumbo jumbo that all sci-fi scripts contain and are forced to find ways to make it compelling.
Great sci-fi actors know how to leverage their on-screen personas to create compelling characters, even if those characters live in a world that is not exactly like our own. These seven actors proved that sci-fi is a genre that can be conquered by the right presence.
Sigourney Weaver Entertainment Who's in the mood for an action film? Netflix has an impressive slate of action films that only improves with the addition of new films every month. New arrivals include Liam Neeson's Cold Pursuit, David Fincher's The Killer, and Adam Wingard's Godzilla vs. Kong.
This November, we curated a list of three action movies you need to watch on Netflix. Our action picks include one of the best war movies ever made, an underrated Clint Eastwood thriller, and Michael Bay at his finest.
Saving Private Ryan (1998) Entertainment You're going to see a lot of Christmas movies on Hulu through the end of the year. 'Tis the season for the Huludays, after all. While we'll go over your Christmas options at a later date, this month's selections of the best movies on Hulu feature a new original film, Quiz Lady, as well as A Haunting in Venice, which recently finished its theatrical run. The other prominent new additions are Jumanji: Welcome to the Jungle and the comedy biopic Driven.
Need help keeping up with everything new on Hulu? Every month, we go over the greatest films that Hulu has to offer while keeping track of what's coming and going. That's why our update of the best movies on Hulu is always current. We're here to help you plan your next movie night.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
