Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix F1 Live Stream Stranger Things Season 5 Best New Movies Most Popular Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney+ UFC Live Stream Best Movies on Disney+ Home Entertainment Guides 10 best Martin Scorsese movies, ranked By Alex Welch Close Paramount Pictures When looking at the career of an influential filmmaker like Martin Scorsese , it’s hard not to be overwhelmed by the sheer enormity of it. Over the course of his nearly six-decade career, Scorsese has made north of 20 scripted feature films and numerous documentaries — nearly all of which are considered classics now by cinephiles. In the weeks leading up to the release of his latest film, Killers of the Flower Moon , the quality of Scorsese’s filmography has felt particularly apparent. No other filmmaker of the past 50 years has made as many indelible classics — masterpieces that strike the perfect balance between personal and universal that has always been at the heart of great cinema.
10. The Departed (2006) 9. Casino (1995) 8. Killers of the Flower Moon (2023) 7. The Age of Innocence (1993) 6. The King of Comedy (1982) 5. The Irishman (2019) 4. Raging Bull (1980) 3. The Wolf of Wall Street (2013) 2. Goodfellas (1990) 1. Taxi Driver (1976) To try and rank any of his films feels like a foolish endeavor, if only because many of them seem to grow in both depth and complexity based on the more time one spends with them. Nonetheless, in honor of Scorsese’s latest directorial effort, we’ve decided to rank his 10 best films in as definitive a fashion as we can.
10. The Departed (2006) Warner Bros. Pictures The Departed will forever be known as the film that finally won Martin Scorsese his Oscar, which is a bit of an odd reputation for a movie that is so over-the-top, acidic, violent, and monstrously funny. A loose remake of the 2002 Hong Kong thriller Infernal Affairs , The Departed is Scorsese at his loosest, most fun, and — hilariously enough — lighthearted.
All of David Fincher’s movies, ranked from worst to best Sofia Coppola’s movies, ranked worst to best 10 best horror movies of the 1970s, ranked One never gets the sense at any point throughout the film that the director is taking any of it too seriously, which just makes the sheer effectiveness of The Departed (it’s one of Scorsese’s most purely entertaining movies) and its double-agent plot all the more impressive.
9. Casino (1995) Universal Pictures If anyone else had made Casino , it’d likely be considered their best film. For Martin Scorsese, though, it ranks undeniably high as one of his many minor masterpieces. Coming five years after 1990’s Goodfellas , the film is bigger, longer, and more gobsmackingly gorgeous than its predecessor, but not quite as precise or hard-hitting. When it was released, everyone seemed to agree that it was an attractive, but ultimately lesser spiritual sequel to Goodfellas , and that general consensus has continued to mar its reputation.
Thirty years later, however, Casino stands out not because of what it has in common with Goodfellas , but because of what separates it from that film — namely, its glitzy Vegas setting, uncharacteristically romantic first half, and a performance from Sharon Stone that is among the very best that Scorsese has ever captured onscreen.
8. Killers of the Flower Moon (2023) Paramount Pictures/Apple Original Films Martin Scorsese’s newest film is also one of his most ambitious, grand, and haunting pieces of work to date. Based on David Grann’s 2017 novel of the same name, Killers of the Flower Moon is an expensive, 206-minute epic about a series of vicious murders that were meticulously organized and carried out against the oil-rich people of the Osage Nation in 1920s Oklahoma.
With its somber tone, unflinching depiction of violence, steady gaze, and mournful pace, the film lays bare the painful truths of not only America’s past and present sins, but also Scorsese’s own complicated relationship with the country that he calls home. It may be too soon to call it a masterpiece, but time will likely be just as kind to Killers of the Flower Moon as it’s been to all of Scorsese’s films.
7. The Age of Innocence (1993) Columbia Pictures The most romantic film Martin Scorsese has ever made is also one of his most painful, delicate, and beautiful. A left-turn follow-up to Goodfellas , 1993’s The Age of Innocence is an Edith Wharton adaptation that sees Scorsese travel back in time to a version of New York City he had rarely explored before. As much a tragedy of manners as it is, like Goodfellas , a portrait of a very specific American subculture, The Age of Innocence was long considered one of Scorsese’s most underrated films. Its recent critical renaissance has made it hard to categorize it as such anymore, but the praise it has received is well-deserved.
Boasting two all-time great performances from Michelle Pfeiffer and Daniel Day-Lewis, The Age of Innocence is a stunningly cinematic love story — one so full of yearning and heartache that it feels at certain moments like it might just burst. It never does, of course, which is where its brilliance truly lies.
6. The King of Comedy (1982) 20th Century Fox A satirical black comedy that only seems to grow wiser and more prophetic with each passing year, The King of Comedy was a box office flop when it was released — a fact that Martin Scorsese himself seemingly still hasn’t gotten over. He shouldn’t, either, given how undeniably impressive its craft is and as exacting its criticisms of America’s ever-growing celebrity culture are.
Heavily ripped off by 2019’s Joker , The King of Comedy is an odd cocktail of different, seemingly contradictory tones and performances, and yet it goes down far smoother than it arguably should. Only a filmmaker as talented as Scorsese could have made a film that is so darkly perceptive so simultaneously watchable, and only someone as openly obsessive as him could have made its mix of comedy, violence, and contempt work so well.
5. The Irishman (2019) Netflix The Irishman is the culmination of Martin Scorsese’s lifelong obsession with organized crime and the mob. Starring one of the greatest trios that’s ever been assembled on-screen in Robert De Niro, Al Pacino, and Joe Pesci, the film follows De Niro’s Frank as he slowly, but surely erodes the only worthwhile aspects of his life in order to keep his place within the mob. It’s just as flashy and violent as any of Scorsese’s other crime movies, but what makes The Irishman resonate so deeply is its final third, which goes further than Mean Streets , Casino , and Goodfellas by showing where a life without loyalty, honor, or love ultimately leads.
There’s nothing as merciless as time, and by making his characters in The Irishman fully reckon with that fact, Scorsese manages to make some of his most profound observations to date about the ways in which selfishness and shortsightedness can subtract from the sum total of one’s life.
4. Raging Bull (1980) United Artists One of the most engaging, raw depictions of male fragility that’s ever been rendered on-screen, Raging Bull is as bare an example of Martin Scorsese’s immense talent as the filmmaker has ever made. Starring Robert De Niro as real-life boxer Jake LaMotta, Raging Bull has long been known for the dramatic physical transformation achieved by its lead star, who won his second Oscar for his performance in the film.
What makes the movie such a transcendent piece of art, though, is how beautifully Scorsese’s own style, which is alternately at its most plain and poetic throughout Raging Bull , both highlights and matches the intensity of De Niro’s seismic performance. The result is one of the most haunting portraits of a psychologically wounded man that you’ll ever see — and yet just one of several masterpieces that De Niro and Scorsese have made together.
3. The Wolf of Wall Street (2013) Paramount Pictures The Wolf of Wall Street is the most contemptuous film that Martin Scorsese has ever made — and also his funniest. A pitch-black comedy about infamous stockbroker and financial criminal Jordan Belfort, the 2013 film is a three-hour takedown of American greed that lampoons its subjects by fully, nakedly presenting the absurd excessiveness of their lives. It’s the closest Scorsese has ever come to remaking Fellini’s La Dolce Vita , but it finds its own note of brilliance by asserting that real criminals — financial brokers like Leonardo DiCaprio’s Belfort most of all — feel no sense of shame or internal conflict over the unnecessary indulgences of their lives.
The shamelessness of The Wolf of Wall Street ’s characters only makes the collective emptiness of its many lavish adventures all the more devastating, and it’s a testament to Scorsese’s talent that he’s able to make the film as simultaneously fun and chilling as he does.
2. Goodfellas (1990) Warner Bros. Pictures Goodfellas is the most widely beloved film that Martin Scorsese has ever made, and for good reason. Based on the life of former mobster Henry Hill, the 1990 classic is an exhilarating, anxiety-inducing portrait of the New York mafia that finds Scorsese operating at the peak of his filmmaking powers. Anchored by four iconic performances from Joe Pesci, Robert De Niro, Ray Liotta, and Lorraine Bracco, Goodfellas represents the perfect synthesis of subject matter and form.
It features the best Steadicam shots, needle drops, and coked-up, whip-fast edits of Scorsese’s career, and uses the prolonged montage structure of the first half of Francois Truffaut’s Jules and Jim to create a portrait of organized crime that is rich in its complexity and detail and expansive in its scope. It’s the rare film that is more than just the sum of its parts. There’s an ineffable quality to Goodfellas that’ll leave you coming back to it again and again for more.
1. Taxi Driver (1976) Columbia Pictures One could easily swap the top two films on this list. They are separated not by levels of greatness, but only by small degrees. However, in the 56 years that he’s been directing movies, Martin Scorsese has never made a film more flawlessly composed and constructed than Taxi Driver.
 An exploration of urban loneliness and male toxicity that has yet to be matched, this 1976 classic is, perhaps, the single greatest character study in cinema history. No other film quite as seamlessly immerses you in the mind of its lead, and few have ever presented the horrors of misplaced bitterness and hatred quite as effectively.
In a film that very easily could have gone wrong, Scorsese makes not a single wrong decision throughout Taxi Driver.
 From each of its immaculately grimy frames to Bernard Herrmann’s breathtaking score and Robert De Niro’s titanic lead performance as Travis Bickle, it’s a movie made of a million perfect decisions — an opera that never fails to hit the right note.
Editors' Recommendations The 10 best characters in the Hunger Games movies, ranked 7 best movie parodies ever, ranked The 5 best duos in action movies, ranked Every Halloween movie, ranked from worst to best 5 underrated Robert De Niro movies you should check out Entertainment The Assassination of Jesse James by the Coward Robert Ford Warner Bros.
After years of anticipation, Martin Scorsese’s latest movie, Killers of the Flower Moon, is finally here. The film, an adaptation of David Grann’s 2017 nonfiction novel of the same name, explores the real-life murders that were carried out against members of the Osage Nation after oil was discovered under their lands in 1920s Oklahoma. Running 206 minutes long and starring Scorsese mainstays like Leonardo DiCaprio and Robert De Niro, as well as a quietly transcendent Lily Gladstone, the drama is a chilling exploration of greed, systemic racism, and white supremacy.
Entertainment Most directors may go their entire careers looking for a muse. Martin Scorsese was lucky enough to find two in Robert De Niro and Leonardo DiCaprio. Scorsese's collaborations with the two actors helped him craft some of the most iconic movies of all time. Scorsese's collaborations with De Niro from the 1970s to 1990s turned the director into a household name, while his partnership with DiCaprio further cemented his legacy as the greatest living American filmmaker. And Scorsese may even become TikTok's biggest breakout star before his career ends.
De Niro has collaborated with Scorsese on ten films: Mean Streets; Taxi Driver; New York, New York; Raging Bull; The King of Comedy; Goodfellas; Cape Fear; Casino; The Irishman; and Killers of the Flower Moon. For DiCaprio, it's six films with Scorsese: Gangs of New York, The Aviator, The Departed, Shutter Island, The Wolf of Wall Street, and Killers of the Flower Moon.
Entertainment Martin "Marty" Scorsese is rightly heralded by many critics, peers, and moviegoers as America's greatest living director. No one can argue with that designation for a man whose filmography includes Mean Streets, Taxi Driver, Raging Bull, After Hours, The Age of Innocence, The Gangs of New York, The Departed, Hugo, Silence, and many, many more classics. And the 80-year-old director shows no signs of slowing down, with his latest movie, Killers of the Flower Moon, already reaping some of the best notices of his already impressive career.
With his Academy Award for Best Director, a Grammy for the excellent Bob Dylan documentary No Direction Home, and several Emmys already to his credit, Scorsese can add one more laurel to his awards mantle: TikTok star. Yep, that's right, the director of Goodfellas is now a breakout star on the social media platform thanks to his daughter, Francesca, who is herself a filmmaker, actress, and a prominent influencer. It's Francesca who brought Marty onto TikTok via several comedic Q&As, skits, and interviews that played on the generational and gender gaps between father and daughter. Here are a few TikToks that track the rise of Martin Scorsese as one of the platform's most unlikely stars.
Martin Scorsese finds out what nipple pasties are The first notable instance when Scorsese pops up on Francesca's TikTok is on March 26, 2021, when his daughter shows him a series of pictures of feminine items and asks him to guess what they are: Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
