Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix F1 Live Stream Stranger Things Season 5 Best New Movies Most Popular Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney+ UFC Live Stream Best Movies on Disney+ Home Entertainment Guides The 10 best movies on Tubi right now (October 2023) By Christine Persaud Close The best thing about Tubi is that it has tons of movies available to watch for free. The worst part, however, is that movies come and go all the time, so it’s tough to keep up. Thankfully, that’s where we come in. We have put together and continuously update this list of the best movies on Tubi right now. We revisit the selection every month so you can be sure it’s a good place to find out what’s actually available.
What is Tubi , anyway? Owned by Fox, it’s an advertising video on demand (AVOD) free ad-supported streaming service (FAST) that gives you access to plenty of movies, mostly older titles. The trade-off is that you have to spend a few moments of your time viewing ads. If you’re looking for what to watch on Tubi this month, here’s a solid selection of titles to consider.
Looking for more? We have also rounded up the best shows on Tubi.
5 bad 2000s action movies that you still need to watch right now The best movies on Amazon Prime Video (November 2023) The 50 best movies on Netflix right now (November 2023) Twilight (2008) 122m Fantasy, Drama, Romance Kristen Stewart, Robert Pattinson, Billy Burke Catherine Hardwicke watch on tubi watch on tubi This isn’t a riveting, thought-provoking movie by any means. But Twilight is teen angst entertainment at its best, a perfect movie to watch with your teens or enjoy as a guilty pleasure. Based on the Stephenie Meyer book series of the same name, Twilight is the first installment in the film series.
It’s the age-old tale of a love triangle except that here, it’s between a human young woman, a vampire, and a werewolf. Bella (Kristen Stewart) doesn’t seem to fit in at school, but when she meets Edward (Rob Pattinson), a vampire, she finally finds her people and her purpose. But can he save her? It’s one part fantasy, one part romance, and all parts corny, but absolutely fun to watch.
Read less 12 Angry Men (1957) 97m Drama Martin Balsam, John Fiedler, Lee J. Cobb Sidney Lumet watch on tubi watch on tubi From way back in 1957, 12 Angry Men is an interesting legal drama about a jury of a dozen men who must decide if a teenager charged with murder should be acquitted. As is typical with a jury in a controversial case with moving parts and moral ambiguity, they can’t seem to agree with one another. Each has his own values and thoughts and they are all steadfast in them.
Starring Henry Fonda, 12 Angry Men wasn’t a box office success. But it did receive several Academy Award nominations, and many consider it to be one of the best movies ever made. The American Film Institute also names the movie the second-best courtroom drama ever ( To Kill a Mockingbird is, of course, the first). It’s worth a watch if you haven’t seen it yet.
Read less Lars and the Real Girl (2007) 106m Comedy, Drama, Romance Ryan Gosling, Emily Mortimer, Paul Schneider Craig Gillespie watch on tubi watch on tubi The Barbie movie isn’t the first time Ryan Gosling has taken on a seemingly silly role and managed to turn it into comedy gold. In Lars and the Real Girl , he stars as the title character, a reclusive young man who deals with the grief of losing his mother and having an absent father in weird and sometimes irrational ways.
Despite every effort from his brother and sister-in-law, with whom he lives, Lars still can’t quite come out of his shell. That is, until he introduces his family to his girlfriend, Bianca, who, it turns out, is a lifelike doll. To him, however, she’s completely real. You can see where this is all going. Drawing parallels to Pygmalion , Lars and the Real Girl performed much better than naysayers might have thought thanks to the purity of the script and the talented cast.
Read less The Changeling (1980) 103m Horror George C. Scott, Trish Van Devere, Melvyn Douglas Peter Medak watch on tubi watch on tubi Not to be confused with the new TV series of the same name that streams on Apple TV+, this movie from the 1980s hails from Canada and follows a New York City composer who moves to Seattle from New York following the deaths of his daughter and wife in a tragic accident. But he soon realizes the mansion he moves into might be haunted.
Delivering some welcome scares this fall, the supernatural horror film is based on a screenplay by Russell Hunter, who claims he experienced similar supernatural events while living in Colorado. Considered a cult classic film, The Changeling should be on your radar to add to the Halloween watch list.
Read less The Return of the Living Dead (1985) 91m Horror, Comedy Clu Gulager, James Karen, Don Calfa Dan O'Bannon watch on tubi watch on tubi A perfect watch in time for Halloween, The Return of the Living Dead is a comedy horror movie about zombies accidentally released into a small town. The story follows various main characters, including a warehouse owner and his employees, a mortician, and several teenagers, as they encounter the flesh-eating undead and do their best to thwart attacks.
One of the most influential movies in the zombie subgenre, The Return of the Living Dead was created by John Russo, who had originally worked on Night of the Living Dead with George A. Romero back in 1968. It’s silly, crinegy, and will satisfy your desire for gruesome scares.
Read less Saw II (2005) 93m Horror Tobin Bell, Donnie Wahlberg, Shawnee Smith Darren Lynn Bousman watch on tubi watch on tubi Another movie to watch in preparation or celebration of Halloween, Saw II is the second movie in the continuing franchise. The Jigsaw Killer doesn’t just kill his victims – he tortures them. But he also sets out to teach them lessons pertaining to their personal traits and mistakes before murdering them in the most horrendous ways.
This movie stars Donnie Wahlberg, Glenn Plummer, Eric Knudsen, and others as Jigsaw’s latest victims. This time, the game involves eight people trapped in a house with a nerve agent that is slowing being piped through the vents and is poised to kill them in a few short hours. If they follow the rules, they might survive. But anyone who knows the movies knows that Jigsaw is anything but merciful.
Read less Point Break (1991) new 122m Action, Thriller, Crime Patrick Swayze, Keanu Reeves, Gary Busey Kathryn Bigelow watch on tubi watch on tubi Since Keanu Reeves is enjoying a resurgence in popularity thanks to the latest John Wick movie, it’s the perfect time to look back at some of Reeves’ earlier action movies.
 In the early ‘90s, the now bona fide action hero starred in Point Break , a crime action movie directed by Kathryn Bigelow.
The movie, which also stars the late Patrick Swayze and Gary Busey, is about Johnny (Reeves), a former quarterback and rookie FBI agent who helps a more experienced agent Angelo (Busey) investigate a series of bank robberies by a group who wear rubber masks of former presidents. The suspicion is that the criminals are surfers, so Johnny is sent to go undercover in the community. It’s a role that was tailor-made for Reeves and marked a perfect transition from his more comedic roles (think the Bill & Ted movies) to the action films for which he later became known.
Read less The Texas Chain Saw Massacre (1974) 83m Horror Marilyn Burns, Allen Danziger, Paul A. Partain Tobe Hooper watch on tubi watch on tubi As classic a slasher horror film as you’ll ever find, The Texas Chain Saw Massacre is must-see viewing for any fan of the genre. There are no flashy special effects, nor gratuitously gruesome scenes. But it is a terrifying movie about a group of friends who become victims of a family of cannibals and a sick killer known as Leatherface.
The first blockbuster slasher film to use power tools as a central weapon, The Texas Chain Saw Massacre is considered one of the most influential horror films ever made. What makes it even more impressive is that the movie was made on a relatively small budget with a core cast of mostly unknown actors.
Read less Train to Busan (2016) 118m Horror, Thriller, Adventure, Action Gong Yoo, Kim Su-an, Jung Yu-mi Yeon Sang-ho watch on tubi watch on tubi Hailing from South Korea, Train to Busan is an action horror zombie movie that’s intense from start to finish. Much of the film takes place on a high-speed train traveling from Seoul to Busan. Outside, there’s an undead apocalypse, and it has made its way onto the train, threatening almost certain, eventual death of the passengers inside.
At the heart of the story is a workaholic dad named Seok-woo (Gong Yoo), who is on the train with his young daughter, Su-an (Kim Su-an). He is taking her to see her mother on her birthday. As passengers move from car to car and the train stops to pick up survivors, Seok-woo finally realizes what’s important.
Train to Busan is a thrilling and heartwarming watch.
Read less The Usual Suspects (1995) 106m Drama, Crime, Thriller Gabriel Byrne, Stephen Baldwin, Kevin Spacey Bryan Singer watch on tubi watch on tubi A classic that fans love to watch again and again to look for intricate details that lead to the shocking reveal in the end, The Usual Suspects is also a must-watch for anyone who hasn’t seen it yet. The neo-noir mystery film that stars Stephen Baldwin, Gabriel Byrne, Benicio del Toro, Kevin Pollak, Chazz Palminteri, Pete Postlethwaite, and Kevin Spacey centers around the interrogation of physically disabled con man Roger “Verbal” Kint (Kevin Spacey), one of only two people to survive a massive fire and massacre on a ship.
Through the interrogation, Kint tells Agent Dave Kujan (Palminteri) a twisted, complicated story of events that confuses the officer. He alludes to the alleged perpetrator, a mysterious man named Keyser Söze. Fans of the movie know how it ends, but that doesn’t make it any less intriguing to watch over and over.
Read less Editors' Recommendations 3 movies and TV shows like the hit Max series Julia you should watch right now The 10 most popular shows on Max right now What’s new on Tubi in December 2023 The 10 best characters in the Hunger Games movies, ranked The 50 best shows on Netflix in November 2023 Tubi Movie images and data from: Entertainment There are always exciting new original series coming out on Hulu across every genre. Hulu offers tons of library content too, but the original shows really add value to the streaming service. Think shows like The Handmaid's Tale, Only Murders in the Building, and Ramy. The momentum continues as Hulu has released more new content toward the end of 2023, with additional shows planned into 2024 as well.
As for what to watch now, the best Hulu original series includes some old favorites, as well as new shows that have just been released or are coming soon. Plus, you can currently save with the Disney Bundle, which makes Hulu an even better deal by including not only Hulu, but also Disney+ and ESPN+, for just $14 a month.
Entertainment This month marks the 60th anniversary of Doctor Who, the hit BBC sci-fi series with a devoted fan following worldwide. And while new episodes of the 2005 revival series are coming to Disney+ later this month, fans of classic Doctor Who will get a chance to fully explore the Doctor's adventures even further. Tubi has announced that as of today, over 600 episodes of the original Doctor Who series are now streaming for free.
Doctor Who debuted on November 23, 1963, in an era before the preservation of television programs was given any priority. Because of that, 97 episodes are missing from the show's original 871-episode run. However, a few of those lost episodes were animated with archival recordings of the actors. Those recreations will also be available on Tubi under the Classic Doctor Who: The Animated Lost Stories banner.
Entertainment In the realm of the greatest thriller and horror movies is a subgenre that has grown in popularity over the years – the "death game" films. These are brutal and often disturbing works that thrust characters into ruthless games of survival, with only the most cunning, creative, or desperate players coming out alive. There are some standouts from the niche that are critically acclaimed thanks to their uniqueness, complexity, or bold genre-defining concepts that would go on to shape and influence modern death game movies.
From controversial classics like Battle Royale to beloved blockbusters like The Hunger Games, the best death game movies depict violent battles bound by twisted sets of rules that ensure there will be bloodshed. These adrenaline-pumping films can get viewers invested in the characters' fates and lives, which are inevitably cut short when the games begin.
Ready or Not (2019) Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
