Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix F1 Live Stream Stranger Things Season 5 Best New Movies Most Popular Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney+ UFC Live Stream Best Movies on Disney+ Home Entertainment Guides 5 best sci-fi movies from the past 5 years you should watch right now By Saab Hannah Close The best sci-fi movies often push the boundaries of what’s possible to depict on the big screen by taking on complex fictional concepts that are often rooted in reality. Recent films in the category embrace the intersection between science, philosophy, and humanity, and use mind-blowing visuals and cutting-edge cinematography to bolster filmmakers’ ambitious efforts.
Ad Astra (2019) Tenet (2020) Palm Springs (2020) Dune (2021) Everything Everywhere All at Once (2022) From the visually stunning and otherworldly story told in Dune to the mind-bending mix of existentialism and the multiverse in Everything Everywhere All at Once , the greatest science fiction movies from the past five years represent the best that the genre has to offer. With so much to explore in the genre, these are the few standouts that should be considered essential viewing for fans.
Ad Astra (2019) 20th Century Fox Director James Gray’s Ad Astra is a beautifully slow, yet riveting psychological sci-fi movie that revolves around a determined astronaut’s journey to find his father. Starring Brad Pitt as Major Roy McBride, the film depicts his perilous trip to Neptune, where his father led a crew that disappeared and has been presumed dead for 29 long years.
5 bad 2000s action movies that you still need to watch right now 7 best sci-fi movie actors 5 sci-fi movies on Netflix you need to watch in November Visually thrilling and perfectly paced, Ad Astra is undoubtedly among the most underrated sci-fi movies ever.
 It’s also an incredible drama about a father-son relationship transformed by obsession in the guise of science. Pitt delivers one of his most profound performances as a heartbroken son with too many unanswered questions in a story set against the backdrop of the vastness, silence, and darkness of space.
Tenet (2020) Warner Bros. Pictures / Warner Bros. Pictures Tenet is an inventive film from a director known for turning mind-bending concepts into blockbusters.
Christopher Nolan ‘s divisive 2020 movie tells the story of a former CIA agent, known simply as the Protagonist (John David Washington), who joins an organization that claims to be preventing an attack from the future. Their secret weapon? “Inverted” entropy, which allows them to reverse the flow of time.
Everything about Tenet is ambitious, from its visual effects and action sequences to its complicated plot and science fiction concepts – and for the most part, Nolan pulls it off. If anything, the film is an undeniable representation of what it means to innovate and take risks, even if those gambles don’t immediately pay off.
Tenet may be one of those visionary works that will only get better with time (if it hasn’t already).
Palm Springs (2020) Hulu/Neon Starring Andy Samberg and Cristin Milioti as an unlikely pair stuck in a time loop, Palm Springs is a charming sci-fi rom-com that offers a fresh spin on a familiar concept. Set in the titular location, the film follows a man and a woman who meet at a wedding, but soon find themselves waking up to the same events over and over again.
While there have been several great time loop movies over the years, what sets director Max Barbakow’s Palm Springs apart is its irreverent approach to the idea. It never takes itself too seriously and initially appears to be a lighthearted comedy, especially as the duo comes up with increasingly hilarious and absurd ways to pass the time. This is also precisely what makes its more emotionally hard-hitting moments so much more effective toward the end of the film, as philosophy, love, and time loops collide.
Dune (2021) Warner Bros.
Directed by Denis Villeneuve and based on the eponymous – and infamously difficult to adapt – novel by Frank Herbert, Dune is an epic sci-fi film that transports viewers to another world in the distant future. There, the noble House Atreides must tread carefully in their new home, the dangerous desert planet Arrakis. Paul Atreides (Timothée Chalamet), set to lead the people, is soon thrust into a deadly war that only the strongest can survive.
With sweeping alien landscapes, a haunting musical score, and a story for the ages, 2021’s Dune lays the groundwork for what could be an epic sci-fi franchise in the coming years. It’s already clearly the best adaptation of the legendary sci-fi novel, but even those who aren’t familiar with the source material will appreciate Villeneuve’s take on the otherworldly tale.
Everything Everywhere All at Once (2022) A24 At this point, the Daniels’ Everything Everywhere All at Once is a film that needs no introduction. The award-winning sci-fi drama movie stars Michelle Yeoh as Chinese-American immigrant Evelyn Quan Wang, who’s struggling to juggle her failing business, messy marriage, and most importantly, complicated relationship with her daughter. When she’s approached by an alternate version of her husband, who tells her she’s meant to save the multiverse, it’s understandably the last thing she needs.
Everything Everywhere All at Once quickly became an international phenomenon when it premiered last year, thanks to its absurdist humor paired with wildly frenetic visuals. Its sci-fi elements – multiversal travel and communication – serve mostly as vehicles for the existentialist movie’s crucial message about life, the choices people make, and the things that truly matter no matter where you are in the multiverse.
Editors' Recommendations 3 movies and TV shows like the hit Max series Julia you should watch right now 5 best death game movies you should watch right now 5 great comedies from the past 5 years you should watch right now 5 movies like Netflix’s The Killer you should watch right now 5 movies to watch if you liked The Marvels Entertainment As the calendar turns to November, many streaming services will gear their programming to reflect the holidays. However, there will still be other genres readily available. Tubi, for example, still has a great selection of sci-fi films. As a FAST service, Tubi customers can access the service for free and watch programs with ads.
Sci-fi fans need to watch these three films in November: a reboot of a storied franchise from the 1960s and 1970s, an iconic horror film from John Carpenter, and a sequel to Guillermo del Toro's monster movie.
Rise of the Planet of the Apes (2011) Entertainment Sci-fi movies are available in abundance. There are some great classic sci-fi movies you can watch on streaming services like Prime Video. But there are also compelling new ones that might be worth checking out.
If you’re looking for something relatively new and off the beaten path, three sci-fi movies on Prime Video you need to watch in November include one that debuted just this year, a popcorn thriller disaster sci-fi flick, and a totally under-the-radar movie from an independent filmmaker.
I’ll Be Watching (2023) I'LL BE WATCHING | Official HD Trailer (2023) | THRILLER | Film Threat Trailers Entertainment By the 1980s, science fiction had become a much less niche proposition. Several major movies had proven that it was possible to make popular versions of these stories, and TV followed suit shortly after that.
While there were several immensely popular sci-fi series airing during this period, a few also fell under the radar. These three shows are perfect examples of why sci-fi storytelling became much more popular in the 1980s across a wide array of different formats, whether it was in the U.S. or the U.K.
Red Dwarf (1988) Red Dwarf - Series 1 Trailer Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
