Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix F1 Live Stream Stranger Things Season 5 Best New Movies Most Popular Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney+ UFC Live Stream Best Movies on Disney+ Home Entertainment Guides 7 coolest sci-fi future dystopias, ranked By Joe Allen Close Sci-fi dystopias are a dime a dozen, but ones that feel truly unique or distinct are much more rare. A great sci-fi movie creates its own version of reality, even as the world in which its story is set also comments on the realities of our world.
7. Total Recall (1990) 6. The Hunger Games (2012) 5. The Matrix (1999) 4. Planet of the Apes (1968) 3. Akira (1988) 2. Wall-E (2008) 1. Blade Runner (1982)/Blade Runner 2049 (2017) Each movie on this list features a carefully crafted world that feels entirely real to the viewer, in spite of how miserable all the characters in the movie might be. These are carefully crafted worlds, which only helps them resonate more fully with the one we actually live in.
7. Total Recall (1990) Filled with the kind of vivid detail that only Paul Verhoeven could imagine, Total Recall is set in a 2084 where Mars has been colonized, and people who look like Arnold Schwarzenegger work construction.
7 best sci-fi movie actors Upload season 3’s ending, explained 3 sci-fi movies on Prime Video you need to watch in November The movie’s plot features a series of events that may or may not be reality, but what’s most impressive about this movie is the way it visualizes the many technologies that make up its dystopian future.
Total Recall is unafraid to show us Mars, and when we finally get there, it’s well worth the wait.
6. The Hunger Games (2012) Set in a distant future in which the U.S. has been devastated by climate change and is now both smaller and significantly less populous, The Hunger Games imagines a future where 12 districts are ruled over by a single Capitol that oppresses them in part by forcing some of their children to fight to the death.
That idea, which has its basis in history, is strong enough, but what makes this franchise’s dystopia feel so grounded is the way the dress and behavior of those with privilege is nearly perfectly contrasted with those in the districts who have nothing.
5. The Matrix (1999) Set in a world where humans exist simply to supply energy for machines, and are living in only a simulacrum of reality, The Matrix came at a moment when the world was teetering on the edge of something new. What made the movie such a smashing success, though, was the way it contrasted the pristine, but artificial world of the Matrix with the horrific dystopia of the real world.
The Matrix argued that the real world was well worth saving, even if it was fundamentally broken, and its sequels fleshed this idea out even more, even if some people hated them.
4. Planet of the Apes (1968) The great reveal at the end of Planet of the Apes is part of what made the movie so legendary, but even before we get to it, Planet of the Apes gives us a world run by apes filled with its own rules and legal structures.
What’s so striking about the movie is the way most of it plays out like a legal thriller, in which a human attempts to explain why he has the ability to speak on a planet where most humans do not. Although its final moments turn Planet of the Apes into a warning about the atomic age, the movie’s depiction of its titular planet is interesting long before then.
3. Akira (1988) Plenty of great movies have been made about the fallout from the dropping of the atomic bomb on Japan, but none imagines a more terrifying future than Akira.
Set in a world in which an atomic bomb was dropped on Tokyo 30 years earlier, the movie follows a young boy who is attempting to save his friend from a government experiment. When his friend’s powers begin to manifest, though, we see the secrets of the Japanese government on full display, as well as a horrifying metaphor for the trauma of living through the atomic bomb.
2. Wall-E (2008) Set on a version of Earth that’s covered in trash and has long since been abandoned by the human race, Wall-E tells the story of a trash collector robot who inadvertently discovers that Earth can be saved. The journey he goes on, which eventually turns into a love story, is beautiful in its own right, but Wall-E also imagines a future in which mankind still exists, though it has been almost entirely immobilized.
Its version of Earth, one in which the entire planet is now a desert, is even more stark, and Wall-E remains one of Pixar’s most overt political statements and one of its very best movies.
1. Blade Runner (1982)/Blade Runner 2049 (2017) The world of Blade Runner and its sequel feels so vividly realized, from its futuristic, pyramid-like architecture to its hologram technologies, that it almost runs away with this competition. The production design in both of these movies is legendary, as is the idea of replicants who are almost impossible to distinguish from people.
When combined, these two movies suggest a world both entirely remote from our own and somehow familiar, and it’s that combination that makes both movies so alluring.
Editors' Recommendations The 10 best characters in the Hunger Games movies, ranked 5 sci-fi movies on Netflix you need to watch in November 3 sci-fi movies on Tubi you need to watch in November 3 underrated 1980s sci-fi TV shows you should watch in November 3 underrated sci-fi movies on Amazon Freevee you should watch in November Sci-Fi Entertainment In 2011, Rise of the Planet of the Apes started a new chapter in the franchise by rebooting the film series and focusing on the story of the legendary ape leader Caesar. In 2017, War for the Planet of the Apes brought Caesar's story to a conclusion, but the reboot timeline lives on in next summer's Kingdom of the Planet of the Apes. Generations have passed since the time of Caesar, and while the new movies haven't caught up with the time frame of the original movies yet, the first teaser trailer for Kingdom reveals that humanity is looking more and more like the savages they were in the first Planet of the Apes.
Kingdom of the Planet of the Apes | Teaser Trailer Entertainment Like many other streamers this month, Max had a larger focus on horror than it did on sci-fi. But the good news for anyone who loves the best sci-fi movies is that two of director Denis Villeneuve's films, Dune and Blade Runner 2049, are back on Max after a few months away.
The only other noteworthy addition in October is Upgrade, a Blumhouse-produced sci-fi revenge thriller that has more in common with the John Wick movies than the title indicates. The rest of Max's lineup reflects the strength of Warner Bros. Pictures' vast cinema library, which includes a lot of the greatest science fiction movies ever made. That makes it really easy to narrow the choices down to the best sci-fi movies on Max. These are the films that will let your imagination soar.
Entertainment Fiction can go on forever in certain mediums, but all TV shows must eventually come to end. Fans of sci-fi TV shows have likely noticed that very few of their favorite shows were even afforded the chance to get a proper finale. Even in the streaming era, early cancellations are a bane for genre lovers. That's why it's so important to celebrate the shows that did get to exit the stage gracefully.
Our picks for the seven greatest sci-fi TV finales does leave out a few shows like Quantum Leap that left fans feeling unsatisfied by the fate of the main character. It's alright for a show to have an unhappy ending -- but it has to be the right ending for the show. As you'll see below, even a bleak conclusion is better than no ending at all.
7. Blake's 7 Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
