Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix F1 Live Stream Stranger Things Season 5 Best New Movies Most Popular Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney+ UFC Live Stream Best Movies on Disney+ Home Entertainment Guides Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? 5 best football movies ever, ranked By Blair Marnell Close Major League Baseball may bill itself as “America’s pastime,” but sports fans know that it was surpassed in popularity by NFL football decades ago. Football can be a brutal competition, but it has captured the hearts of sports enthusiasts across the nation. That’s why football movies have been a part of cinema for a very long time.
5. Friday Night Lights (2004) 4. The Longest Yard (1974) 3. Remember the Titans (2000) 2. Rudy (1993) 1. Any Given Sunday (1999) When picking the best football movies ever, we decided to focus on the films where football is a central part of the narrative. Movies like Jerry Maguire , which features football as a background element, didn’t make the cut. And if you already love sports movies, then you won’t be too shocked by the choices we made. These are the five best football movies ever.
5. Friday Night Lights (2004) Universal Pictures A small town’s passion for football is downright overwhelming in Friday Night Lights.
 Odessa, Texas, has no pro football teams of its own, so the town treats its high school football games with extreme reverence. Coach Gary Gaines (Billy Bob Thornton) and his Permian High School Panthers face enormous pressure to not only win in the regular season, but to take home a state championship.
The 50 best movies on Netflix right now (November 2023) The 50 best shows on Netflix in November 2023 The best Black movies on Netflix right now The Panthers’ championship dreams take a major blow early in the season when the star running back, James “Boobie” Miles (Derek Luke), goes down with an injury. Quarterback Mike Winchell (Lucas Black) and backup running back Chris Comer (Lee Thompson Young) step up to salvage the season. But some of the kids on this team face a real reckoning about football’s oversized importance in their lives, and what they really want to do outside of the games.
Rent or buy Friday Night Lights on Google Play , Prime Video , YouTube , and Apple TV+.
4. The Longest Yard (1974) Paramount There is a 2005 remake of The Longest Yard starring Adam Sandler, but the original film from 1974 is still the better of the two films. Burt Reynolds leads the cast as Paul “Wrecking” Crewe, a former NFL quarterback who has fallen from grace. After getting drummed out of the league for point shaving, Crewe gets himself in more trouble and ends up with an 18-month stint in prison. This gives Warden Rudolph Hazen (Eddie Albert) the idea of forcing Crewe to lead a team of inmate players against a squad of guards led by Wilhelm Knauer (Ed Lauter), captain of the prison guards.
Despite some initial setbacks, Crewe manages to put together a team that includes Samson ( James Bond ‘s Jaws, Richard Kiel), Nate Scarboro (Michael Conrad), and “Granny” Granville (Harry Caesar). What Crewe doesn’t initially realize is that Hazen and Knauer have no intention of playing fair with the inmates. And they expect Crewe to throw the game so they can easily win.
Watch The Longest Yard on Paramount+.
3. Remember the Titans (2000) Disney / Disney Denzel Washington stars in Remember the Titans , a film that is based on the true story of how T. C. Williams High School’s football team was racially integrated in 1971. The school’s previous football coach, Bill Yoast (Will Patton), was forced out in favor of a Black coach, Herman Boone (Washington). Although Boone initially resists the assignment, he agrees to take it on and he even invites Yoast to remain with the team as his defensive coordinator.
The players are not quick to get along, especially the captains, Julius Campbell (Wood Harris) and Gerry Bertier (Ryan Hurst). But under the leadership of both Boone and Yoast, the team comes together for an epic run that earns them a place in the history of their school and immortality on the big screen.
Watch Remember the Titans on Disney+.
2. Rudy (1993) TriStar Pictures The story of Rudy may take some extreme liberties with the real life tale of Daniel “Rudy” Ruettiger., but it’s such a great film that few will care if it bends the truth toward an inspiring narrative. In the early 1970s, Rudy (Sean Astin) is shaken by the death of his best friend and the realization that he may never escape his father’s life as a steel mill worker. That’s why Rudy risks everything to follow his dream of playing football at Notre Dame.
This is all easier said than done, especially since Rudy has neither the grade,s nor the money to attend college. But with the help of his friend, Dennis “D-Bob” McGowan (Jon Favreau) and a sympathetic boss, Fortune (Charles S. Dutton), Rudy finds a way in and eventually joins Notre Dame’s practice squad. From there, Rudy faces an uphill battle to even get on the field before his time in college runs out.
Watch Rudy on Hulu.
1. Any Given Sunday (1999) Warner Bros. Pictures Any Given Sunday is probably not the NFL’s favorite movie, because it shows a darker side of both the game and the business. But it is the best football movie, and one of director Oliver Stone’s greatest films. Al Pacino headlines the movie as Tony D’Amato, who has been the head coach of the Miami Sharks for 30 years. However, Tony’s reign appears to be ending, because the owner of the team, Christina Pagniacci (Cameron Diaz), is actively trying to force him out.
Sharks quarterback Jack Rooney (Dennis Quaid) faces similar pressures as his playing career winds down. When Rooney is injured on the field, third-string quarterback Willie Beamen (Jamie Foxx) is called upon to lead the team into the playoffs. Unfortunately, Beaman’s early success goes to his head and his ego fractures the team’s unity at the exact moment that they need to pull together.
Rent or buy Any Given Sunday on Google Play , Prime Video , YouTube , and Apple TV+.
Editors' Recommendations The best movies on Amazon Prime Video (November 2023) The 10 best characters in the Hunger Games movies, ranked 5 best death game movies you should watch right now 7 best sci-fi movie actors 7 best cosmic Marvel characters ever, ranked Entertainment There aren’t many filmmakers alive who have built as impressive of a filmography as David Fincher. After making a name for himself with his music video work, Fincher slowly but surely emerged over the course of the 1990s as one of the most promising directors of his generation. In the decades that have followed, he’s only continued to garner more respect and fans, helming some of the most acclaimed films of the past 30 years. Now, 3 years after his last film, Fincher is returning this fall with The Killer.
The movie, an assassin thriller starring Michael Fassbender, marks Fincher’s return to the same world of darkly perverse crime stories that he’s spent many years of his career operating in. With that in mind, now seems like as good a time as any to look back at all of the movies that the filmmaker has made throughout his career -- and rank them from worst to best.
11. Alien 3 (1992) Entertainment When you need to keep the kids occupied for a while, it's helpful to know the best kids movies on Netflix right now.
Netflix has an enormous library of kid-friendly content, including a host of original choose-your-own-adventure stories, but it's natural as a parent to want to know what your kids is watching. So, to help you find something quickly, we keep tabs on the collection every month and surface the best options here.
Entertainment Netflix may not have many sci-fi movies or fantasy films, but it does have an abundance of thrillers. There are so many thrillers on Netflix that it has to be one of the streamer's most popular genres. Between the original films and the new and classic films from other studios, Netflix is a prime destination for thrill-loving movie fans.
This month, Netflix added a number of thrillers including the original film, Locked In, as well as Cop Land, The Next Three Days, and Sea of Love. So if you're looking to find the best thrillers on Netflix right now, all you have to do is scroll down.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
