Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix F1 Live Stream Stranger Things Season 5 Best New Movies Most Popular Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney+ UFC Live Stream Best Movies on Disney+ Home Entertainment Guides Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Where to watch The Hunger Games movies By Dan Girolamo Close Eleven years ago, The Hunger Games made its highly anticipated debut in theaters. The dystopian adventure depicted the titular brutal fight to the death. Representatives, also known as tributes, from each of the 12 Districts compete in this televised competition as a way to keep the peace in the nation of Panem. Katniss Everdeen ( Causeway’s Jennifer Lawrence ) volunteers to take the place of her sister in District 12. Along with fellow District 12 tribute Peeta Mellark ( The Disaster Artist’s Josh Hutcherson), Katniss battles to stay alive and, in the process, fights to take down the system that created the games.
Where to watch The Hunger Games movies When is it streaming for subscribers? How much does it cost? Are The Hunger Games movies worth watching? Based on the book series by Suzanne Collins , The Hunger Games spawned three sequels: The Hunger Games: Catching Fire , The Hunger Games: Mockingjay – Part 1, and The Hunger Games: Mockingjay – Part 2.
The franchise was successful, both critically and commercially, and eventually grossed a combined $2.97 billion worldwide. A prequel, The Hunger Games: The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes , is set to come out in late 2023.
Details on where to watch the beloved franchise are located below! The 10 best characters in the Hunger Games movies, ranked 5 best death game movies you should watch right now Stop! And watch these 3 movies leaving Netflix by November 1 Where to watch The Hunger Games movies Image used with permission by copyright holder All four Hunger Games movies are available to watch in one place. If you are in the U.S., you canwatch the Hunger Games franchise on Netflix.
With over 220 million subscribers, Netflix is one of the most recognizable streaming services in the world. The service is home to streaming giants Stranger Things , Wednesday , and Bridgerton , three of the most-watched shows of all time in the streaming era. On the movie front, Red Notice, Don’t Look Up, and Bird Box are three of the most streamed movies on Netflix. Check out the weekly top 10 lists for movies and TV shows to learn about the popular titles on the service.
When is it streaming for subscribers? All four Hunger Games movies are now streaming on Netflix in the U.S.
How much does it cost? Image used with permission by copyright holder Netflix now has four pricing plans after adding an option with ads. The four plans are Basic with ads, Basic, Standard, and Premium. Basic with ads costs $7 per month and can be watched on one supported device at a time. Basic costs $10 per month and includes unlimited programming on one supported device. Standard is also unlimited, costs $15, and can be watched on two supported devices at a time. The top tier, Premium, also unlimited, costs $20 per month and can be watched on four supported devices at a time.
The Hunger Gamesfranchise can be streamed on all four membership plans.
Are The Hunger Games movies worth watching? Image used with permission by copyright holder The Hunger Game s films are a fun option for those moviegoers seeking a young adult franchise to consume. Children and teenagers will appreciate the theme of friendship and gravitate toward the entertaining protagonists. However, the ideas of poverty, wealth, suffering, and class add an element of sophistication to each film.
Gary Ross directed the first film, and Francis Lawrence helmed the final three films of the franchise. On Rotten Tomatoes , The Hunger Games franchise registers an average of 78% on the Tomatometer, with an audience score of 76%. On Metacritic , the film has an average Metascore of 68 and a user score of 6.9.
Editors' Recommendations 3 movies leaving Peacock in November you have to watch The Hunger Games: The Ballad of Songbirds & Snakes’ ending, explained 3 action movies on Netflix you need to watch in November Where to watch all The Expendables movies Where to watch Raiders vs. Cowboys: live stream NFL preseason games Sci-Fi Entertainment Week 3 of the NFL preseason is about to kick into high gear this weekend with 16 games on the docket featuring many of America's finest football teams. One of the marquee matchups of week 3 will feature the Kansas City Chiefs taking on the Cleveland Browns on Saturday, August 26.
What time will this game be televised? And where can you watch it? Can you watch it for free? Never fear as Digital Trends has all the answers for your football-watching needs.
Watch Kansas City Chiefs vs. Cleveland Browns live stream on NFL Network Entertainment Week 3 of the NFL preseason is about to kick into high gear this weekend with 16 games on the docket featuring many of America's finest football teams. One of the marquee matchups of week 3 will feature the Los Angeles Chargers taking on the San Francisco 49ers on Friday, August 25.
What time will this game be televised? And where can you watch it? Can you watch it for free? Never fear as Digital Trends has all the answers for your football-watching needs.
Watch Chargers vs. 49ers live stream on NFL Network Entertainment Week 3 of the NFL preseason is about to kick into high gear this weekend with 16 games on the docket featuring many of America's finest football teams. One of the marquee matchups of week 3 will feature the New England Patriots taking on the Tennessee Titans on Friday, August 25.
What time will this game be televised? And where can you watch it? Can you watch it for free? Never fear as Digital Trends has all the answers for your football-watching needs.
Watch Patriots vs. Titans live stream on NFL Network Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
