Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix F1 Live Stream Stranger Things Season 5 Best New Movies Most Popular Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney+ UFC Live Stream Best Movies on Disney+ Home Entertainment Guides The 10 most popular movies of 2022 By Anthony Orlando Close The year 2022 was a pretty decent one for cinema. From small auteur-driven films like Pearl and The Fabelmans to major blockbuster events like Nope and Elvis , the film industry delivered plenty of movies that packed theaters and rocked audiences worldwide.
Honorable mention: Black Adam ($168 million) 10. Puss in Boots: The Last Wish ($183 million*) 9. Sonic the Hedgehog 2 ($190 million) 8. Thor: Love and Thunder ($343 million) 7. The Batman ($369.3 million) 6. Minions: The Rise of Gru ($369.6 million) 5. Jurassic World: Dominion ($376 million) 4. Doctor Strange in the Multiverse of Madness ($411 million) 3. Black Panther: Wakanda Forever ($453 million) 2. Avatar: The Way of Water ($678 million*) 1. Top Gun: Maverick ($718 million) Now that 2022 is over, it’s time to look back on the movies that, for better or worse, stuck with us. These are the most popular movies of 2022 based on their U.S. domestic box office gross as of March 22, 2023.
 (The * indicates that the movie is still in theaters and making money.) Honorable mention: Black Adam ($168 million) Image used with permission by copyright holder Dwayne Johnson finally had his dream film come to life with Black Adam.
 But with lackluster reviews and less-than-desirable box office numbers, it didn’t quite shake up the DC Universe as many people had hoped.
Despite this, it still gave many audiences a stunning, thrilling, and enjoyable superhero romp as the Man in Black faces off against the Justice Society and the Intergang. It also caused quite a buzz by bringing back Henry Cavill’s Superman — at least for a little bit.
Black Adam ‘s place in the top 10 was recently usurped by DreamWorks’ Puss in Boots: The Last Wish , which showcased incredible legs in early 2023 and ended up beating the mighty Rock at the box office.
10. Puss in Boots: The Last Wish ($183 million*) Image used with permission by copyright holder When Puss in Boots: The Last Wish debuted around Christmas, no one had high expectations. After all, it had been nearly a decade since the last Puss in Boots movie, and CGI toons were a dime a dozen. Plus, aside from Minions: The Rise of Gru , animated movies aimed at kids had been struggling at the box office since the pandemic. And certainly, The Last Wish ‘s unspectacular opening weekend at the box office suggested it would have a hard time reaching $100 million, let alone making the top 10 list of box office champs for 2022.
Yet the swashbuckling cat persisted, and audiences kept on coming back week after week.
The Last Wish became a genuine word-of-mouth hit, due in large part to its different animation style, which clearly took inspiration from Spider-Man: Into the Spider-Verse ‘s kinetic visuals. The animated picture proved there’s life in the nearly two decade old Shrek franchise, and that animated movies could still pack audiences into theaters.
9. Sonic the Hedgehog 2 ($190 million) Image used with permission by copyright holder Earth’s favorite blue hedgehog raced back into theaters, this time joined by his two friends, Tails and Knuckles, to give audiences another thrilling adventure.
Sonic the Hedgehog 2 topped its predecessor and became the world’s highest-grossing video game film.
At the same time, it built up its own cinematic universe by tapping into the lore of the games and finally introducing the Chaos Emeralds and Super Sonic into the mix. In the end, this sequel sets up a promising adventure for Sonic and his pals that fans are stoked to see in the near future.
8. Thor: Love and Thunder ($343 million) Image via Marvel Studios In the God of Thunder’s fourth solo film , Marvel Studios brought the long-awaited return of Jane Foster as Mighty Thor. Though it earned over $760 million at the box office, many people were vocal about their disappointment in the film’s campy tone and underdeveloped CGI, calling it another example of Marvel’s recent decline with Phase Four.
Despite this, it still features plenty of vibrant visuals, exceptional performances, and hilarious moments that make Taiki Waititi’s latest film an electrifying thrill ride.
7. The Batman ($369.3 million) The Batman Image used with permission by copyright holder Director Matt Reeves brought a brand-new version of the Dark Knight and Gotham City to the big screen with this film. Unlike past cinematic iterations of the Batman mythos, this reboot takes a deep dive into the Caped Crusader’s morals, questioning whether or not he can really be considered a hero.
This all occurs in the backdrop of Batman’s war with the Riddler and Gotham’s corrupt elite, which makes for a suspenseful, gripping, and action-packed adventure through the city’s criminal underworld.
6. Minions: The Rise of Gru ($369.6 million) Image used with permission by copyright holder Gru and his Minions are at it again in this long-awaited prequel to Despicable Me.
 Though it follows a young Gru as he tries to become the world’s greatest villain, his Minions continue to steal the show as they try to save their “mini Boss” from the Vicious 6.
With so many hilarious and adorable moments from the titular yellow munchkins, the film understandably scored big at the box office. It also started that weird but despicable trend of people dressing up as Minions and annoying people in theaters.
5. Jurassic World: Dominion ($376 million) Image via Universal Pictures This threequel brought Colin Trevorrow back to the director’s chair, as well as the franchise’s original cast, for one last journey through Jurassic World.
 Like the other films in the franchise, Dominion turned a massive profit in theaters.
Nevertheless, the movie was still buried beneath a mountain of negative reviews, with many people agreeing that it’s now time to close Jurassic Park for good. Despite its flaws, it was still a treat to see the characters from both trilogies come together on the big screen, and with many jaw-dropping dinosaurs, Dominion felt like a solid conclusion for the franchise.
4. Doctor Strange in the Multiverse of Madness ($411 million) Image used with permission by copyright holder Doctor Strange’s second solo film had Marvel fans buzzing, especially since Spider-Man director Sam Raimi directed it. While it grossed almost a billion dollars, it still proved to be one of the MCU’s more divisive projects for not living up to its massive hype.
The film essentially brought back the Fantastic Four, the X-Men, and the Inhumans with the Illuminati, but audiences still felt this interdimensional blockbuster didn’t quite reach its potential. Nevertheless, with Raimi’s unique style and mind-bending visuals, this movie is undoubtedly one of Marvel Studios’ most distinct and director-driven films to date.
3. Black Panther: Wakanda Forever ($453 million) Marvel Studios As the sequel to one of the most culturally impactful films in recent memory, Wakanda Forever was sure to receive a massive audience. Though the film sadly lacked the late great Chadwick Boseman, it still provided a riveting tale of a nation trying to heal from its tragic loss in the midst of its war with the aquatic Talokans.
Cast members old and new deliver some outstanding performances, including a Golden Globe-nominated performance by Angela Bassett, and director Ryan Coogler’s beautifully crafted epic makes for a film that burns bright among Marvel’s many other movies.
2. Avatar: The Way of Water ($678 million*) Image used with permission by copyright holder Audiences waited 13 years for the sequel to James Cameron’s Avatar , so it naturally made a huge splash when it hit theaters. Like the original film, The Way of Water is a technological evolution of cinema, introducing a state-of-the-art motion capture system for its many breathtaking underwater scenes.
The Way of Water also has its fair share of naysayers, but it still ended up being an instant success, having garnered two Golden Globe Nominations for Best Drama and Best Director before it was even released. This film feels like the culmination of Cameron’s exalted career, combining elements of Titanic , The Abyss , Aliens , and The Terminator films to create just one of many more Avatar sequels to come.
1. Top Gun: Maverick ($718 million) Paramount Pictures It’s not often that a reboot does better than the original film, but Top Gun: Maverick soared with both critics and at the box office. After 30 years, audiences reunite with Pete “Maverick” Mitchell as he is tasked with teaching a new team of Top Gun fighter pilots, including the son of his late pal, Goose.
With jaw-dropping action, a refreshing and soulful story, and loving callbacks to the first movie, Top Gun: Maverick is a sequel that has become a legacy film for the ages.
Comic Book Movies DC Comics Marvel Sci-Fi Entertainment November has been a great month for movies at Netflix, with the premiere of David Fincher's The Killer, and recent box office hits like Insidious: The Red Door and Spider-Man: Across the Spider-Verse. This week, the new additions include The Impossible, a 2012 survival thriller that has already landed on the list of the 10 most popular movies on Netflix. For younger viewers, Minions is also heating up the charts despite the pending departure of the other films in the franchise at the end of the month.
There's only one holiday weekend left in November, so what's the best way to stay on top of everything new on Netflix? Why, we are, of course. Our list of the best movies on Netflix right now is updated every Friday, even on holiday weekends, so you can easily find something for every movie lover in your life.
Entertainment Summer is long over, and the fall season is in full swing. It's now late 2023, and just about everyone is subscribed to Netflix and Hulu. But would you be surprised if I told you one of the most underrated streaming services around is Tubi? The upstart streamer has tons of new and old TV shows from every decade and every genre imaginable. Want to watch the buzziest series that aired on Max? Tubi has it. Are you feeling nostalgic about that old movie or cartoon you used to watch as a kid in the '80s or '90s? Chances are, Tubi has it.
Tubi has so much content that it can be hard to choose which shows and films are worth your time. Digital Trends is here to help you sort out which ones are worth watching. Even though the streaming service is free, time is valuable, and no one wants to waste it watching subpar content.
Entertainment Rather than waiting for the Thanksgiving holiday weekend, Apple TV+ and Netflix dropped two of their biggest shows of the fall this week. Netflix's The Crown kicked off its sixth and final season with four new episodes, while the Apple TV+ Godzilla-adjacent series Monarch: Legacy of Monster, dropped its first two episodes this week, with new episodes arriving weekly thereafter. Also this week, Scott Pilgrim Takes Off hits Netflix, while Max gets in on the act this week by premiering the second season of Julia.
Netflix, Amazon Prime Video, Hulu, Max, Apple TV+, Disney+, Paramount+, and Peacock still have new shows coming for the rest of November, including a handful arriving next week. But if you've been thinking about cutting back on your streaming bill, then perhaps you should consider signing up for the ad-supported tiers. In the meantime, keep reading for our weekly roundup of the best new shows to stream.
When you're done here, check out the best new movies to stream this week, as well as the best shows on Netflix, best shows on Hulu, best shows on Amazon Prime Video, and best shows on Disney+.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
