Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix F1 Live Stream Stranger Things Season 5 Best New Movies Most Popular Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney+ UFC Live Stream Best Movies on Disney+ Home Entertainment Features 7 underrated sci-fi movies you need to watch By Anthony Orlando Close With the continued success of Star Wars , Avatar, and superhero movies in general, science-fiction remains one of the most popular genres in cinema. Despite this, certain sci-fi movies were either too much or not enough for mainstream audiences, and so they didn’t get enough recognition for their cinematic achievements upon release.
7. Color Out of Space (2019) 6. 2010: The Year We Made Contact (1984) 5. The World’s End (2013) 4. Star Wars: The Last Jedi 3. Snowpiercer (2013) 2. Nope 1. Blade Runner 2049 (2017) Though the general public has all but forgotten them, these films are intelligent and outstanding works of sci-fi that fans of the genre should watch.
7. Color Out of Space (2019) SpectreVision This sci-fi/horror hybrid is the perfect film for fans of Stephen King and John Carpenter.
 Based on a classic story by H.P. Lovecraft, director Richard Stanley’s passion project follows a family that faces unfathomable horrors after a meteor of a peculiar color crashes near their farm. Plants and animals start to mutate, time and space begin to unfold, and everyone loses themselves to the will of the color.
7 underrated action movies from the 1990s you need to watch The best movies of Douglas Trumbull, Hollywood’s VFX master Though the film is somewhat strange, it stays true to the spirit of Lovecraft’s story and mythos. It holds nothing back as its characters, including the children, fall victim to an incomprehensible and uncaring force that robs them of their lives. Shocking, psychedelic, and downright pessimistic, Color Out of Space is a cosmic nightmare that will overwhelm the senses, and it’s led by none other than Nic Cage.
6. 2010: The Year We Made Contact (1984) Image used with permission by copyright holder Though it is the sequel to 2001: A Space Odyssey , one of the greatest sci-fi films of all time, 2010 has very much flown under the radar since it premiered in 1984. The movie follows a team of American and Soviet astronauts traveling to Jupiter to investigate what happened on Discovery On e during its maiden voyage.
2010 answers many lingering questions from the first movie, such as why HAL became homicidal and what became of David Bowman. It also features stellar performances from its cast, which includes Roy Scheider, John Lithgow, Helen Mirren, and Bob Balaban.
Though this film may not measure up to Stanley Kubrick’s original masterpiece, it is still a stunning and thought-provoking movie all its own that stands as a worthy sequel to Arthur C. Clarke’s story. As it shows humanity on the brink of nuclear war, 2010 promotes a message of hope and unity that still resonates with the world today, making audiences take a good look at themselves as a microcosm in this ever-growing universe.
5. The World’s End (2013) Image used with permission by copyright holder Director Edgar Wright completes his Three Flavours Cornetto trilogy with this sci-fi/comedy gem. The film follows a childish alcoholic hoping to relive his glory days with his childhood friends by taking them on a pub crawl in their hometown. But when they arrive there, they are shocked to find everyone has been replaced with alien android duplicates intent on taking them next.
The premise of this film is very out there, and it sends a pretty bleak message about humanity in the end. But like many of Wright’s other works, The World’s End is a cinematic roller coaster that runs to perfection from start to finish. It features immaculate writing, hilarious jokes, and several outstanding performances that will keep audiences coming back to watch it again and again.
4. Star Wars: The Last Jedi Image used with permission by copyright holder Despite receiving widespread acclaim from critics and making over a billion dollars at the box office, The Last Jedi had been the target of massive vitriol from many members of the Star Wars fanbase. Since then, the film has remained divisive amongst audiences for its many controversial narrative choices, including Luke Skywalker’s jaded character, the death of Supreme Leader Snoke, Rey’s parents being “nobodies,” and Finn and Rose’s little adventure on Canto Bight.
The Last Jedi has its flaws, but it is still a bold and soulful film that honors the Star Wars legacy while asking fans to open their minds to something different. It doesn’t try to rehash multiple tropes from previous films like The Force Awakens , and it goes against audiences’ expectations to make them see the franchise through an entirely new lens. Also, it’s worth pointing out that the backlash for this film is arguably as big as that for The Empire Strikes Back , which is now considered one of the best films of all time, meaning that The Last Jedi could only be more well-received with time.
3. Snowpiercer (2013) Image used with permission by copyright holder Before Snowpiercer became a series on TNT, Parasite director Bong Joon-Ho concocted this cinematic adaptation of the graphic novel of the same name. The story takes place on a train carrying the last survivors of a new Ice Age inadvertently created by humanity in an attempt to stop global warming. The train becomes the setting of an all-out war as a group of lower-class passengers revolt against the elite oppressors controlling the train.
With an all-star cast including Chris Evans, Song Kang-ho, Tilda Swinton, Octavia Spencer, and Ed Harris, Snowpiercer is a unique sci-fi blockbuster that offers a layered and evocative analysis of human civilization. Nothing is ever as it seems on the titular train, and there are plenty of bizarre moments and profound symbolism that will send viewers’ brains off the rails.
2. Nope Image used with permission by copyright holder Jordan Peele’s latest film was a bold new step in his career as a director.
Nope follows a family of horse wranglers who try to capture footage of a UFO terrorizing their ranch. While the premise might sound simple, the film blends elements from old Westerns, traditional sitcoms, anime, and classic blockbusters. And just like with Peele’s other films, Nope includes social commentary about a variety of issues, such as people’s addiction to spectacle, how the entertainment industry exploits trauma and animals for profit, and the racist repression of African-Americans in history.
While Nope was declared one of the best films of 2022, it wasn’t nearly as profitable as Peele’s previous two films, having grossed just around $171 against a $60 million budget. Many casual audiences were left confused and displeased by all the things Peele packed into this one film. Nevertheless, Nope ’s terrific performances, beautiful visuals, and overall message should make audiences want to say yes to a second viewing.
1. Blade Runner 2049 (2017) Warner Bros. / Warner Bros. Pictures Even though Blade Runner is now considered one of the best sci-fi films ever made, its sequel was considered a disappointment at the box office despite receiving critical acclaim. Taking place 30 years after the original film, 2049 follows a replicant blade runner who discovers one of his own has secretly given birth to a child, sending him on a journey of self-discovery that determines the future of both humans and androids.
The franchise made an outstanding return to the big screen with its beautiful cinematography and mind-blowing visual effects, both of which won their respective categories at the Oscars. And like its predecessor, Blade Runner 2049 has garnered a cult following that has made it a classic that fans of the original film and the sci-fi genre should watch.
Editors' Recommendations 7 sci-fi movies that have great endings 7 obscure sci-fi movies from the 1980s you need to watch Features Sci-Fi Entertainment November has been a great month for movies at Netflix, with the premiere of David Fincher's The Killer, and recent box office hits like Insidious: The Red Door and Spider-Man: Across the Spider-Verse. This week, the new additions include The Impossible, a 2012 survival thriller that has already landed on the list of the 10 most popular movies on Netflix. For younger viewers, Minions is also heating up the charts despite the pending departure of the other films in the franchise at the end of the month.
There's only one holiday weekend left in November, so what's the best way to stay on top of everything new on Netflix? Why, we are, of course. Our list of the best movies on Netflix right now is updated every Friday, even on holiday weekends, so you can easily find something for every movie lover in your life.
Entertainment Summer is long over, and the fall season is in full swing. It's now late 2023, and just about everyone is subscribed to Netflix and Hulu. But would you be surprised if I told you one of the most underrated streaming services around is Tubi? The upstart streamer has tons of new and old TV shows from every decade and every genre imaginable. Want to watch the buzziest series that aired on Max? Tubi has it. Are you feeling nostalgic about that old movie or cartoon you used to watch as a kid in the '80s or '90s? Chances are, Tubi has it.
Tubi has so much content that it can be hard to choose which shows and films are worth your time. Digital Trends is here to help you sort out which ones are worth watching. Even though the streaming service is free, time is valuable, and no one wants to waste it watching subpar content.
Entertainment Rather than waiting for the Thanksgiving holiday weekend, Apple TV+ and Netflix dropped two of their biggest shows of the fall this week. Netflix's The Crown kicked off its sixth and final season with four new episodes, while the Apple TV+ Godzilla-adjacent series Monarch: Legacy of Monster, dropped its first two episodes this week, with new episodes arriving weekly thereafter. Also this week, Scott Pilgrim Takes Off hits Netflix, while Max gets in on the act this week by premiering the second season of Julia.
Netflix, Amazon Prime Video, Hulu, Max, Apple TV+, Disney+, Paramount+, and Peacock still have new shows coming for the rest of November, including a handful arriving next week. But if you've been thinking about cutting back on your streaming bill, then perhaps you should consider signing up for the ad-supported tiers. In the meantime, keep reading for our weekly roundup of the best new shows to stream.
When you're done here, check out the best new movies to stream this week, as well as the best shows on Netflix, best shows on Hulu, best shows on Amazon Prime Video, and best shows on Disney+.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
