Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix F1 Live Stream Stranger Things Season 5 Best New Movies Most Popular Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney+ UFC Live Stream Best Movies on Disney+ Home Entertainment Reviews Armageddon Time review: A gorgeous but empty memoir By Alex Welch Close Anthony Hopkins' standout supporting performance Darius Khondji's gorgeous cinematography 1970s New York City is recreated stunningly well on screen A story that feels too insular for its own good Clichéd themes you've seen plenty of times before An exploration of racial politics that leaves a lot to be desired There’s a gorgeous, grainy texture to writer-director James Gray’s meticulously crafted new film Armageddon Time.
 Gray, with the help of cinematographer Darius Khondji, has created one of the most visually inviting films of the year. Its soft yellows and hazy, golden hues work in concert with Happy Massee’s perfectly grimy, low-rent production design to create a version of late-1970s New York City that is simultaneously terrifying and inviting.
Armageddon Time is, in other words, made with the same, overflowing love that is on display in all of Gray’s films.
But beneath Armageddon Time ’s uniquely transfixing veneer is an inescapable emptiness. The story it tells is one of privilege and how coming to terms with one’s personal advantages is a fundamental, necessary part of growing up. That’s an admirably difficult topic for any filmmaker to try to dramatize on screen, but Armageddon Time ’s desire to be both a coming-of-age story and a scathing portrait of a specific moment in time leaves it feeling thematically confused. The resulting film is one that tries, unsuccessfully, to split the difference between offering a pat on the back and a shrug.
Courtesy of Anne Joyce/Focus Features Armageddon Time begins its story in a classroom. It’s the first day of eighth grade and, within minutes, Paul Graff (Banks Repeta) is being told off and yelled at by his fascistic teacher, Mr. Turkeltaub (Andrew Polk), over a harmlessly silly drawing. Moments later, Paul is joined at the front of his classroom by Johnny (Jaylin Webb), the only Black student in Paul’s class. Johnny, it turns out, already has a long-standing feud with Turkeltaub, who uses Johnny’s troublemaker antics to exercise his own biases. consequence-free.
Rosaline review: Kaitlyn Dever lifts up Hulu’s Romeo and Juliet rom-com riff Amsterdam review: An exhausting, overlong conspiracy thriller Vesper review: an imaginative sci-fi adventure Their shared love of trouble and hatred for their teacher creates a quick but strong bond between Johnny and Paul. Unfortunately, when a moment of naïve, innocent rule-breaking gets both Paul and Johnny in deep, deep trouble, Paul’s parents, Esther (Anne Hathaway) and Irving (Jeremy Strong), decide to transfer him to the same Trump-funded private school his brother attends. Paul’s enforced separation from Johnny sets off a chain of events that leads to dangerous consequences for one of them and a startling confrontation with the reality of American life for the other.
And therein lies the problem with Armageddon Time.
 Given the film’s stated themes, story, and setting, it shouldn’t be considered a spoiler to say that Webb’s Johnny ultimately gets in far, far more trouble than Repeta’s Paul ever does. The film’s depiction of how the American justice system routinely treats Black men and boys is, unfortunately, extremely realistic, and that might not be an issue were it not for the fact that Johnny’s fate essentially serves as nothing more than a way to remind Paul of his own privilege.
Courtesy of Anne Joyce/Focus Features Throughout the film, Johnny is given little-to-no interiority or personal life outside of his friendship with Paul. While Webb’s performance is quietly luminous and impressively layered, Johnny is never given the chance to ever become anything more than a vessel for the necessary lesson his white friend must learn. That’s a major flaw, one that grievously undercuts Armageddon Time ’s themes and leaves the film feeling startlingly shortsighted.
The film’s misuse of Johnny might have been forgivable if Armageddon Time was content to exist as nothing more than a snapshot of a time in American history that remains tragically familiar. However, two of the film’s final scenes attempt to pump life back into its protagonist’s rebellious spirit, first via a ghostly visit and then through a quietly dignified walk home. The former scene invokes a “never stop fighting” perspective that both directly contradicts Armageddon Time ’s nihilistic tone and paints Repeta’s Paul as the kind of clichéd, white ally archetype that has been prioritized over Black characters in movies for decades.
Courtesy of Anne Joyce/Focus Features None of this is to say that Armageddon Time is without its merits. Aside from the film’s cozy, sumptuous look, it features a scene-stealing supporting performance from Anthony Hopkins as Aaron Rabinowitz, Paul’s grandfather. Hopkins’ tender, clear-eyed turn as Aaron is stunning to watch, and many of Armageddon Time ’s best moments are those that center around him. One late-night bedside conversation, in particular, sees Hopkins deliver an impromptu monologue about the history of Paul’s Jewish family in such a devastatingly understated way that it’s impossible not to get wrapped up in the actor’s performance.
That scene also gives Armageddon Time the chance to explore its themes of privilege and persecution without having to rely on Paul and Johnny’s one-note, thinly sketched friendship. It’s such a shame then that Armageddon Time ultimately chooses to drive its points home not by further exploring Paul’s own family, but by making the kind of broad, one-sided statements about America’s racial politics that so many other movies already have. The film, consequently, feels like a major step down for Gray, a director whose films are, more often than not, elevated by the kind of empathy and interest in introspection that is disappointingly absent from Armageddon Time.
Armageddon Time hits select theaters on Friday, October 28. It expands nationwide on November 4.
Editors' Recommendations 7 biggest horror movie bombs of all time, ranked by adjusted box office losses Decision to Leave review: An achingly romantic noir thriller Tár review: Cate Blanchett soars in Todd Field’s ambitious new drama Entergalactic review: a simple but charming animated romance God’s Creatures review: an overly restrained Irish drama Product Reviews Entertainment Andrew Dominik’s Blonde opens, quite fittingly, with the flashing of bulbs. In several brief, twinkling moments, we see a rush of images: cameras flashing, spotlights whirring to life, men roaring with excitement (or anger — sometimes it’s hard to tell the difference), and at the center of it all is her, Marilyn Monroe (played by Ana de Armas), striking her most iconic pose as a gust of wind blows up her white dress. It’s an opening that makes sense for a film about a fictionalized version of Monroe’s life, one that firmly roots the viewer in the world and space of a movie star. But to focus only on de Armas’ Marilyn is to miss the point of Blonde’s opening moments.
As the rest of Dominik’s bold, imperfect film proves, Blonde is not just about the recreation of iconic moments, nor is it solely about the making of Monroe’s greatest career highlights. It is, instead, about exposure and, in specific, the act of exposing yourself — for art, for fame, for love — and the ways in which the world often reacts to such raw vulnerability. In the case of Blonde, we're shown how a world of men took advantage of Monroe’s vulnerability by attempting to control her image and downplay her talent.
Entertainment Meet Cute wants to be a lot of things at once. The film, which premieres exclusively on Peacock this week, is simultaneously a manic time travel adventure, playful romantic comedy, and dead-serious commentary on the messiness of romantic relationships. If that sounds like a lot for one low-budget rom-com to juggle — and within the span of 89 minutes, no less — that’s because it is. Thanks to the performance given by its game lead star, though, there are moments when Meet Cute comes close to pulling off its unique tonal gambit.
Unfortunately, the film’s attempts to blend screwball comedy with open-hearted romanticism often come across as hackneyed rather than inspired. Behind the camera, director Alex Lehmann fails to bring Meet Cute’s disparate emotional and comedic elements together, and the movie ultimately lacks the tonal control that it needs to be able to discuss serious topics like depression in the same sequence that it throws out, say, a series of slapstick costume gags. The resulting film is one that isn't memorably absurd so much as it is mildly irritating.
Entertainment Pearl is a candy-coated piece of rotten fruit. The film, which is director Ti West’s prequel to this year's X, trades in the desaturated look and 1970s seediness of its parent film for a lurid, Douglas Sirk-inspired aesthetic that seems, at first, to exist incongruently with its story of intense violence and horror. But much like its titular protagonist, whose youthful beauty and Southern lilt masks the monster within, there’s a poison lurking beneath Pearl’s vibrant colors and seemingly untarnished Depression-era America setting.
Set around 60 years before X, West’s new prequel does away with the por nstars, abandoned farms, and eerie old folks that made its predecessor’s horror influences clear and replaces them with poor farmers, charming film projectionists, and young women with big dreams. Despite those differences, Pearl still feels like a natural follow-up to X. The latter film, with its use of split screens and well-placed needle drops, offered a surprisingly dark rumination on the horror of old age. Pearl, meanwhile, explores the loss of innocence and, in specific, the often terrifying truths that remain after one’s dreams have been unceremoniously ripped away from them.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
