Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix F1 Live Stream Stranger Things Season 5 Best New Movies Most Popular Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney+ UFC Live Stream Best Movies on Disney+ Home Entertainment Guides Barbie’s ending, explained By David Caballero Close Hi, Barbie! Greta Gerwig’s highly anticipated comedy Barbie finally hit theaters, taking audiences to the pink-colored world of Barbieland. Margot Robbie stars as Barbie opposite Ryan Gosling as Ken, and they lead an impressive ensemble including America Ferrera, Ariana Greenblatt, Michael Cera, Issa Rae, and Will Ferrell. The film follows Stereotypical Barbie, who begins experiencing weird occurrences that lead her to visit the real world alongside her perennial companion, Ken.
Welcome to the real world, Barbie Back to Kendom What happens at the end of Barbie? Barbie has long been considered among the most exciting films set to open in July 2023 , and it’s currently tracking for a massive opening weekend of anywhere between $100 million and $140 million. The film will surely satisfy audiences looking for a colorful dose of childhood nostalgia starring the world’s most famous doll, although its strong message might be polarizing in the long run. However, Barbie handles heavy and potentially thorny themes with impressive skill and sticks the landing with a brilliant and hopeful ending that will leave audiences feeling as cheery and unabashedly hopeful as a Barbie doll.
Note: This article contains major spoilers for Barbie.
The Hunger Games: The Ballad of Songbirds & Snakes’ ending, explained The Fall of the House of Usher’s ending, explained The Creator’s ending, explained Welcome to the real world, Barbie Warner Bros. Pictures Barbie follows Margot Robbie as Stereotypical Barbie. She lives in Barbieland, ruled by the Barbies, who always have a perfect day. Unlike the Barbies, the Kens in Barbieland are considered useless and often taken for granted. Stereotypical Barbie doesn’t have a career or defined purpose like her fellow Barbies, although that never seemed to bother her. That is until she begins experiencing sudden and puzzling feelings of confusion, insecurity, self-awareness, and even death. Her quest for answers takes her to the real world with her companion, Stereotypical Ken, by her side.
In the real world, Stereotypical Barbie sees how different things are. Women are the ones who are taken for granted, while men rest comfortably at the top of the food chain. Inspired by his newfound knowledge of the patriarchy, Stereotypical Ken returns to Barbieland, determined to alter the balance between the Barbies and Kens. Meanwhile, Stereotypical Barbie befriends Gloria, a Mattel employee with a contentious relationship with her daughter, who rediscovered her Barbie dolls and began playing with them. Gloria’s frustrations were passed onto the doll, explaining Stereotypical Barbie’s existential crisis. Thus, Stereotypical Barbie takes Gloria and her teenage daughter, Sasha, back to Barbieland, where things have changed drastically.
Back to Kendom Warner Bros. Pictures In Stereotypical Barbie’s absence and with his newfound knowledge of the patriarchy, Stereotypical Ken has mounted a revolution. He and his fellow Kens have brainwashed the Barbies, turning them into subservient and unambitious women who live to serve their men. Stereotypical Ken then coldly casts Stereotypical Barbie out, telling her it’s her turn to feel unimportant. Depressed and feeling useless, Stereotypical Barbie succumbs to her pain. However, Gloria’s words inspire her, and she decides to reverse the brainwashing and take Barbieland back before the Kens turn it into Kendom.
Once the Barbies are free again, they manipulate the Kens and turn them against each other, leading them to an all-out battle. During the fight, the Kens realize they are all the same as they share identical feelings of inadequacy and unimportance. They reconcile during the incredible musical number “I’m Just Ken” and return to find the Barbies have taken back their land and restored the status quo. The Barbies understand that their treatment of the Kens has been unfair. Thus, they set out to build a more fair world for everyone while maintaining decisive control over Barbieland.
What happens at the end of Barbie? Stereotypical Barbie and Ken apologize to each other, with Ken painfully admitting he only exists to love her. She rejects the notion and encourages him to find his identity as an individual. Ken thanks her and begins a path of self-discovery away from her. Still unsure of who she is or what she wants, Stereotypical Barbie meets with Ruth Handler, the creator of Barbie, who explains Barbie’s story has no ending. Inspired by her words, Stereotypical Barbie decides to become a human and returns to the real world with Gloria and Sasha. The film ends with Stereotypical Barbie, now named Barbara Handler, facing her first test as a human: a gynecologist appointment.
Barbie has no post-credit scenes, although fans can always enjoy the incredible music playing over the credits.
Editors' Recommendations Thanksgiving’s ending, explained The Marvels’ ending, explained Only Murders in the Building season 3 ending, explained A Haunting in Venice’s ending, explained Is The Nun 2 streaming? Entertainment Warning: This article contains major spoilers for The Nun 2 (2023).
The Nun 2 begins four years after the events of its predecessor. When it picks back up with Sister Irene (Taissa Farmiga), she’s taken to living a peaceful life in a countryside convent. Her peace is disrupted by the return of her former, thought-to-be-vanquished demonic foe, Valak (Bonnie Aarons), whose recent killing spree through Western Europe has caught the attention of the Catholic Church.
Entertainment It can sometimes feel like, in the year 2023, great comedy movies are in short supply. There was an era in the early 2000s when they were dominant at the box office, but that era is definitely over.
In spite of this, though, there are still a few comedy gems every year, and 2023 has accounted for more than its fair share. Even though the year isn’t over yet, we already have three genuinely great comedies that you should check out as soon as you can.
Barbie (2023) Barbie | Main Trailer Entertainment 2023 is the year that Warner Bros. scheduled four different DC movies for theatrical release. So far, it's been a pretty rough year with Shazam! Fury of the Gods and The Flash both failing to live up to their respective box office expectations. Until Aquaman and the Lost Kingdom arrives in December, Blue Beetle is the best chance for DC to right its ship. But it's far too soon to say how casual fans will respond to this movie.
Cobra Kai's Xolo Maridueña stars in the film as Jaime Reyes, the young man who becomes Blue Beetle after a sentient alien Scarab known as Khaji-Da (Becky G) bonds with his body. Jenny Kord (Bruna Marquezine), the daughter of the previous Blue Beetle, Ted Kord, gave Jaime the Scarab to keep it away from her corrupt aunt, Victoria Kord (Susan Sarandon), and her right-hand man, Ignacio Carapax (Raoul Max Trujillo).
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
