Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix F1 Live Stream Stranger Things Season 5 Best New Movies Most Popular Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney+ UFC Live Stream Best Movies on Disney+ Home Entertainment Guides The best Amazon Original movies right now By Nick Perry , Blair Marnell and Jason Struss Close HBO Max and Netflix may get all the press, but Amazon’s Prime Video service has quietly built up an impressive library of movies, TV shows, and documentaries to watch. Whether you’re looking for a sci-fi blockbuster, a thought-provoking documentary, or a hilarious comedy, Prime Video will have something to keep you entertained.
Recently, Amazon has invested heavily in original movies and acquisitions of films from other studios to stream exclusively on Prime Video. Today, the collection is impressive and deep, which could be problematic when you want to find something to watch.
To help you out, we’ve rounded up the best Amazon original movies that you can stream right now.
The 50 best movies on Netflix right now (November 2023) The best Hulu original series right now The 50 best anime on Hulu right now Can’t find what you’re looking for? We also have helpful guides to the Best Amazon original series and the best Netflix original movies.
Air (2023) 112m Drama, History Matt Damon, Ben Affleck, Jason Bateman Ben Affleck watch on Amazon watch on Amazon Ever wonder how a young man became a legend? That’s what director Ben Affleck explores in his new movie Air , which stars Matt Damon as Sonny Vaccaro, a gung-ho Nike salesman who believes a young basketball player named Michael Jordan will revolutionize sports and thus should be the face of Nike. In 1984, Nike dominated the running market , but basketball was its weakness as rival companies Converse and Adidas had all the best NBA players wearing their shoes. Vaccaro convinces Nike co-founder Phil Knight (Affleck) to devote all its resources to signing Jordan to wear its shoes, a gamble that eventually led to a billion-dollar empire.
In addition to Damon and Affleck, Air also stars Viola Davis ( The Suicide Squad ) as Michael Jordan’s mother Deloris, Jason Bateman ( Ozark ) as Nike employee Rob Strasser; Marlon Wayans ( The Curse of Bridge Hollow ) as George Raveling, Jordan’s assistant coach on the 1984 U.S. Olympic team; Chris Messina ( Based on a True Story ) as Jordan’s agent, David Falk; Chris Tucker ( Rush Hour ) as Nike executive Howard White; Matthew Maher ( Our Flag Means Death ) as Nike designer Peter Moore; and Julius Tennon ( How to Get Away with Murder ) as Jordan’s father, James R. Jordan Sr.
Read less Judy Blume Forever (2023) new 97m Documentary Judy Blume, Molly Ringwald, Lena Dunham Davina Pardo, Leah Wolchok watch on Amazon watch on Amazon Perhaps the most amazing thing about Amazon Studios’ new documentary Judy Blume Forever is that the author herself, Judy Blume, is not only still alive, but she was able to be an active participant in the movie. The film essentially tells her life story, often in her own words, as it chronicles her journey from a housewife to a beloved children’s author whose books are still widely read.
Several famous commentators also share their thoughts about Blume, including Molly Ringwald, Lena Dunham, Anna Konki, Samantha Bee, Mary H.K. Choi, and Jacqueline Woodson. But the ones who really stand out are the ordinary women whose lives were deeply touched by Blume and her stories.
Read less Shotgun Wedding (2022) r 100m Comedy, Action Jennifer Lopez, Josh Duhamel, Jennifer Coolidge Jason Moore watch on Amazon watch on Amazon Darcy (Jennifer Lopez) and Tom (Josh Duhamel) dreamed up the ultimate destination wedding.
Unfortunately, upon their arrival, the entire wedding party is taken hostage. Now, despite both individuals suffering from cold feet, as well as some opinionated and grumpy family members, everyone has to dig deep to give “‘Til Death Do Us Part” a whole new meaning.
Read less Somebody I Used to Know (2023) 106m Comedy, Drama, Romance Alison Brie, Jay Ellis, Kiersey Clemons Dave Franco watch on Amazon watch on Amazon Dave Franco and Alison Brie team up for this romantic comedy that casts Brie as a workaholic television producer who decides to return to her hometown after suffering a professional setback.
The film is directed by Franco and co-written by him and Brie, and has her character reconnecting with her currently engaged first love (Jay Ellis). Their reunion sets off a series of events that has everyone getting in touch with who they are and who they really want to be in life and love.
Read less Nanny (2022) 98m Horror, Drama Anna Diop, Michelle Monaghan, Sinqua Walls Nikyatu Jusu watch on Amazon watch on Amazon Read less Argentina, 1985 (2022) 141m Drama, Crime, History Ricardo Darín, Peter Lanzani, Alejandra Flechner Santiago Mitre watch on Amazon watch on Amazon This critically acclaimed historical drama released in 2022 explores the events surrounding 1985’s “Trial of the Juntas,” in which the ringleaders of Argentina’s last bloody civil-military dictatorship were prosecuted.
The events that transpired became the basis for the most prominent war crimes trial since the Nuremberg Trials, and the first major trial for war crimes conducted by a civilian court. Nominated for an Oscar for Best International Feature (it lost to Netflix’s All Quiet on the Western Front ), Argentina 1985 also won a Golden Globe Award en route to becoming one of the country’s most celebrated films of all time.
Read less Good Night Oppy (2022) pg 105m Documentary Angela Bassett, Steve Squyres, Jennifer Trosper Ryan White watch on Amazon watch on Amazon In the same way that audiences fell in love with Pixar’s cute Wall•E , watching Good Night Oppy draws you into the gushy human emotion surrounding a robot roaming Mars 50 million miles away. But that’s because this documentary is as much about the people at NASA that made the Opportunity Mars Exploration Rover mission possible as it is about the rover itself.
Narrated by Angela Basset, Good Night Oppy tells the inspiring story of Opportunity, a six-wheeled, solar-powered vehicle that touched down on the Red Planet in January 2004 and was supposed to roam and explore the landscape for a predetermined 90 days. But beyond anyone’s expectations, Oppy’s mission endured for nearly 15 years before going dark. Told through interviews with many of the scientists and engineers on the project, as well as archival footage, this is a feel-good doc that’s not to be missed.
Read less Thirteen Lives (2022) new pg-13 147m Drama, Thriller Viggo Mortensen, Colin Farrell, Joel Edgerton Ron Howard watch on Amazon watch on Amazon Read less Anything's Possible (2022) new pg-13 96m Romance, Comedy, Drama Eva Reign, Abubakr Ali, Renée Elise Goldsberry Billy Porter watch on Amazon watch on Amazon Amazon breaks the rom-com mold with this Gen Z romance that focuses on a trans high school girl navigating the troubles of dating while trans. Kelsa (Eva Reign) knows who she is, but she can’t control the stigma that her classmates fear they may endure from asking her out. Khal (Abubakr Ali), however, develops feelings for Kelsa that he can’t shake. So, despite knowing the drama that might ensue, Khal summons up the courage to ask Kelsa out and see where those feelings lead.
Billy Porter directs this off-the-cuff coming-of-age rom-com (enough hyphens for you?) that stars Eva Reign as Kelsa, a trans high school girl who is supremely confident in her skin yet can’t seem to find romance. That’s in part due to the stigma feared by her classmates should someone ask her out. But when Khal (Abubakr Ali) gets a crush on Kelsa, he summons the courage to ask her out, despite what his peers might say.
Read less Emergency (2022) pg-13 105m Comedy, Drama, Thriller Donald Watkins, RJ Cyler, Sebastian Chacon Carey Williams watch on Amazon watch on Amazon Read less Lucy and Desi (2022) pg-13 102m Documentary Lucie Arnaz, Bette Midler, Carol Burnett Amy Poehler watch on Amazon watch on Amazon Read less Being the Ricardos (2021) 132m Drama, History Nicole Kidman, Javier Bardem, J.K. Simmons Aaron Sorkin watch on Amazon watch on Amazon Read less I Want You Back (2022) r 117m Comedy, Romance Jenny Slate, Charlie Day, Scott Eastwood Jason Orley watch on Amazon watch on Amazon Read less Master (2022) r 98m Horror, Thriller, Drama, Mystery Regina Hall, Zoe Renee, Amber Gray Mariama Diallo watch on Amazon watch on Amazon Read less The Electrical Life of Louis Wain (2021) pg-13 111m Drama, History Benedict Cumberbatch, Claire Foy, Richard Ayoade Will Sharpe watch on Amazon watch on Amazon Read less Val (2021) r 109m Documentary Val Kilmer, Jack Kilmer, Mercedes Kilmer Leo Scott, Ting Poo watch on Amazon watch on Amazon Read less Annette (2021) r 140m Drama, Romance, Musical Adam Driver, Marion Cotillard, Simon Helberg Leos Carax watch on Amazon watch on Amazon Read less The Tomorrow War (2021) pg-13 138m Action, Science Fiction, Adventure Chris Pratt, Yvonne Strahovski, J.K. Simmons Chris McKay watch on Amazon watch on Amazon Read less Tom Clancy's Without Remorse (2021) r 109m Action, Thriller, War Michael B. Jordan, Jamie Bell, Jodie Turner-Smith Stefano Sollima watch on Amazon watch on Amazon Read less Best movies on Amazon Prime Best shows on Amazon Prime Best movies on Netflix Best movies on Disney+ Best movies on HBO Max Best movies on Hulu Radioactive (2020) pg-13 111m Drama, Romance, History Rosamund Pike, Sam Riley, Aneurin Barnard, Anya Taylor-Joy Marjane Satrapi watch on Amazon watch on Amazon Read less Black Box (2020) 100m Horror, Science Fiction, Thriller Mamoudou Athie, Phylicia Rashād, Amanda Christine Emmanuel Osei-Kuffour, Jr.
watch on Amazon watch on Amazon Read less Coming 2 America (2021) pg-13 110m Comedy Eddie Murphy, Arsenio Hall, Morgan Freeman Craig Brewer watch on Amazon watch on Amazon Read less Small Axe (2020) tv-ma 1 Season Drama Letitia Wright, John Boyega, Shaun Parkes Steve McQueen watch on Amazon watch on Amazon Read less One Night in Miami... (2020) pg-13 114m Drama Kingsley Ben-Adir, Eli Goree, Aldis Hodge Regina King watch on Amazon watch on Amazon Read less Sound of Metal (2020) r 121m Drama, Music Riz Ahmed, Olivia Cooke, Paul Raci Darius Marder watch on Amazon watch on Amazon Read less The Vast of Night (2019) pg-13 91m Mystery, Science Fiction, Thriller Sierra McCormick, Jake Horowitz, Bruce Davis Andrew Patterson watch on Amazon watch on Amazon Read less The Big Sick (2017) r 120m Comedy, Drama, Romance Kumail Nanjiani, Zoe Kazan, Holly Hunter Michael Showalter watch on Amazon watch on Amazon Read less Manchester by the Sea (2016) r 138m Drama Casey Affleck, Michelle Williams, Kyle Chandler Kenneth Lonergan watch on Amazon watch on Amazon Read less Honey Boy (2019) r 94m Drama Shia LaBeouf, Lucas Hedges, Noah Jupe, FKA Twigs Alma Har'el watch on Amazon watch on Amazon Read less Late Night (2019) r 102m Comedy, Drama Emma Thompson, Mindy Kaling, Max Casella Nisha Ganatra watch on Amazon watch on Amazon Read less Paterson (2016) r 118m Comedy, Drama, Romance Adam Driver, Golshifteh Farahani, Barry Shabaka Henley Jim Jarmusch watch on Amazon watch on Amazon Read less The Handmaiden (2016) 145m Thriller, Drama, Romance Kim Min-hee, Kim Tae-ri, Ha Jung-woo Park Chan-wook watch on Amazon watch on Amazon Read less Suspiria (2018) r 152m Horror, Thriller Dakota Johnson, Tilda Swinton, Mia Goth Luca Guadagnino watch on Amazon watch on Amazon Luca Guadagnino’s remake of the 1977 Italian film is a perfect blend of rhythmical allure and psychical horror, offering a uniquely gratifying feeling. Dakota Johnson plays the role of Susie, a protected, religious American woman who journeys to Berlin toward the end of the ’70s with aspirations of joining an avant-garde dance organization she’s admired for some time. As with many other dance movies, Susie develops under her instructor, Madame Blanc’s (Tilda Swinton) guidance, and quickly becomes the leading dancer.
However, Susie possesses a mystical and bewitching power over her audience, which Blanc eventually uses for her own benefit. Unfortunately, when Susie discovers her exploitation, but by then, it’s much too late.
Read less Beautiful Boy (2018) r 121m Biography, Drama Steve Carell, Timothee Chalamet, Maura Tierney, Amy Ryan Felix van Groeningen watch on Amazon watch on Amazon Movie viewers loved this film much more than the critics. This captivating film is based on two powerful memoirs, Beautiful Boy: A Father’s Journey Through His Son’s Addiction by David Sheff and Tweak: Growing Up on Methamphetamines by Nic Sheff, and was also co-produced by the legendary Brad Pitt. The movie examines a father and son’s relationship as they battle a serious addiction.
Read less Editors' Recommendations The best new shows to stream on Netflix, Hulu, Max (HBO), and more The 50 best shows on Netflix in November 2023 The best movies and shows on Shudder right now (November 2023) The best Black movies on Netflix right now The 10 most popular movies on Netflix right now Amazon Best Products Streaming Guides Movie images and data from: Entertainment The best feel-good movies on Netflix right now include plenty of romantic comedies to watch while snuggling up with your partner, pet, or favorite blanket.
There's also a concert tour documentary courtesy of Taylor Swift, which is particularly topical due to the singing sensation's dominance of the pop culture zeitgeist. We've sorted through the best feel-good movies on Netflix and feel good about the list below.
Entertainment It's not hard to find a great comedy movie on Netflix. Unlike some other genres like sci-fi and fantasy, Netflix keeps its lineup of comedies well-stocked with some recent box-office hits, like Jennifer Lawrence's No Hard Feelings, as well as classic titles on loan from other studios and a lot of original films. This month's new additions include the first theatrical adaptation of The Addams Family, The Big Lebowski, and Scott Pilgrim vs. the World. It's pretty hard to go wrong with those flicks.
Comedies come and go, which is why it's important to stay glued to what's new on Netflix. If you're looking for laughs, these are the best comedies on Netflix right now.
Entertainment You're going to see a lot of Christmas movies on Hulu through the end of the year. 'Tis the season for the Huludays, after all. While we'll go over your Christmas options at a later date, this month's selections of the best movies on Hulu feature a new original film, Quiz Lady, as well as A Haunting in Venice, which recently finished its theatrical run. The other prominent new additions are Jumanji: Welcome to the Jungle and the comedy biopic Driven.
Need help keeping up with everything new on Hulu? Every month, we go over the greatest films that Hulu has to offer while keeping track of what's coming and going. That's why our update of the best movies on Hulu is always current. We're here to help you plan your next movie night.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
