Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix F1 Live Stream Stranger Things Season 5 Best New Movies Most Popular Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney+ UFC Live Stream Best Movies on Disney+ Home Entertainment Guides The best movies on Max right now By Guillermo Kurten , Blair Marnell and Rick Marshall Close Did you know that Max is one of the best mainstream platforms to stream movies? The streamer boasts an exceptional range of diversity in its library, ranging from modern hits to all-time classics alike. This impressive selection of movies spans a slew of genres that practically guarantees that any type of fan will find a handful of titles that will suit their tastes.
Considering how saturated the streaming market is with platforms cycling movies from streamer to streamer, variety becomes all the more important. Warner Bros. Discovery’s service thankfully offers that to an accessible degree, but if you find yourself overwhelmed, we’ve curated a guide on the best movies to stream on Max that’s updated every month.
In need of some more streaming recommendations? We also have guides to the best movies on Netflix , the best movies on Hulu , the best movies on Amazon Prime Video , and the best movies on Disney+ that are worth looking through.
Aliens 1986 Paddington 2 2017 Winter's Bone 2010 Rocky 1976 The Devil Wears Prada 2006 Blade Runner 2049 2017 Aliens (1986) new 137m Action, Thriller, Science Fiction Sigourney Weaver, Michael Biehn, Lance Henriksen James Cameron watch on max watch on max Not many film franchises have the benefit of changing directors with similarly lauded reputation in the industry, but Aliens certainly did. Picking up the baton from Ridley Scott’s trailblazing original, James Cameron takes the reign of this sequel, seeing the iconic sci-fi female lead Ellen Ripley (played by Sigourney Weaver) agree to investigate the source of a loss in communication with a human lunar colony at the site of the original movie.
Still regarded today as one of the greatest sci-fi movies ever made — and in general — Aliens was widely acclaimed for its blend of sci-fi, horror, and visceral action. Like with Scott’s film, this sophomore installment in a legacy series was anchored by another commanding performance by Weaver.
Read less The 50 best shows on Netflix in November 2023 The best movies and shows on Shudder right now (November 2023) The best Black movies on Netflix right now Paddington 2 (2017) new 104m Adventure, Comedy, Family Ben Whishaw, Sally Hawkins, Hugh Grant Paul King watch on max watch on max Director Paul King’s Paddington earned plaudits for being one of the best contemporary animated family comedies, and he follows through in the sequel.
Paddington 2 follows the titular bear (voiced by Passages ‘ Ben Whishaw) as he finds himself imprisoned after being framed for a burglary he didn’t commit.
That leaves his family (played by Hugh Bonneville, Sally Hawkins, Hugh Grant, Madeleine Harris, and Samuel Joslin) to set out and find the real culprit and free Paddington.
Paddington 2 achieved near-universal critical acclaim thanks to its equal parts spirited and charming cast, touching story, and clever sense of humor. The way the movie effortlessly appeals to any age range and demographic of audience gives the endearing production staying power.
Read less Winter's Bone (2010) new 101m Drama, Mystery Jennifer Lawrence, John Hawkes, Kevin Breznahan Debra Granik watch on max watch on max Before her mainstream Hollywood breakout with The Hunger Games , Jennifer Lawrence was already flexing her acting prowess with Winter’s Bone.
 Directed by accomplished indie director Debra Granik ( Leave No Trace , Down to the Bone ), this mystery drama sees poverty-stricken teenager Ree Dolly (played by Lawrence) go on a desperate mission to find her missing father to keep their family afloat.
On top of Lawrence’s exceptional Academy Award-nominated performance, Winter’s Bone was praised for balancing an engrossing and harrowing plot with poignant social commentary on economic, societal, and gender inequality as well as an underlying message of optimism.
Read less Rocky (1976) new 119m Drama, Romance Sylvester Stallone, Talia Shire, Burt Young John G. Avildsen watch on max watch on max One of the most iconic movies of the ’70s, director John Avildsen’s Rocky paved the way for a theatrical legacy. Starring Sylvester Stallone as up-and-coming boxer Rocky Balboa, audiences are treated to the young and unlikely upstart’s journey from poor club fighter dodging loan sharks to taking a shot at the heavyweight belt held by the legendary Apollo Creed.
Also written by Stallone, Rocky was groundbreaking for popularizing the “rags-to-riches” trope in inspiring dramas, as well as becoming a quintessential sports drama in film. Bolstered by a courageous performance by Stallone, swelling score, and striking cinematography, Rocky holds up well today and leaves a promising successor in the form of Michael B. Jordan’s Creed series.
Read less The Devil Wears Prada (2006) new 109m Comedy, Drama, Romance Anne Hathaway, Meryl Streep, Emily Blunt David Frankel watch on max watch on max Adapted from the novel of the same name by Lauren Weisberger, director David Frankel’s The Devil Wears Prada became a mid-2000s classic. The movie revolves around recent college graduate Andy Sachs (played by Anne Hathaway) as she lands a job in New York as prolific fashion magazine editor Miranda Priestly’s (played by Meryl Streep) co-assistant.
Effortlessly blending comedy, drama, and witty commentary on the ruthlessness of the fashion industry, The Devil Wears Prada is an incredibly entertaining romp. It earned Streep another feather in her cap with a Golden Globe award win, with Hathaway getting noteworthy praise as well.
Read less Blade Runner 2049 (2017) new 164m Science Fiction, Drama Ryan Gosling, Harrison Ford, Ana de Armas Denis Villeneuve watch on max watch on max Ridley Scott’s Blade Runner was ahead of its time , but earned deserved belated acclaim as the years passed. In a somewhat similar, if unfortunate, case, director Denis Villeneuve’s sequel Blade Runner 2049 was released to comparable critical praise, but it underwhelmed at the box office. Nonetheless, Blade Runner 2049 is another highlight of the esteemed director’s portfolio, with Ryan Gosling and Harrison Ford leading the charge.
The movie follows Gosling’s replicant blade runner K as he unravels a deep-rooted conspiracy that could overthrow the societal status quo. Complete with immaculate cinematography, powerful performances, and a tantalizingly slow-burn plot, Blade Runner 2049 is a modern cyberpunk master class.
Read less Flight (2012) new 138m Drama Denzel Washington, Don Cheadle, Kelly Reilly Robert Zemeckis watch on max watch on max Denzel Washington has been celebrated for several of his iconic performances, and his role in Flight deserves to be among them. Directed by Robert Zemeckis, Flight is a drama centered around Whip Whitaker (played by Washington), a pilot suffering from severe alcohol and drug addictions who has miraculously managed to go through his career with a clean record.
However, when a mechanical failure on one of his flights forces him to undertake an emergency crash landing, the investigation that follows begins to uexpose his addictive habits.
Flight conducts one of the best character profiles in Washington’s backlog, and it marks a triumphant comeback to the industry for director Zemeckis.
Read less Scream (1996) new 112m Crime, Horror, Mystery David Arquette, Neve Campbell, Courteney Cox Wes Craven watch on max watch on max The Scream franchise has recently enjoyed a resurgence thanks to the critical and commercial success of 2022’s Scream and 2023’s Scream VI.
That makes revisiting director Wes Craven’s 1996 original Scream even more relevant, as the cult classic film holds up well even today. In the otherwise unassuming town of Woodsboro, high school student Sidney Prescott (played by Neve Campbell) and her friends find themselves systematically hunted by the masked serial killer dubbed Ghostface.
The movie was praised for the performances of its well-rounded cast — especially Campbell, Courteney Cox, and David Arquette — as well as its unapologetically violent action sequences.
Scream is responsible for rejuvenating the overarching horror genre, as well as the slasher subgenre that it’s most famous for.
Read less Beetlejuice (1988) new 92m Fantasy, Comedy Alec Baldwin, Geena Davis, Jeffrey Jones Tim Burton watch on max watch on max An ’80s classic, Beetlejuice is still beloved today as a perennial Halloween movie. Directed by Tim Burton, this hybrid fantasy/horror/comedy sees a deceased couple ( Adam and Barbara Maitland) return to haunt their home as ghosts, but they’re compelled to call on the services of the titular bio-exorcist (played by Michael Keaton) to scare off the new owners.
Featuring one of Keaton’s most notable roles, Beetlejuice was praised for its delightfully bizarre premise and amalgam of genres, all bolstered by Burton’s unmistakable mind for direction and creativity.
Read less It (2017) new 135m Horror, Fantasy Jaeden Martell, Sophia Lillis, Jack Dylan Grazer Andy Muschietti watch on max watch on max One of Stephen King’s best movie adaptations , director Andy Muschietti’s ( The Flash ) It is a thrilling cinematic interpretation of the classic novel. The 2017 film follows a string of disturbing disappearances, seven children known as The Losers’ Club face the terror of the titular otherworldly creature — as well as their personal demons.
Bolstered by an impressive young cast and the equal parts commanding and bone-chilling performance by Bill Skarsgård as the titular monster, It is a superb supernatural horror movie and arguably one of the best adaptations of Stephen King’s books.
Read less Doctor Sleep (2019) new 152m Horror, Thriller, Fantasy Ewan McGregor, Kyliegh Curran, Rebecca Ferguson Mike Flanagan watch on max watch on max Another Stephen King adaptation, director Mike Flanagan’s Doctor Sleep is perhaps one of the more underrated movies of 2019. The film received a positive critical reception upon release, but it had an underwhelming run at the box office. Nonetheless, Doctor Sleep is a riveting supernatural horror story and a satisfying sequel to the critically acclaimed The Shining.
Set decades after the events of the latter, Doctor Sleep revolves around a grown Dan Torrance (played by Ewan McGregor), a man struggling with alcoholism who wields psychic abilities, after he’s compelled back to the hotel that traumatized him and his family. Buoyed by a strong performances by McGregor and Rebecca Ferguson as antagonist and cult leader Rose the Hat, Doctor Sleep is a suitably foreboding horror-thriller.
Read less Gangs of New York (2002) new 168m Drama, History, Crime Leonardo DiCaprio, Daniel Day-Lewis, Cameron Diaz Martin Scorsese watch on max watch on max Read less Dawn of the Planet of the Apes (2014) new 130m Science Fiction, Action, Drama, Thriller Andy Serkis, Jason Clarke, Gary Oldman Matt Reeves watch on max watch on max Read less The Bourne Ultimatum (2007) new 115m Action, Drama, Mystery, Thriller Matt Damon, Julia Stiles, David Strathairn Paul Greengrass watch on max watch on max Read less Avatar: The Way of Water (2022) new 192m Science Fiction, Adventure, Action Sam Worthington, Zoe Saldaña, Sigourney Weaver James Cameron watch on max watch on max Read less Pulp Fiction (1994) new 154m Thriller, Crime John Travolta, Samuel L. Jackson, Uma Thurman Quentin Tarantino watch on max watch on max Read less Moonlight (2016) new 111m Drama Trevante Rhodes, André Holland, Janelle Monáe Barry Jenkins watch on max watch on max Read less The Lego Batman Movie (2017) new 104m Animation, Action, Comedy, Family Will Arnett, Zach Galifianakis, Michael Cera Chris McKay watch on max watch on max Read less The Lord of the Rings: The Fellowship of the Ring (2001) new 179m Adventure, Fantasy, Action Elijah Wood, Ian McKellen, Liv Tyler Peter Jackson watch on max watch on max Read less Parasite (2019) new 133m Comedy, Thriller, Drama Song Kang-ho, Lee Sun-kyun, Cho Yeo-jeong Bong Joon-ho watch on max watch on max Director Bong Joon-ho’s Parasite was a breakout hit in 2019, earning an Academy Award for Best Picture. The Korean dark comedy/thriller hybrid focuses on the desperate exploits of a poor family that schemes their way into working for a wealthy family.
The family poses as qualified for the tasks at hand, but the more they involve themselves in the wealthy Park family’s lives, the deeper they get tangled in a shocking incident.
Parasite earned widespread critical acclaim for its smart humor combined with equally poignant social commentary on class dynamics.
Read less The Lord of the Rings: The Return of the King (2003) 201m Adventure, Fantasy, Action Elijah Wood, Ian McKellen, Liv Tyler Peter Jackson watch on max watch on max Cementing the series’ status as one of the most outstanding film trilogies ever made, The Lord of the Rings: The Return of the King is a triumphant finish for Peter Jackson’s tenure in Middle-earth. The film continues with Bilbo Baggins (Elijah Wood) and Samwise Gamgee (Sean Astin) journeying to destroy the One Ring in the fires of Mount Doom.
Meanwhile, the remaining heroes, including Gandalf (Ian McKellen), Aragorn (Viggo Mortensen), and Legolas (Orlando Bloom), amass an army to battle with Sauron. Winning an astonishing 11 Academy Awards out of 11 nominations, The Return of the King was emphatically acclaimed for its faithfulness to Tolkien’s source material, stunning visuals, and powerfully emotional payoff.
Read less Batman: Mask of the Phantasm (1993) 76m Action, Animation, Crime, Mystery Kevin Conroy, Dana Delany, Hart Bochner Bruce Timm, Eric Radomski watch on max watch on max Read less Hereditary (2018) new 128m Horror, Mystery, Thriller Toni Collette, Alex Wolff, Milly Shapiro Ari Aster watch on max watch on max A24 studio has made itself one of the biggest names in the indie film scene, with director Ari Aster providing it with some of the best horror movies in recent years. Aster is a master of building dread through psychological and body horror, and Hereditary is a terrifyingly effective showcase of both.
It stars the likes of Toni Collette and Alex Wolff as part of a family that finds itself haunted by an ominous presence after the death of their mysterious grandmother. Collette was an expected standout, but the whole cast put up excellent performances in a genuinely foreboding experience, with its striking cinematography adding to the tension.
Read less I Love You, Man (2009) 105m Comedy, Romance Paul Rudd, Jason Segel, Rashida Jones John Hamburg watch on max watch on max Paul Rudd has been charming audiences for years now, and I Love You, Man is one of the more affectionately regarded rom-coms from the 2000s.
Starring alongside the equally appealing Jason Segal and Rashida Jones, this goofball romantic comedy follows Rudd’s leading man in an awkward three-person dynamic. When Peter Klaven (Rudd) finds himself in search of a friend to be the best man at his wedding with Zooey Rice (Jones), he soon picks Sydney Fife (Segal). But things begin to get awkward as Peter’s newfound best friend starts creating tension in his relationship with Zooey.
Read less The Silence of the Lambs (1991) 119m Crime, Drama, Thriller Jodie Foster, Anthony Hopkins, Scott Glenn Jonathan Demme watch on max watch on max Read less The Terminator (1984) 108m Action, Thriller, Science Fiction Arnold Schwarzenegger, Michael Biehn, Linda Hamilton James Cameron watch on max watch on max Read less The Dark Knight Rises (2012) 165m Action, Crime, Drama, Thriller Christian Bale, Michael Caine, Gary Oldman Christopher Nolan watch on max watch on max Read less The Dark Knight (2008) 152m Drama, Action, Crime, Thriller Christian Bale, Heath Ledger, Michael Caine Christopher Nolan watch on max watch on max Read less The Lord of the Rings: The Two Towers (2002) 179m Adventure, Fantasy, Action Elijah Wood, Ian McKellen, Liv Tyler Peter Jackson watch on max watch on max Read less Batman Begins (2005) 140m Action, Crime, Drama Christian Bale, Michael Caine, Liam Neeson Christopher Nolan watch on max watch on max Read less The Banshees of Inisherin (2022) r 114m Drama, Comedy Colin Farrell, Brendan Gleeson, Kerry Condon Martin McDonagh watch on max watch on max Read less Barbarian (2022) r 103m Horror, Mystery, Thriller Georgina Campbell, Bill Skarsgård, Justin Long Zach Cregger watch on max watch on max Read less The Witch (2015) r 92m Horror, Mystery, Drama, Fantasy Anya Taylor-Joy, Ralph Ineson, Kate Dickie Robert Eggers watch on max watch on max The Witch was Anya Taylor-Joy’s first feature film, and it made her a star. In the early 1600s, Thomasin (Anya Taylor-Joy) is the eldest daughter in a family of Puritans led by her parents, William (Ralph Ineson) and Katherine (Kate Dickie). After the family is banished by their local religious sect, Thomasin is horrified when her infant brother is stolen out from under her nose. Unbeknownst to the family, there really is a witch (Bathsheba Garnett) in the woods, and she has a taste for the young. Through her hardships, Thomasin discovers that she also has powers of her own, which only makes things scarier.
Read less Elvis (2022) pg-13 159m Music, Drama, History Austin Butler, Tom Hanks, Richard Roxburgh Baz Luhrmann watch on max watch on max Read less The Batman (2022) pg-13 176m Crime, Mystery, Thriller Robert Pattinson, Zoë Kravitz, Paul Dano Matt Reeves watch on max watch on max Read less Dune (2021) 155m Science Fiction, Adventure Timothée Chalamet, Rebecca Ferguson, Oscar Isaac Denis Villeneuve watch on max watch on max Read less Best movies on Netflix Best Movies on Hulu Best movies on Amazon Prime Best movies on Disney+ Editors' Recommendations The 50 best movies on Netflix right now (November 2023) The best Hulu original series right now The 50 best anime on Hulu right now The 10 most popular movies on Netflix right now The best feel-good movies on Netflix right now Best Products Streaming Services Movie images and data from: Entertainment It's not hard to find a great comedy movie on Netflix. Unlike some other genres like sci-fi and fantasy, Netflix keeps its lineup of comedies well-stocked with some recent box-office hits, like Jennifer Lawrence's No Hard Feelings, as well as classic titles on loan from other studios and a lot of original films. This month's new additions include the first theatrical adaptation of The Addams Family, The Big Lebowski, and Scott Pilgrim vs. the World. It's pretty hard to go wrong with those flicks.
Comedies come and go, which is why it's important to stay glued to what's new on Netflix. If you're looking for laughs, these are the best comedies on Netflix right now.
Entertainment You're going to see a lot of Christmas movies on Hulu through the end of the year. 'Tis the season for the Huludays, after all. While we'll go over your Christmas options at a later date, this month's selections of the best movies on Hulu feature a new original film, Quiz Lady, as well as A Haunting in Venice, which recently finished its theatrical run. The other prominent new additions are Jumanji: Welcome to the Jungle and the comedy biopic Driven.
Need help keeping up with everything new on Hulu? Every month, we go over the greatest films that Hulu has to offer while keeping track of what's coming and going. That's why our update of the best movies on Hulu is always current. We're here to help you plan your next movie night.
Entertainment Michael Fassbender in The Killer Netflix / Netflix Halloween is gone, Christmas movies are coming around the corner, but the best new movies to stream on Netflix, Hulu, Prime Video, Max (HBO), and other services haven't fully made the switch to Christmas. There are some high-quality additions each week, though, including some Oscar bait. We're keeping track of all of it in this weekly roundup, so you always have something new to watch.
We also have guides to the best movies on Netflix, the best movies on Hulu, the best movies on Amazon Prime Video, and the best movies on HBO.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
