Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix F1 Live Stream Stranger Things Season 5 Best New Movies Most Popular Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney+ UFC Live Stream Best Movies on Disney+ Home Entertainment Reviews Bones and All review: A cannibal lovers movie with no heart By Alex Welch Close Taylor Russell's soulful lead performance Michael Stuhlbarg and Mark Rylance's scene-stealing supporting turns Arseni Khachaturan's stunning cinematography An overly leisurely pace A climax that misses the mark Clunky dialogue throughout Bones and All is a curiously twangy, blood-stained addition to the canon of American road movies. The film, which was shot on location in Ohio, reunites director Luca Guadagnino with his Call Me By Your Name star, Timothée Chalamet, on an adventure that takes the latter’s young, conflicted character across multiple midwestern states. Joining them on the trip is Taylor Russell, a long-promising young star who is, at long last, given the spotlight she deserves in Bones and All , which casts her and Chalamet as a pair of nomadic cannibals struggling to find a place in a world populated by humans who, understandably, have little interest in being eaten.
In many ways, Bones and All feels like an inevitable mixture of the romance and horror genres that Guadagnino has played around with in the past. Its achingly romantic story feels akin to the forbidden romance the Italian director explored in Call Me By Your Name , while its instances of blood-soaked violence inevitably call to mind the moments of body horror present in Guadagnino’s 2018 reimagining of Suspiria.
 However, despite all its technically impressive parts, there’s something missing in Bones and All , a film that feels surprisingly tame given the contents of its story.
Yannis Drakoulidis/Metro Goldwyn Mayer Pictures Based on a 2015 novel by Camille DeAngelis, Bones and All follows Maren Yearly (Russell), a young girl whose cannibal urges eventually force her to set out on her own when she turns 18. While on a journey to find her absent mother, Maren crosses paths with Lee (Chalamet), a fellow cannibal who has grown used to the nomadic lifestyle for similar, if slightly more brutal, reasons as Maren. The two quickly grow close, committing to a romance that’s based as much on understanding as it is on Maren and Lee’s shared hunger.
7 biggest horror movie bombs of all time, ranked by adjusted box office losses All the Mission: Impossible movies, ranked from worst to best Meet Maren and Lee in new featurettes for Bones and All Despite Maren’s desire to find her mother, Bones and All moves at a leisurely pace that makes its connection and debt to the great American road movies of the past undeniably clear.
Atticus Ross and Trent Reznor’s uncharacteristically acoustic, plucking score only further drives home Bones and All ’s connection to films like Paris, Texas , which relies just as heavily on Ry Cooder’s folk music to set its warm, aching mood as it does on Robby Müller’s customarily resplendent cinematography. To the film’s credit, Bones and All may even be the most visually stunning exploration of rural America since Müller and director Wim Wenders made their fateful trip to the states back in 1984.
Guadagnino and cinematographer Arseni Khachaturan not only fill Bones and All with gorgeous, sun-drenched frames but also highlight the mundanity of rural American architecture and life. All the film’s houses seem to creak and shudder beneath the weight of their shoddy construction, and Guadagnino effectively juxtaposes the haunted atmosphere of Bones and All ’s old houses, factories, and mental hospitals with the freedom offered by America’s midwestern plains.
In a film that’s so often about the search for freedom and comfort, it’s no mistake that Bones and All frequently returns to images of its two protagonists sitting totally relaxed together amid the wide expansiveness of Ohio’s seemingly endless fields.
Yannis Drakoulidis/Metro Goldwyn Mayer Pictures What Bones and All has in its gorgeous textures and compositions, it ultimately lacks in intensity. The film’s script is meandering and listless, which might not be an issue were it not for the tragically brutal direction that Bones and All ultimately takes. Tonally and structurally, Guadagnino tries to split the difference between an American road movie, YA romance, and body horror film, but the film often presents itself and its story in such a nonchalant, unassuming fashion that it ends up coming across as emotionally flat.
Part of that is due to the fact that Chalamet feels woefully miscast as Lee. The actor’s previous collaboration with Guadagnino established him as a performer capable of portraying loneliness and yearning in a tender way, but both he and his director are unable to bring the same warmth and compelling internal conflict to Lee. That fact, combined with Chalamet’s inability to consistently sell Bones and All ’s occasionally clunky dialogue, leaves his performance feeling strangely flat and one-note.
Russell, for her part, fares far better. As Maren, the actress brings a youthful curiosity and heartfelt warmth that both the film and its central love story desperately needs.
Guadagnino, whether wisely or not, surrounds Russell and Chalamet with performers who go far bigger and far nastier than they do. Chief among the film’s supporting players is Mark Rylance, whose turn as a socially awkward cannibal named Sully alternates between a kind of pathetic neediness and terrifying obsessiveness. Michael Stuhlbarg, meanwhile, nearly steals the entire film in a scene that gives him the chance to show up wearing nothing but denim overalls and deliver a monologue about the pleasures of devouring another human being while lit by the haunting amber light of a nearby bonfire.
It’s in Stuhlbarg’s one scene that Bones and All is at its most dangerous and perverse, and that’s why it lingers so much longer than the rest of the film, which despite all of its moments of flesh-tearing cannibalism, lacks any real bite.
Bones and All is playing in theaters now.
Editors' Recommendations Don’t miss these 6 fall 2023 movies that are flying under the radar Where to watch all The Expendables movies Where to watch all the Indiana Jones movies and TV series Slash/Back review: The kids are all right (especially when fighting aliens) Rosaline review: Kaitlyn Dever lifts up Hulu’s Romeo and Juliet rom-com riff Product Reviews Entertainment With its lush sets and perpetually probing camera, Decision to Leave looks and moves like any other Park Chan-wook film, but it reverberates with the same untempered passion present in Golden Age noirs like In a Lonely Place and Double Indemnity. Unlike those two films, though, which center their stories around a hot-tempered screenwriter and naïve insurance salesman, respectively, Decision to Leave follows another common noir archetype: the lovelorn detective (played here by Park Hae-il).
In the film’s opening moments, Hae-jun, the detective in question, lands a case involving the mysterious death of a recreational rock climber. The case, in typical noir fashion, leads to Hae-jun crossing paths with Seo-rae (a spellbinding Tang Wei), his victim’s gorgeous but eccentric widow. Perturbed by how disinterested she is in unpacking her abusive husband’s death, Hae-jun begins to tail and spy on Seo-rae, unaware that doing so will only further intensify his attraction to her. As far as noir plots go, this is about as familiar as it gets. With its nods to Hitchcock and lightly self-aware attitude, Decision to Leave makes it clear that it doesn’t mind treading the same narrative terrain as so many of the noir classics that have come before it, either.
Entertainment Amsterdam could have been forgiven for being a lot of things, but dull is not one of them. The new film from writer-director David O. Russell boasts one of the most impressive ensemble casts of the year and is photographed by Emmanuel Lubezki, one of Hollywood’s premier cinematographers. Beyond that, its kooky premise and even wackier cast of characters open the door for Amsterdam to be the kind of screwball murder mystery that O. Russell, at the very least, seems uniquely well-equipped to make.
Instead, Amsterdam is a disaster of the highest order. It’s a film made up of so many disparate, incongruent parts that it becomes clear very early on in its 134-minute runtime that no one involved — O. Russell most of all — really knew what it is they were making. It is a misfire of epic proportions, a comedic conspiracy thriller that is written like a haphazard screwball comedy but paced like a meandering detective drama. Every element seems to be at odds with another, resulting in a film that is rarely funny but consistently irritating.
Entertainment “Had she said no, the film would never have seen the light of day,” director Todd Field said in a statement about his ambitious new drama, Tár. He was, of course, talking about the film’s star, Cate Blanchett, whose reputation as one of Hollywood’s greatest living actresses certainly precedes her at this point. Despite that fact, it would be easy to initially shrug off Field’s comment as nothing more than a pandering or superficial remark. After all, what director wouldn’t say that about the lead star of their film, especially someone of Blanchett’s caliber? Having seen Tár, though, the truth of Field’s comment is undeniably clear. In order for it to cast any kind of spell, Tár requires a performer with Blanchett’s charismatic, towering presence. It demands someone who can not only disappear into a character, but who can do so and still be able to command every scene partner who has the misfortune of being pitted against her. Blanchett does that and more in Tár.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
