Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix F1 Live Stream Stranger Things Season 5 Best New Movies Most Popular Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney+ UFC Live Stream Best Movies on Disney+ Home Entertainment Reviews Creed III review: A flawed but entertaining sequel By Alex Welch Close Jonathan Majors' searing supporting performance Michael B. Jordan's passionate, if imperfect direction Kramer Morgenthau's warm, sun-soaked cinematography Keenan Coogler and Zach Baylin's uneven screenplay An overlong, occasionally languid second act Creed III heralds the beginning of a new era for the Rocky spin-off franchise.
The film, which marks the directorial debut of franchise star Michael B. Jordan, is designed to exist free of the Rocky series’ shadow in a way that not even 2015’s Creed and 2018’s Creed III do. In order to achieve that separation, Jordan and screenwriters Keenan Coogler and Zach Baylin not only set the majority in Creed III in the city of Los Angeles, but they also cut Sylvester Stallone’s Rocky Balboa off from the franchise’s action. In Creed III , Stallone’s longtime screen hero is mentioned only once and his relationship with Jordan’s Adonis Creed is never directly acknowledged at any point throughout the film’s 116-minute runtime.
Creed 3 and the anime that inspired it Michael B. Jordan faces new challenge as a director in behind-the-scenes look at Creed III Clerks III review, or how Kevin Smith made me cry Behind the camera, Jordan attempts to introduce a new, anime-inspired visual style in Creed III , one that relies on slow-motion close-ups and moments of fantasy as opposed to the gritty but balletic style that writer-director Ryan Coogler established eight years ago. However, while Jordan’s attempt to redefine the conventional visual language of boxing movies is certainly admirable, it isn’t always totally effective. The same can be said for Creed III , which attempts to chart a new path for itself by cutting out certain aspects of its predecessors while sticking to the same formula.
Eli Ade/MGM Creed III is, much like Creed II , haunted by the past. The film’s opening sequence follows a young Adonis Creed (Alex Henderson) as he and his best friend, Damian “Dame” Anderson (Spence Duane Moore II), journey through a night that will forever change Dame’s life for the worse. Twenty years later, Creed III finds Jordan’s adult Adonis enjoying an early retirement with his deaf daughter, Amara (Mila Davis-Kent), and his music producer wife, Bianca (Tessa Thompson). In the aftermath of his boxing career, Adonis has begun to spend most of his days training new boxers at the LA gym he manages with Tony “Little Duke” Evers (Wood Harris).
Despite how far its protagonist has come, Creed III frequently returns to the images from its prologue, especially after Jordan’s adult Adonis finds himself shaken by the return of Dame, who is played as an adult by Ant-Man and the Wasp: Quantumania and Devotion star, Jonathan Majors. Having just finished an 18-year prison stint, Majors’ Dame, a once-promising boxer, asks Jordan’s Adonis for a shot at becoming champion. When Dame gets exactly that, his behavior both in and out of the ring sets him and Adonis on an inevitable path toward a brutal fight of their own.
Creed III , in other words, sticks to the same basic beats as so many of the boxing movies that have come before it. While Jordan, Coogler, and Baylin all attempt to inject new ideas into the Creed franchise’s existing themes of legacy and regret as well, there are moments when the film, nonetheless, feels stubbornly stuck to its own narrative tracks. The film’s pace suffers a bit as a result, especially during its second act, which is surprisingly meditative but too long. Fortunately, Creed III ’s pace and energy always pick back up whenever Majors and Jordan are on-screen together.
Eli Ade/MGM The pair’s first scene, which takes place over a modest diner meal, is comprised mostly of close-ups that allow both Majors and Jordan to communicate their characters’ conflicting emotions in ways their words do not. Majors, in particular, shines in these moments. The actor, who has become one of Hollywood’s most in-demand talents within the span of just a few short years, is able to use his eyes and body language to communicate the shades of anger, sorrow, loneliness, and desperation that are always at war within his character. When Dame tells Adonis that “the clock is ticking” for him, it’s the small quiver in Majors’ voice that sells it as both a statement of fact and a desperate plea.
Opposite him, Jordan is as capable as ever at portraying Adonis’ inability to truly open up about his emotions. In Creed III , the character’s unwillingness to be vulnerable becomes a point of contention between him and Bianca after their daughter gets into a fight at school. Bianca rightly sees Amara’s instinct to fight rather than process her emotions as something that needs to be addressed, but Adonis argues that sometimes “a punch in the face” really is the only solution to a problem. The film’s attempts to grapple with Adonis’ reliance on violence add an interesting shade of modernity to Creed III ’s traditional structure, but the movie doesn’t have the time to truly explore the impact that Adonis’ way of life has on both his daughter and wife.
Eli Ade/MGM The film’s argument that violence isn’t always the answer is also undercut by the fact that its climax inevitably revolves around Adonis and Dame punching the living daylights out of each other. Jordan doesn’t shy away from just how emotionally destructive Dame and Adonis’ boxing match is, though. The director inserts close-ups throughout the fight that, thanks to his and Majors’ emotional range, effectively communicate the feelings of shame, rage, and helplessness that both of their characters are forced to confront every round.
It’s in Creed III ’s climactic match that Jordan also leans all the way into his anime influences. At times, the film not only reimagines Adonis and Dame’s fight as taking place in an empty, fog-covered arena, but in one audacious creative swing, Jordan also uses visual effects to turn the ring into a literal prison cell. Unfortunately, while the boldness of Jordan’s choices is to be admired, not all of his visual swings truly connect. The director is ultimately unable to recapture the same wide-angle gracefulness that Ryan Coogler skillfully brought to Creed.
 Instead, the new film’s fight sequences rely on far more cuts and insert shots, which do occasionally dull their impact.
Jordan’s decision to visualize the split-second moments when boxers catch the gaps in their opponents’ defenses, however, feels like the kind of inspired directorial choice that will likely be copied by other directors in the years to come. Even in the moments of visual invention that don’t totally work, there’s also a passion behind Jordan’s direction that fills Creed III with an energy that is usually absent by the time most franchises reach their third installment. Together, Jordan and Majors ensure that Creed III offers audiences an enjoyable — if not necessarily knockout — time at the theater.
Creed III is now playing in theaters.
Editors' Recommendations Creed 3’s ending explained Creed III final trailer teases explosive fight between Adonis and Damian Michael B. Jordan faces toughest challenge yet in first trailer for Creed III Glass Onion review: a deviously intricate Knives Out sequel Nope review: Jordan Peele’s intelligent sci-fi horror delivers Product Reviews Entertainment Not every show can get weirder with each consecutive season and still retain everything that makes it wonderful. Netflix series The Umbrella Academy is one such show, and it proves it with a fantastic third season that raises its already high bar for strange-but-satisfying storytelling.
Created by Steve Blackman and based on the comic book series of the same name by Gerard Way and Gabriel Bá, The Umbrella Academy chronicles the adventures of a dysfunctional family of adopted siblings with superhuman abilities. Following their time-twisting adventures in the show's second season, the third season of The Umbrella Academy has the family returning to the present, only to discover that their actions in the past dramatically changed the world they left behind.
Entertainment In the busy world of Lost Illusions, corruption reigns supreme. Cities are cesspools of crime and debauchery. Fake news circulates like a virus, destroying lives and chipping away at the fragile democratic state. The high cost of living makes everyone scramble for their daily bread, sacrificing whatever ideals they have left just to survive. Nothing is for free, and everything, and everyone, has a price.
No, this isn't a movie about the state of things in 2022, but rather an adaptation of Honoré de Balzac's 19th-century novel that is just as relevant today as it was back then. That's due, of course, to Balzac's genius, but also to director Xavier Giannoli, who has made one of the year's best movies by infusing an urgency to what could have been a dreary, stuffy affair. This film moves, and unlike most bloated costume pics, it's interested in chronicling the gradual rot of the men and women beneath the heavy period makeup and fancy clothing.
A hero's rise and fall Entertainment The HBO Max series Tokyo Vice is a project that has been in the works for nearly a decade, initially announced as a film featuring Harry Potter franchise star Daniel Radcliffe, then later repositioned as a television series with Heat director Michael Mann attached and Baby Driver actor Ansel Elgort in the lead role. It finally arrives on April 7 after several years of on-and-off production due to the pandemic and the complicated logistics of international filming.
While such long development and production periods can often be a sign of trouble, anyone who's been looking forward to the series can rest easy: The first five episodes suggest that the extra time involved in bringing it to the screen was well spent.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
