Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix F1 Live Stream Stranger Things Season 5 Best New Movies Most Popular Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney+ UFC Live Stream Best Movies on Disney+ Home Entertainment Reviews Yipee-ki-yay, Santa: Why is Die Hard a Christmas classic? By David Caballero Close ‘Tis the season of giving. ‘Tis the season of joy, eggnog, and black-and-white movies with uplifting messages. ‘Tis the season of Rudolph, carols, holy nights, and yippee-ki-yay, mother … yes! ‘Tis the season of the most unexpectedly heartwarming and comforting Christmas movie of all time : Die Hard.
 Every year, we hear the same discourse about Die Hard.
 Is it a Christmas movie? Is it not? Everyone has an opinion. Even Bruce Willis weighed in on the debate during his profane and matter-of-fact monologue at his 2018 Comedy Central Roast.
How Bruce Willis saved Christmas The perfect feel-good movie We need a little Die Hard Yes, the conversation surrounding Die Hard is intense, with no side willing to give in. Those who defend its action masterpiece status seem to view the Christmas comparison as insulting; Christmas movies are safe and traditional, things Die Hard isn’t.
On the other hand, the Christmas apologists often point out the obvious: it’s a movie that happens on Christmas Eve, hence, a Christmas movie.
 That argument is somewhat absurd; it’s the year of our Lord 2022, and we can all agree that Die Hard ‘s significance goes beyond its basic premise. It is now a modern classic with a reputation that far surpasses its initial purpose. And while it might not fit our idea of a cozy Christmas movie, Die Hard has a place in our December calendar, and it’s not hard to see why.
Where to watch How the Grinch Stole Christmas (both versions) The best Christmas movies on Disney+ right now Where to watch The Nightmare Before Christmas How Bruce Willis saved Christmas 20th Century Studios / 20th Century Studios Like the all-time classics of cinema, Die Hard now has a life of its own, and boxing it to fit some tired stereotype of what it should look like helps no one, especially when its initial success came from how unlike anything that came before it was. In truth, Die Hard is one of cinema’s best feel-good movies, a cheery triumph disguised as a tough action piece. Yes, it has the over-the-top action and the thrills, but it also has something few action movies have: heart. It has heart to spare, and it’s all thanks to the leading man at its center.
Bruce Willis has an impressive filmography many actors would kill for, but Die Hard remains arguably his most recognizable project. It made him a household name and launched his leading man career. The film also redefined the concept of the leading action man and cemented Willis as the ultimate everyday hero that could single-handedly save the say. Willis gives Die Hard a spark of energy and charm no other actor could have. Unlike Schwarzenegger or Stallone, Willis is not a massive wall of throbbing muscles tearing through enemy lines with brute force. His McClane is more down-to-Earth, relatable even, the embodiment of an ordinary man in an extraordinary world.
It’s this warmth that Willis brings to the table that makes Die Hard more than the average action vehicle. John McClane would’ve been one-note and maybe even boring in less capable hands. But Willis is a spitfire, an energetic and unstoppable tornado of wit and charm that never lets the mood go down. His McClane is tough but surprisingly delightful, even when killing bad guys. Especially when killing bad guys. And you need that charm because Die Hard is all about doing the right thing.
If we think of our favorite Christmas movies, we can see recurring themes — kindness, selflessness, family, empathy. All these are present in Die Hard more than in any other action film. McClane is a family man on a righteous quest, risking his life to protect others. It’s a tale as old as time, as old as the first tale, and audiences can see through the spectacle into the film’s true message. The right actor was necessary to convey this everyday excellence, and Willis came through. In his hands, McClane is the ideal hero, not because of what he does but because of why he does it.
The perfect feel-good movie Image used with permission by copyright holder Feel-good movies come in all shapes and sizes. Some are rom-coms , some are family adventures, and some even spend most of their duration as hardcore dramas. But the ending is always uplifting, inspiring, a conclusion powerful enough to renew our faith in humanity. In a sense, most action films are feel-good movies; they all end in a cathartic explosion, be it in the form of righteous vengeance or cosmic justice. And who doesn’t cheer when Bruce Willis shoots a bad guy? Who doesn’t smile when Alan Rickman’s evil Hans Gruber, Die Hard ‘s answer to Mr. Potter — the irony is not lost on anyone — gets his punishment or when McClane shares a knowing smile with Sargeant Powell? Yes, Die Hard is all about those warm and fuzzy feelings. So what if they come from German radicals dying on Christmas Eve? Fuzzy feelings are fuzzy feelings! And on Christmas, all we want is to feel something. Gloom and doom have no place in our Christmas watchlist — there’s enough of that in the world already.
Christmas movies are a genre in and of itself and are easily recognizable. There are also movies we watch during Christmas, and they don’t necessarily have a tree with presents. For a film to succeed as Christmas entertainment, it needs to send the right message; it’s about the content, not the setting. Sure, snow and blankets help, but Christmas is not about the wrapping. Not only about it, anyway.
Die Hard is a perfect Christmas present. It has a large red bow that makes it instantly pop out among the pile of shining boxes under the tree. However, like the best Christmas gifts, it’s what’s inside that counts.
We need a little Die Hard Image used with permission by copyright holder I think it’s safe to say Die Hard is not a Christmas movie. For starters, it came out in July , not December, meaning it was never trying to capture the holiday audience. Secondly, Christmas is only the background, a framing device instead of an element vital to the plot. And while it features many feel-good elements, they are in service of its genre rather than an attempt to capture the well-known Christmas cheer. And yet, it’s undeniable that Die Hard is a Christmas classic, which is arguably more important. Although these two concepts sound similar, I don’t think they are, and Die Hard is the perfect example. Bruce was right; it’s not a Christmas movie. But that won’t stop anyone from gathering around a cozy fire and watching it on Christmas Day. Some films surpass their initial intent and become more than they intended.
Die Hard is violent, irreverent, profane, and thrilling, which aren’t necessarily things commonly associated with the most wonderful time of the year.
And yet we need a little Die Hard in our holiday season. Who wants everything to be white, especially when a little red is crucial for a perfect Christmas? So is Die Hard a Christmas movie? Basically, who cares? We are talking about classics here, and only a few beat out John McClane. So grab a blanket and a cup of hot cocoa. It’s Die Hard time! Find out where to stream Die Hard here.
Editors' Recommendations Wait, is Bruce Willis’ Die Hard character in Michael Bay’s World War II epic Pearl Harbor or not? Where to watch It’s a Wonderful Life Where to watch Scrooged Where to watch A Charlie Brown Christmas Where to watch Dolly Parton’s Mountain Magic Christmas Entertainment America has many Christmas traditions: drinking eggnog that may or may not be spiked with alcohol, singing outdated carols to random strangers, avoiding weird relatives during dinner, and listening to Mariah Carey endlessly proclaim that all she wants for Christmas is you. But it wouldn't be the holidays without at least one viewing -- and usually many more than that -- of A Christmas Story, the nostalgic 1983 movie that introduced the world to Ralphie Parker, eating soap as a form of punishment, and the immortal phrase, "You'll shoot your eye out, kid." Almost 40 years later, the classic film is still a holiday staple, one that signals that Christmas is almost here...as well as all those presents waiting to be unwrapped under the tree. A Christmas Story is a movie that unites all generations and is always available to watch just as the jingle bells start up and the credit cards get ready to reach their limit.
Where can you watch A Christmas Story? Entertainment Yippee-ki-yay! If you're a fan of '80s action movies, then the phrase will instantly remind you of Die Hard. The 1988 action thriller stars Bruce Willis as John McClane, an NYPD cop who finds himself in the middle of a terrorist scheme at Nakatomi Plaza. While visiting his wife at a Christmas party, McClane meets Hans Gruber (Alan Rickman), the highly-intelligent leader of the terrorists. It's a cat-and-mouse game between McClane and Gruber as the hardened cop tries to thwart the terrorist's plans and save his wife.
Predominantly known for television roles until this point, Willis catapulted into superstardom from the success of Die Hard. The film spawned four sequels and made Willis one of the most bankable action stars for the next 15 years. Though we won't delve into the "is Die Hard a Christmas movie" debate (it is), we will tell you where to watch this action thriller during the holiday season.
Where is it streaming? Entertainment Christmas is a beloved holiday for many reasons. It’s full of cookies, presents, and even Mariah Carey. However, there is also an ever-growing selection of movies centered around Christmas. While many of these films are available on streaming services that you have to pay to use, the video-sharing platform YouTube features various Christmas movies that you can watch without having to pay for a subscription. Ads will appear during the films, but that's a fair tradeoff to watch quality films. And if you're looking to ring in the holidays early, here are some Christmas movies that you can watch for free on YouTube.
A Gift Wrapped Christmas (2015) Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
