Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix F1 Live Stream Stranger Things Season 5 Best New Movies Most Popular Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney+ UFC Live Stream Best Movies on Disney+ Home Entertainment Guides Everything you need to know about Dune: Part Two By Dan Girolamo Close Frank Herbert’s 1965 novel Dune is considered one of the most important and influential sci-fi works of all time. If you love Star Wars, there is no galaxy far, far away without Dune.
 However, the 1984 feature film adaptation by David Lynch ( Mulholland Drive ) flopped critically and commercially, tainting the public perception of Dune in the media. Despite multiple television series in the early 2000s, it was not until 2021’s Dune that the novel received a proper and worthy adaptation.
When does Dune: Part Two come out? What is Dune: Part Two about? Who is in the cast of Dune: Part Two? Is there a trailer for Dune: Part Two? Can you stream Dune: Part Two? Will there be a sequel to Dune: Part Two? Is there a poster for Dune: Part Two? Directed by Denis Villeneuve ( Arrival ), Dune stars Timothée Chalamet ( Call Me by Your Name ) as Paul Atreides, the heir to the House Atreides on the planet, Caladan. Paul’s father and ruler of Caladan, Duke Leto Atreides ( Moon Knight’s Oscar Isaac), is assigned to serve as the fiefholder of Arrakis, a mysterious desert planet home to the most valuable resource in the galaxy, spice. It is Duke Leto’s dream to bring peace to Arrakis and form an alliance with the native Fremens, but House Harkonnen, the rival of House Atreides, conspires with the Emperor to retake the planet and destroy House Atreides. After a coup by House Harkonnen, it’s up to Paul to carry out his father’s vision and become the savior to unite the people of Arrakis.
Dune was named one of the best films of 2021 by many critics, winning six Oscars and grossing over $400 million worldwide. The story of Paul’s heroic journey will continue later this year in the sequel, Dune: Part Two.
 Below is everything we know about the upcoming Dune: Part Two.
Hulu with Live TV Free Trial: Everything you need to know 5 sci-fi movies on Netflix you need to watch in October 3 sci-fi movies on Tubi you need to watch in September When does Dune: Part Two come out? Image used with permission by copyright holder Dune: Part Two will arrive in theaters on November 3, 2023.
The film was supposed to be released on October 20, 2023, and then November 17, 2023, before settling on its current date on November 3.
Unlike the first film, Dune: Part Two will not premiere at the 2023 Venice Film Festival.
Deadline reported that the VFX is still being worked on, and due to its November release date, a late-August premiere date at Venice is too early for the studio. However, a festival premiere is still possible for the sequel.
What is Dune: Part Two about? Image used with permission by copyright holder Dune: Part Two will pick up shortly after the events of Dune: Part One.
 The end of the previous film saw Paul following Chani ( Euphoria’s Zendaya) and the rest of the Fremens into the desert. Paul will attempt to fulfill his father’s goal of uniting the people of Arrakis and bringing peace to the planet. Paul will also seek to avenge his father’s death and the destruction of House Atreides at the hands of House Harkonnen.
The official logline reads: “This follow-up film will explore the mythic journey of Paul Atreides as he unites with Chani and the Fremen while on a warpath of revenge against the conspirators who destroyed his family. Facing a choice between the love of his life and the fate of the known universe, he endeavors to prevent a terrible future only he can foresee.” Who is in the cast of Dune: Part Two? Image used with permission by copyright holder Chalamet will continue to headline the Dune franchise in the role of Paul. Returning stars from the first film include Zendaya as Chani, a Fremen and Paul’s love interest; Rebecca Ferguson ( Mission: Impossible – Dead Reckoning ) as Lady Jessica, Paul’s mother; Josh Brolin ( Avengers: Endgame ) Gurney Halleck, House Atreides’ weapons master; Stellan Skarsgård ( Avengers: Age of Ultron ) as Baron Vladimir Harkonnen, leader of House Harkonnen and enemy of House Atreides; Javier Bardem ( No Country for Old Men ) as Stilgar, leader of the Fremens; Dave Bautista ( Guardians of the Galaxy Vol. 3 ) as Glossu Rabban, Baron’s vindictive nephew; Stephen McKinley Henderson ( Lady Bird ) as Thufir Hawat, an ally and Mentant to House Atreides; and Charlotte Rampling ( 45 Years ) as Gaius Helen Mohiam, the Reverend Mother for the Bene Gesserit.
There will be no shortage of star power as Austin Butler ( Elvi s), Christopher Walken ( The Deer Hunter ), and Florence Pugh ( Don’t Worry Darling ) are joining the cast for Part Two.
 Butler stars as the villainous Feyd-Rautha Harkonnen, while Walken plays Emperor Shaddam IV, with Pugh as his daughter, Princess Irulan. Also appearing in Part Two is Léa Seydoux ( No Time to Die ) as Lady Margot of the Bene Gesserit, a close friend of the Emperor, and Souheila Yacoub ( Climax ) as a Fremen warrior named Shishakli. Tim Blake Nelson ( Watchmen ) has additionally been cast in an undisclosed role.
Villeneuve returns to direct Dune: Part Two from a script co-written by Villeneuve, Jon Spaihts ( Prometheus ), and Eric Roth ( Forrest Gump ).
Is there a trailer for Dune: Part Two? Warner Bros.
As of April 26, there is no trailer for Dune: Part Two.
 Additionally, no official images have been released.
Dune: Part Two is a Warner Bros. Pictures, so it would make sense for the studio to attach a trailer to one of its upcoming theatrical movies. The two potential films where it makes sense to attach the trailer for Dune: Part Two are The Flash (June 16) and Barbie (July 21).
Can you stream Dune: Part Two? Warner Bros.
Dune: Part Two will be released exclusively in theaters on November 3, 2023. Unlike Dune , it will not be simultaneously streaming on Max. The streaming date will come after its theatrical run, ranging from 30 days to three months.
Will there be a sequel to Dune: Part Two? Warner Bros.
Villeneuve has expressed interest in making a third film based on Dune Messiah , the second book in the Dune novel series.
Messiah takes place 12 years after the events of Dune.
 However, the second film’s success will determine whether Messiah is greenlit.
There will also be a spinoff series on Max titled, Dune: The Sisterhood , which explores the origins of the Bene Gesserit 10,000 years before Paul Atreides. However, the series has seen numerous changes to the showrunner and cast over the past few months. In late 2022, Diane Ademu-John ( The Haunting of Bly Manor ) stepped down as co-showrunner shortly after production began, with Alison Schapker ( Lost ) as the sole showrunner. Director Johan Renuck ( Chernobyl ), who signed on to direct the first two episodes, and Shirley Henderson ( The Rise of Skywalker ), who was set to star as Tula Harkonnen, left the project in February 2023.
 The production is now on hiatus.
Is there a poster for Dune: Part Two? There is now! After unveiling the first trailer at CinemaCon, and not letting the public see it, Warner Bros. has taken pity on Dune fans and released the first official poster for the movie. The first poster is below: Image used with permission by copyright holder It’s fitting that first poster focuses on the first film’s primary characters, Paul and Chani, played by Timothée Chalamet and Zendaya. It’s also appropriate that nothing else is featured except for a blazing orange sun, which is dominates the desert planet Arrakis’ landscape. The poster gives off a vintage sci-fi paperback feel, which draws back to Dune ‘s literary origins as a literary genre landmark that was first published in 1965.
Editors' Recommendations 3 underrated shows on Netflix you need to watch in November 3 action movies on Netflix you need to watch in October 3 rom-coms on Netflix you need to watch in September 5 sci-fi movies on Netflix you need to watch in September 3 underrated shows on Netflix you need to watch in September Sci-Fi Entertainment Elon Musk and Mark Zuckerberg are social media titans and legends in their own minds. And while both men are incredibly wealthy, they aren't exactly beloved by the general public. Zuckerberg has faced intense criticism for years over his stewardship of Facebook and its parent company, Meta. Musk's rapid decline in popularity started when he took over Twitter in late 2022. Musk's unpopular changes to Twitter, including rebranding it as X, left an opening for Meta to launch a new social platform of its own called Threads. From there, the rivalry between Musk and Zuckerberg has blown up into a potential celebrity fight that may be settled in a real ring.
There is definitely an appeal to the idea of seeing two tech-bro billionaires knocking the Hell out of each other in a fight. But while Zuckerberg and Musk have apparently had serious conversations about making it happen, whether it will actually come to pass remains to be seen. For now, what we can tell you is how this conflict started, where the bout may be held, and everything you need to know if Elon Musk vs. Mark Zuckerberg becomes a real fight.
How did Zuckerberg vs. Musk start? As noted above, the launch of Threads in June led Musk to accuse Meta of stealing Twitter's intellectual property. That's because after Musk laid off thousands of Twitter's employees, Meta hired some of them to work on its own projects. Coincidentally or not, Meta now has a very Twitter-like platform. Musk appeared to take the initial announcement as a joke. And when a user reminded Musk that Zuckerberg has taken up jiu-jitsu, he quipped "I’m up for a cage match if he is lol." Entertainment In 2022, 449 movies were released in the U.S. and Canada, according to Statista. Pre-COVID, there were 792 released in 2019. With such a high output, there are bound to be movies that slip through the cracks for many reasons, from poor marketing and mixed reviews to crowded release dates and confusing distribution methods.
However, streaming services, including Max, have given many films a new life with a bigger audience and better promotion. If you're looking for a hidden gem, then watch these three underrated movies on Max.
The Drop (2014) Entertainment By splitting Frank Herbert's classic sci-fi novel Dune into two parts, director Denis Villeneuve delayed the introduction of the story's primary villain: The Emperor of the Universe, Shaddam IV (Christopher Walken). But in the newly released trailer for Dune: Part Two, viewers finally get their first glimpse at the man who plotted the downfall of House Atreides. House Harkonnen may have struck the blow against their rival house, but Shaddam IV allowed it because he feared that the late Duke Leto Atreides (Oscar Isaac) would unseat him. But the Emperor has badly miscalculated, because Leto's son, Paul Atreides (Timothée Chalamet), is now poised to make Shaddam IV's fears into a reality.
Dune: Part Two | Official Trailer 2 Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
