Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix F1 Live Stream Stranger Things Season 5 Best New Movies Most Popular Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney+ UFC Live Stream Best Movies on Disney+ Home Entertainment Reviews Dungeons & Dragons: Honor Among Thieves review: a breath of fresh air By Alex Welch Close A likable cast of heroes A clever and entertaining screenplay Jonathan Goldstein and John Francis Daley's lively, visually inventive direction Rough visual effects throughout Some comedic and emotional moments don't land as well as others The opening moments of Dungeons & Dragons: Honor Among Thieves feel intentionally designed to call to mind the infamously brutal cold open of Game of Thrones.
 As an imposing orc is escorted through a cold blizzard in the film’s prologue, it’s easy to imagine a reality where Honor Among Thieves was just yet another somber fantasy adventure in the same vein as Thrones or even, to a lesser extent, Lord of the Rings.
 Thankfully, the film pivots as far away as it can from the somber brutalism of those two properties.
It isn’t long after the aforementioned orc prisoner is introduced for the first time that he is summarily beaten up in truly screwball fashion by the film’s actual leads, the endlessly optimistic Edgin (Chris Pine) and the tough but kind-hearted Holga (Michelle Rodriguez). Moments later, Pine’s Edgin launches into a voice-over narration that winkingly and efficiently explains exactly how he and Rodriguez’s Holga ended up in their frostbitten prison in the first place. For their next trick, Honor Among Thieves directors Jonathan Goldstein and John Francis Daley wrap up Edgin’s knowingly exposition-heavy monologue with a twist that pays off the scene’s central running joke in unexpected fashion.
Baldur’s Gate 3 fans should watch Dungeons & Dragons: Honor Among Thieves. Here’s why Dungeons & Dragons: Honor Among Thieves cast on turning a bunch of misfits into heroes As far as openings go, Dungeons & Dragons: Honor Among Thieves ’ effectively establishes the tongue-in-cheek, lighthearted tone that separates it from so many of the other, suffocatingly serious Hollywood blockbusters moviegoers see nowadays. However, while Goldstein and Daley’s ability to seamlessly blend their outrageous sense of humor with the film’s fantasy setting would be reason enough to recommend Honor Among Thieves , what’s even more impressive is how the duo does so while also imbuing their latest directorial effort with more genuine heart and sincerity than most viewers will likely see coming.
Aidan Monaghan/Paramount Pictures / Paramount Pictures Coming off their underrated 2018 studio outing, Game Night , Daley and Goldstein have returned with another star-studded studio comedy that’s light, punchy, and — above all else — immensely fun. Much like Game Night , Daley and Goldstein’s latest film revolves around a cast of conflicting and complimentary personalities. At the center of the film are Edgin and Holga, two misfits who bonded together years before to help raise Edgin’s young daughter, Kira (Chloe Coleman). When Honor Among Thieves first catches up with them, the pair is carrying out a multi-year prison sentence for their participation in a heist that they attempted to carry out with their former band of thieves.
After Holga and Edgin break free from their shared imprisonment, they immediately seek out Forge Fitzwilliam (Hugh Grant), a con man who made it out of their failed heist and swore to take care of Kira. When they find him, Edgin and Holga discover that Forge has not only risen up in society’s ranks and become a lord but he’s also been steadily turning Kira against her former guardians. With the help of a nefarious wizard named Sofina (Daisy Head), Forge sends Edgin and Holga away. In doing so, he ignites a desire within Edgin and Holga to both win Kira back and steal all of Forge’s riches.
To pull off their task, Edgin and Holga reunite with another member of their former band of thieves, an insecure and bumbling sorcerer named Simon (Justice Smith), who helps them recruit Doric (Sophia Lillis), a powerful shapeshifter. Along the way, the group of misfit heroes also crosses paths with Xenk Yendar (Regé-Jean Page), a charming and immortal paladin, who helps them retrieve a powerful magical artifact from a hellish underground world known as “The Underdark.” Together, the heroes form a group that, like most D&D adventuring parties, feels both familiar and specific.
Aidan Monaghan/Paramount Pictures As convoluted and relentlessly knotty as its plot is, Dungeons & Dragons: Honor Among Thieves speeds through its adventure at a fast pace that doesn’t ever let the film become too bogged down in the weeds of its own world-building or lore. Despite featuring more than its fair share of Easter eggs, Honor Among Thieves never feels weighed down by the legacy of its name brand, or by the fact that it is just Hollywood’s latest attempt to capitalize on the success of Dungeons & Dragons.
 The film doesn’t, by any means, hide its potential franchise ambitions, but it also doesn’t let the weight of its IP origins distract it from the most important aspects of its story.
While Honor Among Thieves never quite captures the true absurdity or chaos that can occur during a D&D game, either, the film does an effective job at forcing its characters — particularly Pine’s Edgin — to constantly rethink their plans and improvise. The film’s third act is a series of improvisations and backup plans concocted by its heroes every time one of their efforts to best Grant’s Forge go awry. The film’s clunky batch of fantasy character names, meanwhile, only makes its D&D roots feel that much more palpable (“Edgin” feels precisely like the type of name that would come from the fantasy word generators D&D players frequently use).
More than anything, Daley and Goldstein’s hyper, character-driven approach to Honor Among Thieves ’ story ensures that the film never feels too weighty or massive for its own good. Like all Dungeons & Dragons campaigns, the film’s ultimate purpose is to entertain. It’s to Daley and Goldstein’s credit that the film pulls that off as well as it does, especially in spite of the bad visual effects that inevitably drag down some of Honor Among Thieves ’ biggest and boldest set pieces. Fortunately, there are a handful of sequences throughout the film that are as visually polished as they are well-constructed — namely, the Xenk-led excursion into the Underdark that helps cap off its second act.
Paramount Pictures On-screen, Honor Among Thieves ’ crew of main and supporting players all fill their roles well. Pine and Grant are their usual, reliably charismatic selves, and prove to be capable of both having fun with Honor Among Thieves ’ fantasy genre roots and treating their characters’ emotional journeys with enough sincerity to ensure that they land. Rodriguez, meanwhile, shines in a role that lets her be as ferocious and formidable as audiences expect, but also softer and more emotionally vulnerable than she’s typically allowed to be. Her work here serves as yet another reminder of how good Rodriguez can be when she’s not stuck working within the formulaic franchise machinery of the Fast and Furious series.
Elsewhere, neither Smith nor Lillis shines quite as brightly as their co-stars, though, that’s largely due to the constraints of Michael Gilio, Goldstein, and Daley’s screenplay. Simon’s journey toward self-confidence, consequently, doesn’t feel as fleshed out as some of Honor Among Thieves ’ other, more emotionally resonant arcs, including Edgin’s gradual, bittersweet realization of his failures as a father. Page, for his part, fulfills the requirements of his role as the charming, aloof Xenk with an ease that makes it easy to remember why the actor caused such a stir just a few years ago.
Whether the film’s characters will ever get the chance to return for a sequel or not, Daley and Goldstein’s latest directorial effort stands on its own.
Honor Among Thieves is the kind of increasingly rare Hollywood contemporary blockbuster that prioritizes its characters over everything else — sometimes to its own, visual detriment. At its best, the film manages to capture the same sense of fun and infectious camaraderie that was once a core component of the fantasy genre.
Dungeons & Dragons: Honor Among Thieves doesn’t just bring friendship back to the genre, though. It also reminds viewers why it became such an essential part of fantasy stories in the first place.
The film proves that even the most seemingly mercenary of brand cash-ins can emerge as worthwhile and memorable stories — so long as they’re told with equal amounts of heart and charm.
Dungeons & Dragons: Honor Among Thieves hits theaters on March 31. For a detailed explanation about the film’s ending, please read Dungeons & Dragons: Honor Among Thieves’ ending, explained.
Editors' Recommendations 3 action movies on Prime Video you need to watch in September New Dungeons & Dragons: Honor Among Thieves preview enters a dangerous maze Dungeons & Dragons: Honor Among Thieves trailer debuts at SDCC 2022 Product Reviews Entertainment November has been a great month for movies at Netflix, with the premiere of David Fincher's The Killer, and recent box office hits like Insidious: The Red Door and Spider-Man: Across the Spider-Verse. This week, the new additions include The Impossible, a 2012 survival thriller that has already landed on the list of the 10 most popular movies on Netflix. For younger viewers, Minions is also heating up the charts despite the pending departure of the other films in the franchise at the end of the month.
There's only one holiday weekend left in November, so what's the best way to stay on top of everything new on Netflix? Why, we are, of course. Our list of the best movies on Netflix right now is updated every Friday, even on holiday weekends, so you can easily find something for every movie lover in your life.
Entertainment Summer is long over, and the fall season is in full swing. It's now late 2023, and just about everyone is subscribed to Netflix and Hulu. But would you be surprised if I told you one of the most underrated streaming services around is Tubi? The upstart streamer has tons of new and old TV shows from every decade and every genre imaginable. Want to watch the buzziest series that aired on Max? Tubi has it. Are you feeling nostalgic about that old movie or cartoon you used to watch as a kid in the '80s or '90s? Chances are, Tubi has it.
Tubi has so much content that it can be hard to choose which shows and films are worth your time. Digital Trends is here to help you sort out which ones are worth watching. Even though the streaming service is free, time is valuable, and no one wants to waste it watching subpar content.
Entertainment Rather than waiting for the Thanksgiving holiday weekend, Apple TV+ and Netflix dropped two of their biggest shows of the fall this week. Netflix's The Crown kicked off its sixth and final season with four new episodes, while the Apple TV+ Godzilla-adjacent series Monarch: Legacy of Monster, dropped its first two episodes this week, with new episodes arriving weekly thereafter. Also this week, Scott Pilgrim Takes Off hits Netflix, while Max gets in on the act this week by premiering the second season of Julia.
Netflix, Amazon Prime Video, Hulu, Max, Apple TV+, Disney+, Paramount+, and Peacock still have new shows coming for the rest of November, including a handful arriving next week. But if you've been thinking about cutting back on your streaming bill, then perhaps you should consider signing up for the ad-supported tiers. In the meantime, keep reading for our weekly roundup of the best new shows to stream.
When you're done here, check out the best new movies to stream this week, as well as the best shows on Netflix, best shows on Hulu, best shows on Amazon Prime Video, and best shows on Disney+.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
