Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix F1 Live Stream Stranger Things Season 5 Best New Movies Most Popular Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney+ UFC Live Stream Best Movies on Disney+ Home Entertainment Guides All of Wes Anderson’s movies, ranked By Alex Welch Close Focus Features There aren’t many filmmakers working today who are quite as distinct or lauded as Wes Anderson. The writer-director has not only released around 10 of the most acclaimed American dramedies of the past few decades, but he’s also gradually honed a visual style that has inspired plenty of YouTube parodies and — much to everyone’s horror — AI-generated spoofs.
 This week, Anderson returns with his 11th feature film, Asteroid City , and based on the reception it received at the Cannes International Film Festival in May, it seems safe to say that he’s got yet another winner on his hands.
11. Isle of Dogs (2018) 10. The Life Aquatic with Steve Zissou (2004) 9. Bottle Rocket (1996) 8. The French Dispatch (2021) 7. Rushmore (1998) 6. Fantastic Mr. Fox (2009) 5. Asteroid City (2023) 4. The Darjeeling Limited (2007) 3. Moonrise Kingdom (2012) 2. The Royal Tenenbaums (2001) 1. The Grand Budapest Hotel (2014) With that in mind, now seems like as good a time as any to bite off a bit more than we can chew and rank all of Anderson’s films, including Asteroid City , from worst to best. Read on to learn which of the filmmaker’s efforts we think aren’t quite as good as the rest, and which we consider to be the best of his career.
11. Isle of Dogs (2018) Fox Searchlight Pictures Wes Anderson has never made a bad movie, but Isle of Dogs is certainly his most forgettable. His stop-motion follow-up to 2009’s Fantastic Mr. Fox , this 2018 animated dramedy delivers an occasionally charming, but often lackluster adventure. In most other directors’ filmographies, a movie like Isle of Dogs might not stick out quite as much as it does in Anderson’s, but it’s one of the only movies he’s made that just falls a bit flat.
Not only is the film less visually striking than Anderson’s other stop-motion comedy, but its world, characters, and story all feel less well-realized than is typical of the writer-director. For those reasons (and a few others), Isle of Dogs earns its place at the bottom of this list.
10. The Life Aquatic with Steve Zissou (2004) Buena Vista Pictures Distribution Only a director as accomplished as Wes Anderson could have a movie as good as The Life Aquatic with Steve Zissou land this low on a ranked list of his movies. His 2004 follow-up to The Royal Tenenbaums is one of the most visually inventive films he’s ever made, and its eccentric, central documentarian oceanographers are as charming as any of the other misfits that Anderson has introduced over the years.
As imaginative as it is and as astonishing as Bill Murray is in the film’s eponymous role, though, there are a handful of things that ultimately prevent The Life Aquatic from earning a higher spot on this list, including a supporting turn from Cate Blanchett that doesn’t quite work as well as she and Anderson likely hoped it would.
9. Bottle Rocket (1996) Sony Pictures Releasing Not many directors can boast that their debut film was hailed as one of the best of its decade by Martin Scorsese, but Wes Anderson can. It’s not hard to see why Anderson’s first feature film, Bottle Rocket , made such an indelible impression on a filmmaker like Scorsese. While it’s undeniably rougher around the edges than any of Anderson’s other films, Bottle Rocket is such an infectiously exuberant piece of work that it’s impossible not to get swept up by its charm and romanticism.
To those paying attention at the time, it loudly and emphatically announced Anderson as a filmmaker to watch. Nearly 30 years after its release, the film’s only real sin is that it now feels like the first attempt at a meal that Anderson has spent the rest of his career perfecting.
8. The French Dispatch (2021) Searchlight Pictures When it was released in 2021, The French Dispatch was received somewhat tepidly by critics. While it garnered largely positive reviews, many characterized it as a step down from its director’s more recent films. In the years since it was released, though, The French Dispatch ‘s reputation has only continued to improve — and for good reason. Even though it isn’t quite as focused or neat as many of his best films, Anderson’s quasi-celebration of the arts doubles as a love letter to not only history’s great artists, but also the editors and mentors who supported them.
The film is one of the most visually experimental and stunning that Anderson has ever made, and it’s worth seeking out solely for a third-act scene between actors Jeffrey Wright and Stephen Park that is so emotionally vulnerable and quietly insightful that it hits like a knockout punch. Even when he’s not necessarily firing on all cylinders, Anderson still has the ability to take your breath away, as he often does throughout The French Dispatch.
7. Rushmore (1998) Buena Vista Pictures Distribution Many critics saw Wes Anderson as a director with real promise after Bottle Rocket , but it was his second film, 1998’s Rushmore , that truly announced him as a filmmaker whose work was worth investing in. The film bears many of the hallmarks of Anderson’s later movies, including a quietly suffering lead in Jason Schwartzman’s Max Fischer and an emotionally distant father figure in Bill Murray’s Herman Blume, but what makes Rushmore still so affecting to this day is just how matter-of-factly it explores its precocious hero’s journey of self-exploration. It’s a film that, much like its lead, desperately wants to be cool, but Anderson, in his own wisdom, doesn’t let that desperation distract viewers from the wound that quietly throbs beneath Rushmore ‘s considerable layers of artifice.
6. Fantastic Mr. Fox (2009) 20th Century Fox Based on the Roald Dahl children’s book of the same name, which Anderson co-adapted with Noah Baumbach, Fantastic Mr. Fox is a masterful expression of its director as a visual artist. It’s a spellbinding, endlessly entertaining collage of autumnal images that look almost too perfect to be real. Thanks to Baumbach and Anderson’s pitch-perfect script and the voice performances given by its cast (George Clooney, Meryl Streep, and Murray, among others), the film also ranks squarely as one of Anderson’s funniest.
It’s certainly not lacking for heart, either. On the contrary, Anderson, like Dahl before him, creates a strange kind of inimitable magic in Fantastic Mr. Fox.
 The fact that it isn’t higher on this list is more of a testament to the quality of Anderson’s output than it is a commentary on the film itself.
5. Asteroid City (2023) Image used with permission by copyright holder Partly a sci-fi adventure and partly a love letter to Broadway, Asteroid City is one of the most emotionally and thematically opaque films that Anderson has ever made. It’s also one of his best. The film’s cast boasts a wide array of returning Anderson favorites and several welcome newcomers, including Scarlett Johansson, Tom Hanks, and Margot Robbie, all of whom fall so quickly into Asteroid City ‘s unique rhythm and tonal space that it feels like they’ve been working with Anderson for years.
Despite what its playful 1950s Americana aesthetic might have you believe, what ultimately emerges through all of the film’s many meta layers is an openhearted treatise on the value of exploration, whether it be artistic, scientific, or emotional. In the years to come, Asteroid City ‘s place on lists like this one may very well end up shifting quite a bit. For right now, though, it seems safe to call it one of the better and more interesting movies that Anderson has ever made.
4. The Darjeeling Limited (2007) Fox Searchlight Pictures For years, The Darjeeling Limited was considered Wes Anderson’s worst film. Sixteen years after its release, it’s unclear how it could have ever garnered such a reputation. Not only is The Darjeeling Limited one of Anderson’s most purely entertaining films (its central trip across India never fails to capture your attention), but it’s also one of the most emotionally confrontational of his career. Featuring three equally raw performances from Owen Wilson, Adrien Brody, and Jason Schwartzman, the film is an affecting exploration of what can happen when a trio of brothers tries to reckon with the fact that they have been — and still are — moving in three very different directions.
The film features a prolonged second-act flashback that easily ranks as one of the best sequences Anderson has ever put together. Beyond that, its script, which was penned by Anderson, Roman Coppola, and Schwartzman, features several lines of dialogue that are among the most heartbreaking of any that Anderson has ever brought to life on-screen. Frankly, we’d dare anyone to try to make it through Owen Wilson’s grand, third-act unmasking without being brought to the verge of tears.
3. Moonrise Kingdom (2012) Focus Features As much an examination of young love as it is a reminder of how youth inevitably fades, Moonrise Kingdom is among Wes Anderson’s most playful and melancholic films. While stylistically tamer than many of the movies that have followed it, this 2012 dramedy conforms to its real-life environments more naturally and authentically than perhaps any of Anderson’s other efforts. The result is a golden, late summer romance that contains hints of the mossy, burnt-orange fall that waits just around the corner for its characters.
Featuring a massive ensemble cast, Moonrise Kingdom is kept afloat by the rebelliously youthful performances of its two leads, Kara Hayward and Jared Gilman, who Anderson surrounds with a lineup of older performers, including Frances McDormand, Edward Norton, Tilda Swinton, and Murray. Of all of the film’s cast members, though, no one makes quite as much of an impression as Bruce Willis, whose performance as a lonely, lovestruck police captain ranks among the best of his career.
2. The Royal Tenenbaums (2001) Buena Vista Pictures Distribution If it was Rushmore that officially launched Wes Anderson into the mainstream, then it was The Royal Tenenbaums that made his name one that audiences would never forget. This beloved 2001 classic features many of the details that have come to define Anderson’s filmmaking, including an ensemble cast of eccentric characters, a selection of perfectly placed needle drops, and images that are so carefully composed that they almost, almost distract from the film’s otherwise emotionally turbulent story.
The Royal Tenenbaums is the quintessential Wes Anderson film. It’s visually gorgeous, oddly funny, and sweetly, unexpectedly affecting. Unlike many of the movies that have followed it, The Royal Tenenbaums also contains the same raw thrum of emotion that defined all of Anderson’s early efforts. Over the years, the filmmaker’s emotional and stylistic interests haven’t always gelled perfectly well, but in The Royal Tenenbaums , they come together to create a rare, generation-defining piece of art.
1. The Grand Budapest Hotel (2014) Fox Searchlight Pictures Many of Wes Anderson’s best films rely on comedic and emotional beats that are so precisely calibrated that they feel like daggers. As a result, watching his films can occasionally feel like being hit with moments of humor and heartbreak that completely sneak up on you.
The Grand Budapest Hotel isn’t like that, though. Its story’s shades of comedy and tragedy don’t hit you like sharply refined daggers, but ocean waves, which continually wash over you until you’re so enveloped in the film’s world and 20th-century tale that its quiet, melancholic final moments manage to land with just as much weight as any other section or scene from Anderson’s other films.
The Grand Budapest Hotel also, notably, features what might be the best screen performance of Anderson’s entire filmography, which comes courtesy of Ralph Fiennes as the film’s central hotel concierge. Fiennes’ work here is nothing short of revelatory. It’s a performance that totally redefines what most viewers previously thought Fiennes was capable of. The fact that he didn’t receive more recognition for his performance in the film is disappointing, but ultimately matters little. As it is, Fiennes’ performance is the final piece that secures The Grand Budapest Hotel ‘s place as the best movie Anderson has made up to this point.
Entertainment November has been a great month for movies at Netflix, with the premiere of David Fincher's The Killer, and recent box office hits like Insidious: The Red Door and Spider-Man: Across the Spider-Verse. This week, the new additions include The Impossible, a 2012 survival thriller that has already landed on the list of the 10 most popular movies on Netflix. For younger viewers, Minions is also heating up the charts despite the pending departure of the other films in the franchise at the end of the month.
There's only one holiday weekend left in November, so what's the best way to stay on top of everything new on Netflix? Why, we are, of course. Our list of the best movies on Netflix right now is updated every Friday, even on holiday weekends, so you can easily find something for every movie lover in your life.
Entertainment Summer is long over, and the fall season is in full swing. It's now late 2023, and just about everyone is subscribed to Netflix and Hulu. But would you be surprised if I told you one of the most underrated streaming services around is Tubi? The upstart streamer has tons of new and old TV shows from every decade and every genre imaginable. Want to watch the buzziest series that aired on Max? Tubi has it. Are you feeling nostalgic about that old movie or cartoon you used to watch as a kid in the '80s or '90s? Chances are, Tubi has it.
Tubi has so much content that it can be hard to choose which shows and films are worth your time. Digital Trends is here to help you sort out which ones are worth watching. Even though the streaming service is free, time is valuable, and no one wants to waste it watching subpar content.
Entertainment Rather than waiting for the Thanksgiving holiday weekend, Apple TV+ and Netflix dropped two of their biggest shows of the fall this week. Netflix's The Crown kicked off its sixth and final season with four new episodes, while the Apple TV+ Godzilla-adjacent series Monarch: Legacy of Monster, dropped its first two episodes this week, with new episodes arriving weekly thereafter. Also this week, Scott Pilgrim Takes Off hits Netflix, while Max gets in on the act this week by premiering the second season of Julia.
Netflix, Amazon Prime Video, Hulu, Max, Apple TV+, Disney+, Paramount+, and Peacock still have new shows coming for the rest of November, including a handful arriving next week. But if you've been thinking about cutting back on your streaming bill, then perhaps you should consider signing up for the ad-supported tiers. In the meantime, keep reading for our weekly roundup of the best new shows to stream.
When you're done here, check out the best new movies to stream this week, as well as the best shows on Netflix, best shows on Hulu, best shows on Amazon Prime Video, and best shows on Disney+.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
