Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix F1 Live Stream Stranger Things Season 5 Best New Movies Most Popular Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney+ UFC Live Stream Best Movies on Disney+ Home Entertainment Features Guardians of the Galaxy never needed the MCU to be successful By David Caballero Close Before James Gunn moves entirely to DC , he has one last ride to fulfill with the Marvel Cinematic Universe. Gunn will premiere Guardians of the Galaxy Vol. 3 this week, finalizing the trilogy he began nearly 10 years ago with the unexpected box-office hit and critical darling Guardians of the Galaxy.
 Gunn single-handedly raised one of Marvel’s most obscure teams into the mainstream, turned Chris Pratt into a star — for a while, anyway — and launched the cosmic corner of the MCU with a healthy dose of humor and an overabundance of heart.
Heart meets stupid Great despite, not because of, Marvel It’s showtime, a-holes The Guardians movies are silly and funny, with several large-scale set pieces of flashy lights and boom-boom-pows meant to fulfill the MCU quota. But there’s an emotional center to them — it’s not just a collection of characters in tight spandex jumping around, but a group of well-defined, three-dimensional figures relating to one another while saving the universe. In many ways, the Guardians trilogy is everything the MCU should be, to the point where it’s not an overstatement to say these films would’ve succeeded with or without the Marvel connection — if anything, the MCU needs them more than they need it.
Heart meets stupid Image used with permission by copyright holder What was Gunn’s secret? How did he take a bunch of weirdo nobodies and turn them into the ultimate space family within the world’s largest franchise? Gunn is a master of blending pathos with absurdity, and that combo is at the heart of the Guardians’ success. More importantly, Gunn understands that audiences need to care for and relate to the characters if they are to root for them — something that many of his fellow superhero directors seem incapable of comprehending.
Guardians of the Galaxy or The Suicide Squad: Which James Gunn movie is better? Forget Guardians of the Galaxy Vol. 3; the 2021 video game is better The best characters in Guardians of the Galaxy Vol. 3, ranked The Guardians as endearingly stupid. All of them, except for Gamora and Nebula, qualify as dumb and clumsy. Selfish, self-serving, and vain, they are heroes almost by accident. They are flawed, but never annoying or tiresome. Unlike other movies in the ever-expanding MCU , where one character is the overwhelming center of attention, the Guardians are a true team. It’s not just about Star-Lord/Peter Quill; Drax and Rocket get as much mileage from any given joke, while Groot steals every scene by repeatedly saying the same three words. Peter might be the stereotypical superhero hunk, but he isn’t the only hero, and as corny as this will sound, the Guardians movies are a full, beating heart split into eight parts.
That’s not to say they are perfect, but they are something that no other MCU film, let alone trilogy, can claim to be: consistent. Thanks to having only one writer and director at the helm, the Guardians films feel like a comprehensive, continuous story that gets progressively larger as the characters evolve and interact with their greater universe. It’s ridiculously dystopian to praise a trilogy for feeling like one, but unfortunately, that’s the current state of the MCU.
Great despite, not because of, Marvel Image used with permission by copyright holder Where other MCU trilogies crumbled under the weight of their franchise-expanding duties, Guardians survived by being mostly detached from the Earth-based shenanigans of the Avengers.
Captain America got his trilogy turned into an Avengers spinoff, Thor didn’t know when to retire gracefully and ruined its own legacy, Iron Man is just outright bad, and both Spider-Man and Ant-Man got their series hijacked by the mediocre Multiverse saga.
But the Guardians have endured, resisting the MCU’s most jarring changes — from killing Gamora in Infinity War to bringing her back in Endgame to saddling the team with an obnoxious Thor in a setup that ultimately led to nothing but a gratuitous cameo. And that’s because the Guardians have never depended on the MCU to tell their stories. While every other superhero within the MCU operated within the franchise’s rules, limits, and idiosyncrasies, the Guardians hovered in the stars, wreaking havoc at their own pace.
If anything, the MCU needed the Guardians. Because, even when saddled with the obnoxious pressures of worldbuilding, the Guardians pulled it off seamlessly, especially because the Infinity Saga lived and died with them. The MCU needed the Guardians to introduce Thanos and give him any semblance of emotional development — indeed, everything that made Thanos the best MCU villain came from the Guardians’ lore. The Infinity Stones? They were introduced in the first Guardians movie. Almost everything that made the Infinity Saga work came from the Guardians’ corner.
The MCU thrived because of the Guardians, but the relationship was far from reciprocal. Because, other than the protection and name recognition of the MCU banner, the trilogy received nothing from the Marvel Universe other than storytelling headaches. If Gunn had done the first Guardians movie as a standalone adventure about a ragtag team of space bandits joining to stop a multiversal threat, the films would’ve still thrived because nothing that made them great came from Marvel. Can the MCU honestly say it would’ve worked without the Guardians? It’s showtime, a-holes Image used with permission by copyright holder With Guardians of the Galaxy Vol. 3 , Gunn delivers one final ride for everyone’s favorite group space family, and it couldn’t come at a better time.
The MCU is at an all-time low , delivering back-to-back mediocrity. Gone is the franchise’s spark and unique mix of heart and originality, replaced by increasingly by-the-numbers efforts that seem factory-produced, soulless cash grabs.
The MCU desperately needs a dose of cosmic lunacy only the Guardians can provide. It will doubtless be a bittersweet moment for the cinematic juggernaut; after the Guardians retire, who will remain to rescue the MCU from creative bankruptcy? Gunn is leaving the MCU on his own terms and through the big door — not that he will have an easy time rescuing the train wreck that is the DCEU , but that’s another story. His Marvel journey will end on a high note. But the MCU will be left to its worrisome devices, without the one IP that still had any ounce of life to it.
Guardians of the Galaxy Vol. 3 is not only the ending of the MCU’s best trilogy, but is also the conclusion of Marvel’s age as a big-screen game-changer and cultural giant. When the Guardians fly away together into the forever and beautiful sky, so will Marvel’s last glimmer of brilliance. And all that will be left are multiple Kangs, each as problematic as the previous one. So get ready to enjoy Guardians of the Galaxy Vol. 3 , the MCU’s last hurrah. It’s showtime, a-holes.
Guardians of the Galaxy Vol. 3 is now in theaters.
Editors' Recommendations Is James Gunn’s top 5 favorite comic book movies list accurate? Please, Marvel, don’t make a Guardians of the Galaxy Vol. 4 Is Guardians of the Galaxy Vol. 3 the best James Gunn movie ever? Guardians of the Galaxy Vol. 3 introduces Marvel’s best villain since Thanos The best songs in the Guardians of the Galaxy movies, ranked Comic Book Movies Features Marvel Entertainment Do you love any film enough to watch it 600 times? Because according to The Hollywood Reporter, director James Gunn has created 600 unique versions of his final Marvel movie, Guardians of the Galaxy Vol. 3. However, there's no need to freak out and try to watch every single version. Gunn didn't change any scenes or plot points between them. Instead, this effort was meant to ensure that movie lovers will get to see the film in the best aspect ratio possible in any given theater.
If 600 versions sound like a lot, keep in mind that James Cameron's Avatar: The Way of Water reportedly had 1,065 versions in theaters all over the world. Gunn's Guardians variations are a record for a Marvel movie, and he apparently played with the way the aspect ratio will change during the movie itself. For example, the first 45 minutes of the movie was shot in a flat 1.85 aspect ratio, while the remaining parts of the film are in a 2.39 ratio. This means that Gunn specifically picked moments in the later part of the movie where the action on-screen will appear to get bigger.
Entertainment The Marvel Cinematic Universe is about to turn 15, and it's finally slowing down. However, before taking a much-needed hiatus, it will premiere James Gunn's highly-anticipated Guardians of the Galaxy Vol. 3, the final send-off for everyone's favorite cosmic a-holes. The Guardians movies are among the best MCU projects for many reasons, including their abundance of incredible female characters. From Gamora to Nebula and Mantis, Guardians has some of the most complex and well-defined female figures in the ever-expanding MCU.
It's not like other corners of the MCU don't have great female characters, but it's undeniable that the world's biggest franchise has a problem creating three-dimensional figures, not just female but overall. Luckily, not all is lost, for Marvel has introduced several memorable and layered females throughout its numerous movies and shows. From space warriors to scarlet witches, these characters have considerably elevated the MCU's profile, becoming fan favorites as well as critical darlings.
Peggy Carter Entertainment James Gunn's Guardians of the Galaxy remains one of the most beloved superhero movies in recent memory. Released during the Marvel Cinematic Universe's second phase in 2014, this acclaimed sci-fi adventure has since produced two sequel films, a Holiday Special on Disney+, and a series of shorts following one of the team's mascots, Groot.
While this film led to an expansive media franchise for Marvel Studios, it alone left a much bigger impact on the MCU that audiences can still see almost a decade after its premiere. Since Guardians of the Galaxy Vol. 3 is just about to wrap up the team's final tour together, now's a good time to review how the original film forever altered the MCU.
It made D-list comic book characters into A+ superheroes Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
