Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix F1 Live Stream Stranger Things Season 5 Best New Movies Most Popular Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney+ UFC Live Stream Best Movies on Disney+ Home Entertainment Features Sorry, haters: Halloween Ends is actually a good movie By Anthony Orlando Close Note: the following article contains heavy plot spoilers for Halloween Ends.
It does something new with the franchise It explores mental health in a way few horror movies attempt to do Halloween Ends pays homage to the franchise There are many great scares At long last, Laurie gets her happy ending It’s been almost two weeks since Halloween Ends premiered in theaters and on Peacock , and some audiences still feel disappointed by the conclusion to director David Gordon Green’s Halloween trilogy. Though the film delivers a gripping final showdown between Laurie Strode and Michael Myers, many audiences were put off by how the film focuses less on this conflict and more on newcomer Corey Cunningham, who becomes an agent of evil after encountering the Shape.
The audience backlash is understandable since the film they watched went against what they expected to see. Nevertheless, Halloween Ends still has many fine qualities that make it much better than people think, and audiences should acknowledge all the things that make the film a real cinematic treat.
The 7 best Hitchcockian thrillers ever, ranked Why Halloween H20: 20 Years Later is the most underrated horror sequel ever It does something new with the franchise Image used with permission by copyright holder Much like Avengers: Endgame , Halloween Ends deals with the aftermath of its villain’s violent rampage from the previous film, exploring the fear, anger, and grief left behind and building up to the villain’s return later in the movie. Though audiences have been critical of Michael not having much screen time in this film, his influence casts a large shadow over Haddonfield, making him an even darker force of nature than he was before.
Also, the fact that he’s hardly ever seen makes him that much more frightening. Like in John Carpenter’s original film, the suspense of waiting to see when and where he’ll show himself makes the film more unsettling for the audience. According to @SourceHalloween on Twitter , Michael has 10 minutes and 55 seconds of screen time in Halloween Ends , while in 1978’s Halloween , he has 9 minutes and 37 seconds.
Though the filmmakers could’ve just focused on Laurie’s final pursuit of Michael, this wouldn’t have been that interesting, as this story has been done many times before. In order for a reboot to justify its existence, it has to bring something fresh to the franchise with something new to say. And so, Halloween Ends shows how Michael’s evil can spread to other people and take a new shape. With the citizens of Haddonfield still reeling from Michael’s last massacre and the Boogeyman nowhere to be seen, they all redirect their rage and malice toward an easy target: Corey Cunningham.
After accidentally killing a boy he was babysitting on Halloween night, Corey becomes an outcast in Haddonfield, as the townspeople see him as a sadistic murderer like Michael Myers when he is just a lonely and misunderstood young man. Eventually, the people’s constant abuse and mistreatment of Corey cause him to become a vengeful killer. As a result, Corey’s descent into evil shows how any person, even someone as seemingly “normal” as Corey, can end up becoming like Michael given the right set of circumstances.
It explores mental health in a way few horror movies attempt to do Universal The Halloween franchise, specifically Michael Myers, has contributed to society’s stigma toward mental illness with its frightening depiction of a mentally ill killer.
Halloween Ends brings a more progressive portrayal of the subject by exploring the humanity of the characters who have mental health problems following Michael’s murder sprees.
Throughout the new Halloween trilogy, Laurie struggles with alcoholism and PTSD following her traumatic encounter with Michael as a teenager. However, Halloween Ends shows Laurie is now sober and trying to live a life not dominated by her trauma. Laurie even writes a memoir about his experiences with Michael as part of her healing process.
Despite this, Laurie does become fixated on Michael once again as she notices the darkness inside Corey. Her worries are proven correct, but she falls back down a rabbit hole of obsession and relapses into drinking, making her fake suicide attempt much more believable to the audience. All in all, Laurie’s struggles in the movie show how trauma and grief don’t just vanish, and they can continue to follow someone like how Michael stalks his victims.
Likewise, the way the film explores the misery that Michael left in Haddonfield invokes troubling memories of the COVID-19 pandemic, which was a difficult time for many people’s mental health. Laurie even claims that the people of Haddonfield “descended into a plague of grief, of blame, of paranoia” after Michael’s massacre, and the suffering he caused “became an infection passing on to people who never even crossed his path.” But in spite of how the people of Haddonfield demonize Michael and liken him to a supernatural plague, once Laurie takes off his mask at the end of the film, she acknowledges that this so-called Boogeyman is still just a man inside. There’s nothing supernatural or scary about him anymore; he’s just a now-physically helpless human just like the rest of them.
Halloween Ends pays homage to the franchise Image used with permission by copyright holder Like Green’s previous films, Halloween Ends continues to display a fond love for the entire franchise, including its black sheep film, Season of the Witch.
 Specifically, the opening title sequence of Green’s third film uses a blue font instead of an orange one, just like in Season of the Witch.
 In hindsight, how this new film referenced such a controversial movie implies that the story wouldn’t be the one fans expected to watch and that the filmmakers knew it would be just as divisive.
Likewise, Halloween Ends replicates multiple shots from Carpenter’s first film, such as when an exhausted Laurie rests her head against a doorway and Michael impales one of his victims to a wall and stares at it. Corey even recreates the iconic image of Michael looking down from a balcony while holding a knife, with Laurie later shooting Corey like Dr. Loomis shot Michael in the original film. Fans may say the filmmakers were unfit to reboot Halloween , but it’s obvious from tributes like this that the entire trilogy, including the finale, was a labor of love for the franchise.
There are many great scares Image used with permission by copyright holder Another thing the movie excels at is delivering frightening moments to audiences.
Halloween End s presents a particularly horrifying moment in its opening scene when Corey accidentally kills Jeremy by kicking him over a balcony. While watching a child die on-screen is more than scary enough, the fact that someone besides Michael Myers killed a young boy in this film makes this moment especially shocking.
Likewise, the filmmakers continue to present many creative and gory kills like the ones seen in the previous two films. For example, after Willy the Kid insults Corey and Allyson, Corey doesn’t just get revenge on him by smashing his face into a desk; he delivers an extra bit of karma to the radio DJ by cutting off his tongue, which lands on a spinning record and interrupts the music playing. It’s a brutal but darkly comedic moment that shows how the filmmakers know how to create some truly unique scares.
At long last, Laurie gets her happy ending Image used with permission by copyright holder After watching Michael Myers return to terrorize everyone around him many times across many films, audiences saw Halloween Ends bring the best conclusion to the franchise by ending Michael’s reign of terror once and for all. Since his body was destroyed in an industrial shredder at the end of the film, there is no chance of him returning or for any writers to retcon his death. The Shape is gone.
Thus, the people of Haddonfield finally gain some closure and can move on to a brighter future. Allyson makes amends with Laurie and leaves Haddonfield to live her own life, while the latter finishes her memoir and finds new love in Deputy Hawkins. These characters endured so much suffering throughout the franchise, so it’s nice to see Laurie and Allyson finally achieve the happiness that they deserve.
Halloween Ends is currently playing in theaters and streaming on Peacock.
Editors' Recommendations The Halloween franchise should have ended 25 years ago with Halloween H20: 20 Years Later Halloween Ends ending explained Jamie Lee Curtis says goodbye to Laurie Strode in Halloween Ends featurette Features Entertainment November has been a great month for movies at Netflix, with the premiere of David Fincher's The Killer, and recent box office hits like Insidious: The Red Door and Spider-Man: Across the Spider-Verse. This week, the new additions include The Impossible, a 2012 survival thriller that has already landed on the list of the 10 most popular movies on Netflix. For younger viewers, Minions is also heating up the charts despite the pending departure of the other films in the franchise at the end of the month.
There's only one holiday weekend left in November, so what's the best way to stay on top of everything new on Netflix? Why, we are, of course. Our list of the best movies on Netflix right now is updated every Friday, even on holiday weekends, so you can easily find something for every movie lover in your life.
Entertainment Summer is long over, and the fall season is in full swing. It's now late 2023, and just about everyone is subscribed to Netflix and Hulu. But would you be surprised if I told you one of the most underrated streaming services around is Tubi? The upstart streamer has tons of new and old TV shows from every decade and every genre imaginable. Want to watch the buzziest series that aired on Max? Tubi has it. Are you feeling nostalgic about that old movie or cartoon you used to watch as a kid in the '80s or '90s? Chances are, Tubi has it.
Tubi has so much content that it can be hard to choose which shows and films are worth your time. Digital Trends is here to help you sort out which ones are worth watching. Even though the streaming service is free, time is valuable, and no one wants to waste it watching subpar content.
Entertainment Rather than waiting for the Thanksgiving holiday weekend, Apple TV+ and Netflix dropped two of their biggest shows of the fall this week. Netflix's The Crown kicked off its sixth and final season with four new episodes, while the Apple TV+ Godzilla-adjacent series Monarch: Legacy of Monster, dropped its first two episodes this week, with new episodes arriving weekly thereafter. Also this week, Scott Pilgrim Takes Off hits Netflix, while Max gets in on the act this week by premiering the second season of Julia.
Netflix, Amazon Prime Video, Hulu, Max, Apple TV+, Disney+, Paramount+, and Peacock still have new shows coming for the rest of November, including a handful arriving next week. But if you've been thinking about cutting back on your streaming bill, then perhaps you should consider signing up for the ad-supported tiers. In the meantime, keep reading for our weekly roundup of the best new shows to stream.
When you're done here, check out the best new movies to stream this week, as well as the best shows on Netflix, best shows on Hulu, best shows on Amazon Prime Video, and best shows on Disney+.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
