Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix F1 Live Stream Stranger Things Season 5 Best New Movies Most Popular Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney+ UFC Live Stream Best Movies on Disney+ Home Entertainment Reviews Oppenheimer review: Christopher Nolan’s staggering atomic opus By A.A. Dowd Close The gripping procedural thrust of Nolan's storytelling The staggering 70mm imagery Cillian Murphy's grandly enigmatic performance The love stories aren't as engaging There are a few moldy biopic conventions The last hour is a strange gear shift The most chilling scene in Christopher Nolan ‘s immense and haunting new three-hour drama, Oppenheimer , is the one where a group of men finalizes plans to drop the atomic bomb on Hiroshima and Nagasaki. By now, we’ve all heard the defenses of this abhorrent decision: how it ended the war; how it was the only way to get through to the Japanese; how, by the math of projected casualties, it may actually have saved lives. Yet we’ve never heard the decision rationalized so calmly by those making it, as though it were a matter of mere accounting, debated with hands un-wringed and brows unfurrowed. Eventually, one of the men casually rejects Kyoto as a potential target, sparing its thousands of civilians — and dooming thousands more — because the city held “cultural meaning to the Japanese.” Also, he once honeymooned there.
More than just the cold calculus of it all, what makes the conversation so disturbing is how it’s staged. These men, these destroyers of worlds, convene not in some ceremonial war room but in a small, cramped office, politely exchanging words from their perches on couches and chairs. And Nolan doesn’t particularly emphasize the significance of the scene. It arrives without fanfare or crescendo, not at the beginning or the end of the movie, not as a centerpiece, but as just another item on the timeline of events, the unbroken series of causes and effects the writer-director methodically traces.
5 sci-fi movies on Paramount+ that are perfect to watch in the summer Where to watch Oppenheimer in 70mm IMAX 7 best performances in Christopher Nolan’s movies, ranked Oppenheimer , an epic of creation, destruction, hubris, and lots of heady talk , proceeds with the relentless logic of a chain reaction. If you wanted to be cute, you could say it moves in particles and waves, as a fluid flood of atomized history, each scene flowing unstoppably into the next. Though the film marks Nolan’s first foray into the generally unremarkable field of biographical drama, it’s every bit as propulsive as his superhero and science-fiction movies. This time, there’s a particular moral dimension to the momentum: In its forever-churning montage, Oppenheimer evokes the unstoppable forward rush of scientific advance. That the film scarcely pauses for breath is an expression of its subject’s dedicated pursuit of how , unhindered by questions of if until it’s much too late.
Robert Downey Jr. and Cillian Murphy in Oppenheimer Image via Universal Pictures The script covers a significant stretch of milestones in the life of J. Robert Oppenheimer (Cillian Murphy), from his 1920s youth as a promising, rebellious university student —his vindictive near-poisoning of a professor is an ominous early hint of how his brilliance can and will be weaponized — to his 1960s award-ceremony dotage as the revered Father of the Atomic Bomb. The bulk of the drama happens in between, on a helix of linked dilemmas: the race against the Nazis to develop the bomb and the way Oppenheimer’s almost casual interest in socialist politics threatened his influence.
Nolan, famed tinkerer of time, naturally offers a less than linear path through this dense 20th-century dossier. He has structured Oppenheimer like an Aaron Sorkin courtroom drama, only way knottier, weaving around two separate hearings — one a closed-door inquisition shot in full color, another a very public deposition shot in rich black-and-white. The film, as chronologically sophisticated as The Prestige , weaves in and out of these different chapters in Oppenheimer’s career; only those who have read the source material, the biography American Prometheus , might correctly ballpark the year at every juncture. At one point, Nolan takes us inside a flashback within a flashback within a testimony. Eventually, he brings the parallel timelines together.
There are elements familiar to the Great Man biopic. Nolan illustrates Oppenheimer’s blooming inspiration as flashes of chemical process — a more visually pleasing version of the disembodied grids of digits A Beautiful Mind deployed to the same end. The film also drifts periodically into Oppenheimer’s personal life, specifically the love triangle he forged with his wife, biologist Kitty (Emily Blunt), and his mistress, psychiatrist Jean Tatlock (Florence Pugh). Though it inspires the first sex scenes of Nolan’s filmography, including one that eccentrically repurposes the man’s famous quoting of Hindu scripture as foreplay, this material won’t dissuade those who insist that the filmmaker brings a chilly touch to matters of the human heart.
Certainly, he seems more engaged with the logistics of the Manhattan Project, which is depicted in Oppenheimer as a marshaling of conflicting personalities and grievances and skillsets. Can Nolan relate? At times, the Los Alamos Laboratory, constructed in the New Mexico desert, resembles nothing so much as a giant film set. Oppenheimer, director of a different sort, flits from department to department, city to city, circumventing jurisdictions, matching his team of big brains and bigger egos to different tasks. Nolan has, of course, assembled his own dream team, and a rather staggering cast list of famous faces to fill out even the minor roles. They’re more particles forming the waves of this dark vision, this monument to an experiment in death.
The nucleus of the movie is Murphy, in a performance of grand mystery and calculation. The actor is gaunt and iconic under a fedora. His sunken cheeks express the inward depression of Oppenheimer’s soul. His eyes blaze like the blue flames of an explosion, alternately conveying curiosity, ambition, and bottomless guilt. He is a mess of contradictions: dark but witty, thoughtful but arrogant, an introverted big thinker who becomes a rock star in magazines and at podiums, at once architect and mere instrument of human destiny. Nolan drinks all this in, through close-ups of sumptuous 65mm, shot on IMAX cameras. Not since The Master , perhaps, has a filmmaker used the large gauge to such intimate effect, making a vast canvas from one man’s troubled features.
Cillian Murphy in Oppenheimer Universal Pictures No screen may be big enough for Oppenheimer ‘s centerpiece attraction, the climax of all that feverish research, the desert test that cleaved history in half. Nolan recreated the explosion for real, sans the nuclear material, and it’s an awe-inspiring practical effect: an inferno of blinding light and eerie silence, chased by the deafening roar of the world’s loudest starting gun. It’s also the only moment of traditional spectacle in a $100 million blockbuster of middle-aged men debating quantum physics in drab rooms.
We never directly witness the horrific results of Oppenheimer’s achievement. There’s a queasy scene of moral revulsion, as the scientist addresses his team in the aftermath of victory, swallowing his growing unease, the frame literally quivering with the obscenity of the celebration. But Nolan does not take us to ground zero, to the before or after of the cities we leveled. It’s a strategic omission, an absence with purpose; leaving all that death and destruction unseen reflects the blinkered perspective of these men, making the theoretical actual while divorced from the consequences of their anti-human folly. The tragedy must happen offscreen.
The last hour of Oppenheimer will likely prove divisive. Rather than dwell on his subject’s ballooning sense of responsibility, Nolan gradually pulls together the dangling threads of those two parallel hearings, redirecting his focus to Oppenheimer’s waning stature in D.C., the status of his security clearance during the Red Scare, and his complicated relationship with Lewis Strauss (Robert Downey Jr., liberating himself from the snark, but not the arrogance, of Tony Stark ). It’s complex, cleverly orchestrated political theater … which can’t help but seem insignificant compared to the matter of world-reshaping, world-collapsing power Oppenheimer unleashed. Who cares about Beltway infighting when there are mushroom clouds sprouting on the horizon? Maybe that’s part of the point Nolan is making, though. Oppenheimer’s feat of science was a realization of the inconceivable — an event of unprecedented enormity, by all definitions of the word. Yet a decade later, it had already been rolled into the standard business and grudges of politics. Oppenheimer changed the world forever, but he couldn’t change Washington. And in the end, his terrible invention fell into the hands of people too indifferent to its power. In the opus of Oppenheimer, Nolan finds a dark vision of history as men gathered in small rooms, trifling with forces beyond their existential pay grade.
Oppenheimer opens in theaters everywhere Friday, July 21. F or more of A.A. Dowd’s writing, please visit his Authory page.
Editors' Recommendations 3 best dramas of 2023 so far 5 Cillian Murphy movies and TV shows to stream if you liked Oppenheimer 7 obscure sci-fi movies from the 2000s you need to watch now 7 nuclear war movies like Christopher Nolan’s Oppenheimer you should watch All of Christopher Nolan’s movies, ranked Product Reviews Entertainment The release of Christopher Nolan's Oppenheimer is near, and it's one of the most highly anticipated blockbusters of 2023. This sprawling biopic tells the story of J. Robert Oppenheimer as he and his team of scientists race against the clock to build the atomic bomb that would help the Allied forces win World War II.
Audiences know they will never be the same after watching this, so to help them prepare for this cinematic experience, here's a list of the top 10 facts about Oppenheimer.
Nolan shot this film with IMAX and Panavision cameras Entertainment This weekend is one of the most-anticipated box-office showdowns in years as Christopher Nolan's Oppenheimer opens against the live-action Barbie movie. And not even an atomic bomb is going to prevent Barbie's pink apocalypse from reigning supreme. But serious movie fans and Nolan die-hards have already positioned Oppenheimer to be a strong #2.
Frequent Nolan collaborator Cillian Murphy plays J. Robert Oppenheimer, the man they call "the father of the atomic bomb." And the stars really lined up to work with Nolan in this movie. Emily Blunt co-stars as Katherine "Kitty" Oppenheimer, with Matt Damon as Leslie Groves, Robert Downey Jr. as Lewis Strauss, Florence Pugh as Jean Tatlock, Josh Hartnett as Ernest Lawrence, Casey Affleck as Boris Pash, Rami Malek as David Hill, Kenneth Branagh as Niels Bohr, Benny Safdie as Edward Teller, and Matthew Modine as Vannevar Bush.
Entertainment No one does spectacle like Christopher Nolan. The 52-year-old is one of the few filmmakers whose name alone can sell a movie. Over two decades, Nolan has perfectly balanced critically acclaimed films and commercially successful projects. From the indies (Following and Memento) and psychological thrillers (Insomnia and The Prestige) to comic book adaptions (The Dark Knight trilogy) and mind-bending epics (Inception and Interstellar), Nolan continues to create films that feel special and have a "can't miss" appeal.
Nolan's 12th film, Oppenheimer, is scheduled for release on July 21. Before experiencing the WWII biopic about the "father of the atomic bond," revisit Nolan's previous 11 films. Most of them are available on streaming services. However, there are a handful that must be purchased or rented.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
