Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix F1 Live Stream Stranger Things Season 5 Best New Movies Most Popular Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney+ UFC Live Stream Best Movies on Disney+ Home Entertainment News Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Reality is an illusion in the first trailer for Awareness By Blair Marnell Close October won’t be all horror movies on Amazon Prime Video.
 As you can see in the first trailer for the Spanish sci-fi film Awareness , the upcoming Prime Video original movie seems to be mixing the tone of the original Matrix with Jumper , the long-forgotten 2008 superhero film starring Hayden Christensen. But some of that may be misdirection, as the film promises that reality itself is an illusion.
Carlos Scholz headlines the film as Ian, a teenager who has been on the run with his father for as long as he can remember. For lack of a better description, Ian has the superhuman ability to place illusions in the minds of other people. And that’s a power worth killing for. After years of being careful not to expose his abilities in public, Ian has broken his own rule. Now, the enigmatic secret agency that has pursued him his entire life is right on his heels.
Amazon Prime Video However, Ian soon finds that his new situation is more complicated than he initially suspected. He’s not the only one with powers in this world, and he is inadvertently in the middle of a much larger conflict between two factions. The words good and evil may not apply to the opposing sides in this battle, but both factions want Ian under their control. Ian is laso forced to face the fact that his entire life to this point has been a lie, and he has no idea who he can trust.
Money Heist ‘s Pedro Alonso co-stars in the film alongside María Pedraza, Lela Loren, and Óscar Jaenada.
You probably didn’t watch the most underrated crime thriller of the 2010s. Here’s why you should see it now 3 action movies on Prime Video you need to watch in November Spielberg and Hanks revisit World War II in Masters of the Air’s first trailer Prime Video will premiere Awareness on October 11.
Editors' Recommendations The best movies on Amazon Prime Video (November 2023) 3 dramas on Prime Video you need to watch in November Upload season 3’s ending, explained 3 sci-fi movies on Prime Video you need to watch in November Spotify Premium adds 200,000 free audiobooks for U.S. subscribers Amazon Amazon Prime Video Streaming Services Tech News Entertainment There’s so much going on during the holiday season, from Thanksgiving prep to buying holiday gifts and gearing up for the end of the year. So, when you have time to sit, relax, and watch a movie, you probably want something lighthearted and fun. That’s where comedies come in.
There are three comedies on Prime Video you need to watch in November that you probably didn’t even know were available as part of your standard Amazon Prime subscription. Two of them are classics from the '80s and '90s that are must-watches if you've never seen them -- and even if you have. The third is a stand-up special from one of the best comedians of his generation.
Mars Attacks! (1996) Mars Attacks! (1996) Official Trailer #1 - Jack Nicholson, Pierce Brosnan Sci-Fi Comedy Entertainment The holiday season is the perfect time for rom-coms. You can cozy up under a warm blanket with a hot tea, coffee, or cocoa -- or even a comforting glass of wine - and enjoy a sappy, funny flick on your own or with a loved one. You might even want to throw a rom-com party and invite some friends to share in the spirit.
There are lots of rom-coms worth watching, and these three rom-coms on Prime Video you need to watch in November include an old classic, an Adam Sandler favorite, and a new holiday-themed movie starring Robbie Amell and Leighton Meester that has Hallmark movie vibes written all over it. Choose from these or the best rom-coms on Amazon Prime Video right now.
EXmas (2023) EXmas | All New Movie | Coming Nov 17 Entertainment Chances are if you have children, they have probably started to watch some of the classic, old sitcoms and comedy series you watched as a kid, from Friends to Fresh Prince of Bel-Air. Many of these are easily accessible via streaming services so you can watch and rewatch to your heart’s content. There are also plenty of new comedies coming out that are worth exploring, even foreign language series with subtitles or dubbing.
When it comes to TV comedies on Prime Video that you need to watch in November, there are many from which to choose. But we have highlighted three that are especially intriguing, for different reasons.
Killer Coaster Killer Coaster - BANDE-ANNONCE | Prime Video Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
