Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix F1 Live Stream Stranger Things Season 5 Best New Movies Most Popular Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney+ UFC Live Stream Best Movies on Disney+ Home Entertainment Reviews Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Tár review: Cate Blanchett soars in Todd Field’s ambitious new drama By Alex Welch Close “Had she said no, the film would never have seen the light of day,” director Todd Field said in a statement about his ambitious new drama, Tár.
 He was, of course, talking about the film’s star, Cate Blanchett , whose reputation as one of Hollywood’s greatest living actresses certainly precedes her at this point. Despite that fact, it would be easy to initially shrug off Field’s comment as nothing more than a pandering or superficial remark. After all, what director wouldn’t say that about the lead star of their film, especially someone of Blanchett’s caliber? Having seen Tár , though, the truth of Field’s comment is undeniably clear. In order for it to cast any kind of spell, Tár requires a performer with Blanchett’s charismatic, towering presence. It demands someone who can not only disappear into a character, but who can do so and still be able to command every scene partner who has the misfortune of being pitted against her. Blanchett does that and more in Tár.
Not since she stood outside Howard Hughes’ projection room in The Aviator has Blanchett so deeply sunk herself into the skin of one of her characters, and not since Blue Jasmine has she so thoroughly and deliciously chewed up and spit out the very film in which she stars. Her performance here might be the best she’s ever given, and even if Tár feels more substantial as a character study than it does as a piece of social commentary, its merits are evident in every flick of the wrist and verbal dismantling that Blanchett delivers as its overly dignified, eponymous composer.
Courtesy of Focus Features Contrary to what that latter comment suggests, Tár is by no means a straightforward film. Not only do its first 10 minutes revolve entirely around a public conversation between Blanchett’s accomplished composer, Lydia Tár, and real-life New Yorker writer Adam Gopnik, but it moves at such a steady, measured pace that it becomes impossible to predict the trajectory of its story until the landing is already underway. Anyone looking for a simple structure in Field’s script will come up empty-handed.
Blonde review: a striking and tough Marilyn Monroe biopic Who Invited Them review: mind games, murder, and mayhem Spin Me Round review: a forgettable vacation comedy The film begins with Blanchett’s Lydia very much on top of the world. Having already proven herself as one of the world’s most formidable and inspiring composers, she’s not only on the verge of releasing a new memoir (appropriately titled Tár on Tár ), but she’s beginning rehearsals for a performance of Gustav Mahler’s Symphony No. 5, which has eluded her throughout her entire career. The film’s opening conversation between Gopnik and Blanchett is, therefore, an effective, extremely tongue-in-cheek way for Tár to establish both Lydia’s accomplishments and her standing within her field.
From there, Field spends the bulk of Tár ’s formidable 158-minute runtime following Lydia as she prepares for her and her German orchestra’s performance of Mahler’s composition. Along the way, we’re introduced to the most important figures in Lydia’s life, including her wife .Sharon (Nina Hoss). and her assistant. Francesca (Noémie Merlant), as well as Olga Metkina (Sophie Kauer), the blunt young Russian cellist who catches Lydia’s eye early on in the film. Through her interactions with these characters and their rehearsals together, Field slowly but surely plants the seeds for Tár ’s surprising yet inevitable third-act turn.
Courtesy of Focus Features The fewer details that are given about Tár ’s conclusion, including its memorably acidic final shot, the better. However, Field does work early on to fill Tár with a sense of slow, impending doom, and he employs a number of simple but effective techniques in order to do so. From the ominous shots of someone watching Blanchett’s Lydia from afar to the array of quiet noises that constantly catch her attention, Field gives his protagonist plenty of reasons to believe that someone — or something — is constantly standing right behind her.
The director also makes great use of Berlin’s urban sprawl. In one sequence, Lydia searches, hopelessly, in a public park for the source of one woman’s relentless screaming, while another sees her delve into the flooded halls of an abandoned, underground school. The latter sequence is when the shades of horror present in Tár come all the way to the forefront, and it leaves a disquieting mark that neither the film nor Blanchett’s Lydia is ever able to truly shake. Its sudden, bone-crunching conclusion also serves, in a way, as a perfect lead-in to Tár ’s uncompromising final third, which sees Blanchett’s confident composer pay for her rampant arrogance and abuses of power in as modern a way as possible.
Unfortunately, as timely as Tár’s final moments are, they don’t quite justify the film’s 2-and-a-half-hour runtime. For a film that feels, at times, as weighty and metaphysical as anything else you’ll see this year, it’s undeniably odd to see it arrive at the decisive, straightforward conclusion that it does. In the end, there’s an unavoidable sense of disconnect between the nuanced, abstract beast that Tár is throughout so much of its runtime and the thesis on cancel culture and #MeToo that it ends up turning into.
Courtesy of Focus Features Part of that disconnect is the result of the operatic, muscular visual style that Field brings to Tár.
 Here, Field fully embraces the kind of widescreen aesthetic that can make every room and environmentthat Blanchett’s Lydia moves through feel massive and open. The director’s use of long, unbroken takes also allows him to highlight Blanchett’s own inherent magnetism. By cutting as little as possible whenever his star is on-screen, Field is able to present Lydia’s considerably commanding presence as nakedly — and, therefore, powerfully — as possible.
This technique gives Blanchett the chance to dominate a film in a way that very few actors are ever allowed to, and she doesn’t let it pass her by. Even in the moments when Lydia’s grasp on her situation is starting to slip, Blanchett’s vise-like grip over Tár is ever-present. The film is, without question, the kind of one-woman show in which very few other performers are given the chance to shine. In the case of Tár , the only other actor who manages to make much of an impression is Hoss, whose quiet performance as Lydia’s vulnerable but wiser-than-she-lets-on wife emerges as the perfect counterweight to Blanchett’s ferocious lead turn.
It’s Blanchett’s performance that makes the biggest and most impactful impression in Tár , though. Her work here manages to bring a broader appeal to a film with interests and references so niche that it might have otherwise felt like too much of an inside joke to make any kind of a lasting mark. Whether or not Blanchett’s performance is powerful enough to truly wrangle together all of Tár ’s ideas into one compelling piece is another matter altogether. What she and Field have achieved here is certainly worth applauding, but Tár ’s highs also feel too compelling and considered for it to devolve into the cancel culture-focused treaty on the toxicity of power that it ultimately becomes. Then again, maybe that’s the whole point.
Tár hits theaters in New York and Los Angeles on Friday, October 7. It will expand nationwide throughout the month.
Editors' Recommendations God’s Creatures review: an overly restrained Irish drama See How They Run review: a charming but slight whodunit The Invitation review: All bark, no bite The Forgiven review: A familiar journey worth making Flux Gourmet review: A surreal comedy that’s a test of taste Entertainment Good Luck to You, Leo Grande is not a film about girl meets boy, but rather, girl hires boy. The new film from director Sophie Hyde and writer Katy Brand depicts several pivotal, turbulent meetings between a middle-aged woman (played by Emma Thompson) and a young, attractive male escort (played by Daryl McCormack). Its structure and contained setting — nearly all of the film takes place in one hotel room — gives Good Luck to You, Leo Grande the pace and scope of a stage play.
In fact, the film’s script lends itself to the stage so well that it’s nearly impossible not to be reminded of the theater while watching Good Luck to You, Leo Grande. That’s both a good and bad thing. On the one hand, its limited scope allows Good Luck to You, Leo Grande to feel claustrophobic in a way that helps elevate some of its more dramatic moments and makes it easier to become engrossed in the conversations between its two leads. On the other hand, the film never manages to achieve the same level of intimacy that a stage production of Brand’s script might have, which lessens the impact of its more sensual moments.
Entertainment Cha Cha Real Smooth is one of the most open-hearted films you’re likely to see this year. To those who were lucky enough to see Shithouse, the first film from writer/director/star Cooper Raiff, that won’t come as much of a surprise. Raiff’s feature debut boasted the same vulnerable, proudly unashamed-to-cry attitude that’s present throughout all of Cha Cha Real Smooth. But while a lot of attention has been given to how willing Raiff is to wear his heart on his sleeve, it’d be a disservice to both Cha Cha Real Smooth and its predecessor to refer to them simply as “nice” films.
In Shithouse, Raiff deftly navigated one college freshman’s feelings of loneliness and uncertainty as he struggled to adjust to a life away from home. In Cha Cha Real Smooth, Raiff has fast-forwarded the clock, turning his attention to a young man (played, once again, by himself) who is in the midst of trying to carve out a new life for himself after college. Both films grapple with the kind of confusing emotions that bubble to the surface whenever one chapter of a person’s life ends, and while Raiff brings a heightened level of sensitivity to his characters' personal issues, he doesn’t shy away from the messiness of their inner lives.
Entertainment In 2019, Adam Sandler proved he still has what it takes to be one of Hollywood’s most versatile and charismatic performers with his performance in the Safdie Brothers’ adrenaline-fueled Uncut Gems. Not since 2002’s Punch-Drunk Love had Sandler played a character so different from his usual goofball archetype, and he earned some well-deserved acclaim for his turn as the film's self-destructive lead. But Uncut Gems did more than just reaffirm Sandler’s status as a more versatile leading man than his filmography would have you believe.
The film also offered the promise of being the first entry in a new chapter in Sandler’s career, one featuring more variety and legitimately dramatic stories from the Happy Gilmore star than viewers had seen in previous years. While it remains to be seen if that’s the direction Sandler’s career will ultimately take in the coming years, Hustle certainly seems to suggest that it might be.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
