Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending in Computing: Best Dell Laptops ChatGPT Best Monitors Asus ROG Azoth Review How to delete a page in Word in 3 easy steps RTX 4080 vs RTX 4070 Ti Best Mac Apps AMD vs Intel Recall an Email in Outlook Home Computing Products Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? The Steam Deck OLED makes the original model obsolete By Jacob Roach and Jon Martindale Close Valve shocked everyone with the announcement of the Steam Deck OLED. It carries similar guts as the original model, but more storage and an enhanced screen promise a more immersive handheld gaming experience. After spending some time with the device for our Steam Deck OLED review , it’s clear this is much more than a case of just adding a nicer display.
Pricing and availability Specs Screen Performance Battery life The Steam Deck OLED is the new Steam Deck The Steam Deck OLED fixes many of the issues present with the original model , all while enhancing the experience of the original with an OLED display. This isn’t the Steam Deck 2, but it doesn’t need to be. The improvements, combined with the fact that Valve didn’t raise prices, means the Steam Deck OLED is the go-to model moving forward.
Pricing and availability Jacob Roach / Digital Trends The original Steam Deck with an LCD display launched in February 2022, with a price between $400 and $650, depending on whether you wanted extra storage, a scratch-resistant screen, and some unique digital rewards. There were originally three options — 64GB, 256GB, or 512GB of storage — but Valve will only sell the 256GB model moving forward.
What reviews didn’t say about the Steam Deck OLED Steam Deck OLED fixes the worst part of Valve’s handheld This Intel gaming handheld could give the Steam Deck a run for its money At the time of writing, the 64GB and 512GB models are still available, but Valve says it will only sell them while supplies last. All three of the original models have new, lower prices now that the Steam Deck OLED is available. You’ll spend $350, $400, or $450 for the 64GB, 256GB, or $512GB models, respectively.
The Steam Deck OLED launched on November 16, and unlike the previous version, it didn’t sell out immediately. Valve has two models available. There’s a 512GB model for $550 and a 1TB model for $650. The 1TB model also comes with an etched glass display that’s resistant to glare.
Jacob Roach / Digital Trends On top of the two models, Valve has a limited-edition version of the 1TB model with a translucent shell available for $680. This is still available at the time of writing, but it will eventually sell out.
There’s not really a bad choice here in terms of pricing. If you want a deal, the best model to buy right now is the $450 LCD version with 512GB of storage. That’s the best bang for your buck. Still, the OLED models aren’t too expensive. Valve actually kept pricing the same compared to the original prices on the LCD models, all while boosting storage space.
Specs Steam Deck LCD Steam Deck OLED Steam Deck OLED CPU AMD Zen 2 CPU 4c/8t 7nm process AMD Zen 2 CPU 4c/8t 6nm process AMD Zen 2 CPU 4c/8t 6nm process Graphics AMD APU RDNA 2 8c 7nm process AMD APU RDNA 2 8c 6nm process AMD APU RDNA 2 8c 6nm process RAM 16GB LPDDR5 5500MHz 16GB LPDDR5 6400MHz 16GB LPDDR5 6400MHz Storage 256GB SSD 512GB SSD 1TB SSD Display 7-inch LCD, 1280×800 7.4-inch HDR OLED 7.4-inch HDR OLED Refresh Rate 60Hz 90Hz 90Hz Connections Wi-Fi 5, Bluetooth 5.0 Wi-Fi 6E, Bluetooth 5.3 Wi-Fi 6E, Bluetooth 5.3 Battery 40 Whr, 2-8 hours 50 Whr, 3-12 hours 50 Whr, 3-12 hours Weight 1.47 pounds 1.41 pounds 1.41 pounds On the surface, the Steam Deck OLED sounds like a Switch OLED-style upgrade with new display technology, but that’s not the case at all. The Steam Deck OLED is much more of a revision than its naming scheme might let on. Our initial teardown of the Steam Deck OLED revealed that Valve touched nearly every aspect of the device. This is a refresh, but it’s a big one.
There’s faster memory, support for next-generation wireless technologies like Wi-Fi 6E, and Bluetooth 5.3. The weight is down a little too, which is always welcome in a portable gaming machine.
Jacob Roach / Digital Trends One of the biggest changes, though, is in battery life. With a bigger battery and more efficient components, Valve has managed to increase overall battery life by up to 50%. It’s now claiming that in ideal circumstances, the Steam Deck can run for up to 12 hours, which is way beyond what you’d expect.
A big part of that is the redesigned APU. The Steam Deck OLED uses the same APU as the original, but it’s built on a 6nm node. That allows it to be much more efficient than the original model, which, coupled with a larger battery, leads to big improvements in battery life. It also allows the Steam Deck OLED to run a bit faster, which we’ll dig into shortly.
Screen Jacob Roach / Digital Trends The standout feature of the Steam Deck OLED is, of course, the OLED screen. Colors look stunning, and that’s due in no small part to the fact that the OLED has a slightly larger screen than the original model. It also gets much brighter, with support for HDR and a peak brightness that’s close to 1,000 nits. Those are huge specs for a handheld, making the original screen look like a toy by comparison.
The display is also 90Hz, rather than 60Hz like on the original model, which should make anything you play on it look much smoother if you can run games at a high enough frame rate to notice it. This is arguably the bigger change for gaming, as gamers are big fans of high refresh rates , and with good reason. In titles like Dead Cells where you can take advantage of the higher refresh rate, the Steam Deck OLED is a game-changer.
The original screen is passable, but just barely. It’s a 60Hz LCD display that’s happy cracking 300 nits of brightness, and it throws out all hopes of handling HDR content. It’s not offensive, but gamers looking for the most immersive experience should choose the OLED model.
Performance One unexpected benefit of the Steam Deck OLED is performance. It’s not a lot faster than the original model, but it’s still faster. You’re looking at a few frames in some games, or put another way, a performance boost in the low single digits. That jump, combined with the 90Hz screen, can still make a ton of difference.
Jacob Roach / Digital Trends Across our suite of games, the Steam Deck OLED notched the largest increase in Dying Light 2, though it managed a lead of a few frames in nearly all the titles we tested. One important game to call out here is Horizon Zero Dawn.
With the Steam Deck LCD, you were struggling to hit 60 frames per second (fps), but the Steam Deck OLED achieves that mark.
That’s largely been our experience with the Steam Deck OLED. It may only offer a few extra frames, but those frames really matter. A good example is Elden Ring.
This game runs fine on the Steam Deck LCD, but it will often drop below 30 fps when you’re out in the open world. That’s not the case on the Steam Deck OLED, where it often runs above 30 fps. The biggest boost here is consistency, with the extra power of the Steam Deck OLED pushing games over the edge.
Jacob Roach / Digital Trends The performance jump also gets the Steam Deck OLED much closer to competitive handhelds like the ROG Ally with the Z1 Extreme. When matching the resolution, you can see the Steam Deck OLED now gets within spitting distance of the ROG Ally, while the LCD version struggled to keep up.
The other big benefit for the Steam Deck OLED is the 90Hz display. Take a game like Strange Brigade as an example. It can run at close to 80 fps on the Steam Deck LCD, but you won’t actually notice that extra smoothness. In these less-demanding games, the Steam Deck OLED provides a much better experience by allowing you to actually see all of the frames that are being rendered.
Even if the Steam Deck OLED provided identical performance, it would be the winner here. The fact that it’s faster is just the cherry on top.
Battery life The Steam Deck OLED comes with a bigger battery than the original model, which combined with a more efficient APU, allows it to achieve much higher battery life. We need to put those battery life improvements in context, though.
They aren’t consistent across games, so the battery improvements range from an extra 30 minutes to several extra hours depending on what game you’re playing. In a demanding game like Diablo 4, you’ll be lucky to get 90 minutes out of the Steam Deck LCD. On the Steam Deck OLED, you’ll comfortably cross the two-hour mark before reaching for your charger.
The big improvements come in less demanding games. With the Steam Deck LCD, there’s a weird upper limit on battery life. Even in games like Dead Cells or Vampire Survivors, you won’t get more than five-and-a-half or six hours. The Steam Deck OLED massively improves here, easily offering between eight and nine hours of battery life in these less demanding games.
It was one of the first things we noticed with the Steam Deck OLED. In a run of Dead Cells, the OLED model drained about 5% of its battery in 30 minutes. On the original, you would at least drop 10% in that same time.
The Steam Deck OLED is the new Steam Deck The Steam Deck LCD (top) and Steam Deck OLED.
Giovanni Colantonio / Digital Trends It’s easy to write off the Steam Deck OLED as just a Steam Deck with a nicer screen, but it’s so much more. Improvements in performance and battery life go a huge way toward making the device feel better to use, and that’s backed up by one of the best displays you can find on a handheld.
Valve is still selling the Steam Deck LCD, but it’s best saving your pennies for the OLED model if you want the superior experience.
Editors' Recommendations The best handheld gaming PCs you can buy Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck: here’s how they compare This is the one accessory every Steam Deck owner should buy You’ll have to wait a long time for a Steam Deck 2 Asus ROG Ally Z1 vs. Z1 Extreme: don’t make the wrong choice Versus Computing The SSD upgrade you've been waiting on for the Steam Deck and ROG Ally is here. Western Digital revealed its WD_Black SN770M, which is an M.2 2230 SSD that's built specifically for handheld gaming devices.
The new drive is available in three capacities: 500GB, 1TB, and the coveted 2TB size. It's tough to find M.2 2230 SSDs for the Steam Deck, and even tougher to find them at 2TB. Up to this point, popular options have included the Sabrent Rocket and Corsair MP600. Otherwise, you'd have to stalk retailers like Newegg and Amazon to find a good deal on a Micron drive repurposed from another device.
Computing An exciting piece of gossip just dropped, and it might have something to do with the Steam Deck -- or it could be something else entirely. We're talking about a mysterious new device made by Valve that has just received radio certification from the South Korea National Radio Research Agency. Code-named "RC-V1V-1030," the product is referred to as a "low-power wireless device." What's Valve up to now? The problem is that it could be nearly anything. Aside from a Steam Deck 2, or perhaps even just a refresh to the existing console, Valve has expressed interest in making a new virtual reality (VR) gaming headset to follow up on the Valve Index. Even an updated Steam Controller fits the description. The only thing to be learned from the certification is that the device uses 5GHz Wi-Fi, which could apply to all three of those potential products.
Computing By nearly all objective measures, the ROG Ally is better than the Steam Deck. It has solid battery life, a nicer screen, more power, and Windows 11, allowing it to access a much wider library of games than the Steam Deck offers. After four months of using both devices, though, I'm fine keeping my Steam Deck.
That might surprise you, especially if you caught my ROG Ally review when I first took a look at the device nearly four months ago. I even tried replacing my desktop with the device on the strength of Asus' impressive XG Mobile. But after using the ROG Ally for just about every purpose possible, I've been picking up my Steam Deck to play games.
What you want, what you need Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
