Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Netflix Original Movies Best Comedies on Netflix Best Netflix Original Series Best Anime on Netflix Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Fantasy Movies on Netflix Home Entertainment Guides Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? 6 best TV shows you need to watch in December By Christine Persaud Close The end of the year is almost here: can you believe it’s almost 2024? As you wind things down at work, take time off to enjoy with the family, and relax, it’s the perfect time to curl up with a great show. There are plenty of new and returning shows this month that are available through all the top streaming services. Browse this list and you’re bound to find a few worth adding to your nightly viewing selection.
Slow Horses season 3 (December 1) Culprits (December 8) The Crown season 6 part 2 (December 14) Reacher season 2 (December 15) Percy Jackson and the Olympians (December 20) Letterkenny season 12 (December 25) There’s everything from dramas to comedies, a British heist series, a Canadian gem, and the end of a royal era. Have a look at these six shows you need to watch in December and pick the ones you want to dive into before the year is over.
Slow Horses season 3 (December 1) Returning for its third season, the Apple TV+ original spy thriller Slow Horses stars Gary Oldman as Jackson Lamb, the head of an MI5 division called Slough House. It’s the place where rejects are sent to spend their days instead of getting fired. The team spends most of their time pushing papers, and Jackson waits patiently, believing they’ll eventually quit out of frustration. Despite the mistakes and attitudes that got the group sent effectively to career purgatory, however, their skills make them instrumental in numerous investigations.
Everything coming to Peacock in December 2023 What’s new on Tubi in December 2023 The 50 best shows on Netflix in November 2023 There are themes of redemption combined with surly characters and doses of humor.
Slow Horses has been widely praised by critics and viewers alike for its refreshing take on an otherwise oversaturated genre.
Stream Slow Horses on Apple TV+.
Culprits (December 8) A dark and funny British heist series, Culprits is the story of a crew of criminals who plan a massive robbery. The job goes off without a hitch, and they disperse, going their separate ways, living in different parts of the world under new identities. However, when one is killed, then another, it’s clear someone knows what they did and is targeting them. But who and why? Culprits keeps you guessing about the identity of the killer, whether it’s an inside job, and who might be next to be eliminated. Creating fear, paranoia, and worry among the characters, the series flips back and forth in the timeline to provide context for the story to come. Critics have applauded the pacing, cast, and depth of the bloody, violent, exciting series, so it’s worth checking out if you crave something a bit different.
Stream Culprits on Hulu.
The Crown season 6 part 2 (December 14) The end is finally here for the long-running historical drama that chronicles the life and career of Queen Elizabeth II and the Royal Family. Different actors have portrayed pivotal characters in each season of The Crown , including Queen Elizabeth herself. Each season also features new cast members convincingly playing everyone from Margaret Thatcher to Diana, Princess of Wales. The story progresses through different decades in the Queen’s life and key moments that shaped her reign.
Season 6 takes place in the 21st century and includes the tragic death of Princess Diana, Prince William and Kate Middleton’s first meeting, and Prince Charles’ (now King Charles) wedding to Camilla Parker Bowles. The first four episodes of The Crown season 6 were released in mid-November and the story concludes with the final six.
Stream The Crown on Netflix.
Reacher season 2 (December 15) Reacher is an interpretation of the Lee Child character from the book series who was played by Tom Cruise in the movie Jack Reacher.
 Alan Ritchson returns as the title character, a former military policeman. His towering stature and tremendous fighting ability make him a force to be reckoned with. When Jack is released from prison, he enlists a team to help him investigate conspiracies and corruption in law enforcement, politics, and business.
While the first reason was based on the stories in Child’s debut novel Killing Floor , season 2 will tackle the events that occurred in the 11th book in the series, Bad Luck and Trouble.
Reacher ’s first season received positive reviews, with Ritchson being singled out for his performance as the likable yet menacing hero.
Stream Reacher on Amazon Prime Video.
Percy Jackson and the Olympians (December 20) If you or your child love the Percy Jackson books by Rick Riordan, you’ll want to check out Percy Jackson and the Olympians , a fantasy TV series based on the book series. The title character, played by Walker Scobell, is a 12-year-old demigod. When Zeus accuses him of stealing his thunderbolt , Percy has no choice but to fight back.
With eight episodes in the first season, Riordan’s involvement in the series suggests authenticity to the source material.
Percy Jackson and the Olympians marks the last appearance of the late Lance Reddick ( John Wick: Chapter 4 ), who plays Zeus. Keep an eye out for a recurring role from Megan Mullally as Percy’s strict math teacher Alecto/Ms. Dodds as well and a guest starring role from Lin-Manuel Miranda as Hermes, the messenger of the gods.
Stream Percy Jackson and the Olympians on Disney+.
Letterkenny season 12 (December 25) After a dozen seasons, the Canadian sitcom Letterkenny is finally ending. Based on the YouTube web series Letterkenny Problems , Letterkenny follows the title character, played by creator Jared Keeso, as he navigates life in a small rural town in Ontario, Canada. The residents of the town fall into four main stereotyped groups: the farmers, nicknamed the “hicks,” the out-of-towners who are members of the local ice hockey team, the drug addicts, known as “the skids,” and those who live on the First Nation reservation nearby, called “the natives.” Though there are plenty of Canadian-specific stereotypes and references, Letterkenny has managed to strike a chord with American audiences as well. Filled with one-liners, puns, and wordplay, Letterkenny is both funny and clever. The show spawned the spin-off Shoresy , also streaming on Hulu, that’s a must-watch once you’re done with this final season.
Editors' Recommendations The 10 most popular shows on Max right now The best movies on Amazon Prime Video (November 2023) The 50 best movies on Netflix right now (November 2023) The best Hulu original series right now The best movies and shows on Shudder right now (November 2023) Netflix Entertainment Amazon Prime Video has so much content to watch that’s included with your standard Amazon Prime subscription. From comedies to dramas, Amazon originals, classic network shows, blockbuster movies, and more, the options are endless.
If you’re looking for something that leans more towards the dramatic side, there are three dramas on Prime Video you need to watch in November. One is a gritty DC Comics superhero flick, one is a Tom Cruise classic, and the third is one of the most iconic films ever made.
The Batman (2022) THE BATMAN – Main Trailer Entertainment Percy Jackson and The Olympians | Teaser | Disney+ Mariah Carey has woken up from her slumber, which means the holiday season is in full swing. It's about to be December, that time of year filled with honey-glazed hams, presents no one wants, parades no one watches, and unwanted relatives. Disney+ will do its best to celebrate the season with its lineup of new and returning Disney+ shows, original movies, and season finales that are set to stream in December 2023.
Entertainment The prices of many streaming services are getting out of hand. Every major streaming service, from Netflix to Disney+, has seemingly increased monthly rates over the last year. If you want to access thousands of movies and TV shows for free, then sign up for Tubi, an ad-supported streaming service. Tubi is considered a FAST streaming service, meaning it's free to sign up and use. The only catch is that ads will run sparingly during your program.
With over 50,000 movies and TV shows, Tubi can keep you entertained for a long time. To help you find something great to watch, we curated a list of three TV shows on Tubi you should watch in November: a DC origin story, a Lovecraftian drama, and a British crime thriller.
Gotham (2014-2019) Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
