Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Shows on Disney+ Best Star Wars Movies on Disney+ Best Disney Movies on Disney+ Best Movies on Disney+ Best Kids Movies on Disney+ Home Entertainment Reviews Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? WandaVision review: Marvel channels Lost for wonderfully weird Disney+ series By Rick Marshall Close There’s a lot to like about the premiere of WandaVision , Marvel’s new Disney+ series set within the Marvel Cinematic Universe.
 Sure, it provides a new chapter in the studio’s wildly popular, interconnected superhero saga and ends a drought of MCU projects dating back to 2019, but WandaVision isn’t just any new chapter in the MCU.
Mystery machine Laugh track (and then some) Something for everyone So far, so good The new series set after the events of Avengers: Endgame is the most unexpected, fascinating project Marvel Studios has brought to the screen so far — which feels entirely appropriate after the chaotic time we’ve endured since the last MCU release.
Digital Trends got an early look at the first three episodes of WandaVision , which premieres January 15 on Disney+ and features Marvel actors Elizabeth Olsen and Paul Bettany reprising their roles as Wanda Maximoff (aka The Scarlet Witch) and Vision, respectively. Created by Jac Schaeffer (co-writer on Captain Marvel and the upcoming Black Widow ), WandaVision follows Wanda and Vision as they settle into an idyllic suburban life together, only to have their perfect existence begin to unravel in bizarre ways that suggest something sinister is afoot.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Mystery machine With WandaVision , Marvel does an impressive job of channeling the enigmatic tone and creeping dread that have elevated more than a few TV series from popular programs to pop-culture talking points.
Marvel casts Yahya Abdul-Mateen II as Wonder Man for Disney+ The Sea Beast review: Netflix channels Disney in fun monster tale Moon Knight review: Oscar Isaac shines in scariest Marvel series to date The series blends the incremental mysteries of Lost with a modern spin on the surrealism of The Prisoner , dropping Wanda and Vision into the center of a classic TV sitcom without any indication of the events that brought them from the somber conclusion of Endgame to the black-and-white, Mayberry-like community of Westview. Adding to the series’ mystery is the fact that the pair seem perfectly content in their new lives, blissfully unaware of their universe-saving past despite being in full control of their powerful abilities.
And like any good story that pits its featured characters against a reality that might not be altogether real, WandaVision takes its time in giving Wanda and Vision anything to question their new, flawless lives together. It would have been easy for Marvel to make the pair’s predicament clear from the start and then devote the rest of the miniseries to the ways they use their spectacular powers to escape whatever it is they find themselves inside, but Schaeffer and the series’ creative team wisely opt for a slow burn that draws you into the puzzling world the characters inhabit.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Laugh track (and then some) As the telekinetic, telepathic, energy-bending Scarlet Witch and the density-manipulating android Vision, Olsen and Bettany were rarely given the chance to show much range in their performances during the MCU films in which they appeared. Outside of a few tender moments in Avengers: Infinity War , the pair’s unconventional fondness for each other was something we were informed of but it was rarely given any evidence to support.
In that respect, WandaVision fills in quite a few gaps in their MCU relationship — and showcases quite a bit more of the pair’s chemistry and range.
Olsen and Bettany are surprisingly comfortable riffing off each other through one classic sitcom trope after another. Whether it’s a misunderstanding that puts the pair in danger of messing up an important dinner date or a silly turn of events that makes the town’s talent show a recipe for disaster, the pair buy into the humor of WandaVision in all the best ways, and their commitment makes the series’ dramatic moments feel more impactful.
Striking the right balance between comedy, drama, and action has always been a hallmark of Marvel’s films, and WandaVision provides ample opportunity to deliver two of the three elements in the show’s first three episodes.
Marvel Studios Something for everyone While casual fans will probably find a lot to enjoy about the series without digging too deep into Marvel mythology — particularly if they’re caught up with the MCU events leading up to WandaVision — the show also provides plenty of material for the sort of audience that loves investigating every name-drop and background object the series offers up.
Although the series premiere seems most concerned with easing you into the world Wanda and Vision inhabit, subsequent episodes don’t shy away from dropping (sometimes literally) the occasional, cryptic clue or providing a few pauseworthy background elements to ponder. By the time the credits roll on the third episode, the mysteries have piled up — but so have the elements that will spark plenty of audience speculation and theories about where the titular duo’s story is headed.
Image used with permission by copyright holder So far, so good While it’s unwise to judge a series based on just a third of the story, WandaVision is off to a great start in the first three episodes of the show’s nine-part saga. With its decision to put story before spectacle, the series feels quite a bit different from the rest of the MCU, and its willingness to take its time and leave the audience uncertain only adds to the show’s unique qualities.
We’ve seen the MCU test its boundaries in the past with films like Thor: Ragnarok and Captain America: The Winter Soldier , which filtered Marvel stories through the lens of new genres, but nothing has taken the MCU as far into new territory as WandaVision.
 An enigma wrapped in a riddle and covered in a superhero’s cape, WandaVision is the sort of project that feels like something new and different — and maybe most importantly, risky — in a universe that rarely seems to stray too far from the formula that works.
Whether the WandaVision experiment is a success will likely depend on how well the series sticks the landing. Shows that rely on ratcheting up the mystery from episode to episode have a nasty habit of forgetting to answer any of the questions they raise in a satisfying way. There’s a long list of shows with promising early seasons, but history hasn’t been kind to projects that never deliver a way out of the narrative labyrinth they created.
At this point, though, Marvel has earned enough goodwill and trust for audiences to be optimistic about the direction in which WandaVision is headed. It’s been far too long since Marvel gave fans a new chapter of the MCU, but with WandaVision , it feels like that time was well spent.
You can watch WandaVision now on the Disney+ streaming service.
Editors' Recommendations What’s new on Disney+ in November 2023 She-Hulk: Attorney at Law review: Green is good in the MCU Shang-Chi director will produce Marvel’s Wonder Man series Hawkeye: Everything we know about Marvel’s Disney+ series Hawkeye review: Two archers, one great start for Marvel’s new series Comic Book Movies Disney+ Marvel Streaming Services Entertainment Earlier this year, WandaVision kicked of a new era of Marvel Studios original series on the Disney+ streaming service. One of the breakout characters from the series was Kathryn Hahn's Agatha Harkness, a malevolent witch who was initially introduced as Wanda and Vision's nosy neighbor, Agnes. She was memorably reintroduced as her true self alongside the "Agatha All Along" theme song that became a viral sensation. Now, Agatha may even get her own Marvel show.
Variety is reporting that Disney+ and Marvel Studios are developing a WandaVision spinoff with Hahn in the leading role. The show is described as "a dark comedy," but further details have not been revealed. WandaVision creator and head writer Jac Schaeffer is already attached to write and executive produce the project. And according to Deadline, Hahn has signed a deal with Marvel to reprise her role as Agatha in films and in Disney+ shows.
Entertainment The Marvel Cinematic Universe is an evolving saga defined as much by the stories it tells as the rules that ensure those stories unfold within the saga's established timeline. Given how successful the MCU has proven to be, it's both surprising and refreshing to see some of Marvel's latest projects toying with those well-established rules to give fans a taste of both what's in store for the future and what the MCU might look like now if past events had transpired a little differently.
After the recently-concluded Disney+ series Loki kicked open the door to a multiverse of potential Marvel adventures in the next phase of the MCU, Marvel's new animated anthology series What If? turns its focus to the past with stories exploring how the MCU would be shaped by tweaking key moments in its past. Digital Trends received an early look at the first three episodes of What If? in order to provide a review of the series and a preview of what's to come.
Entertainment After a year without any Marvel movies, Black Widow finally arrives in theaters July 9 with anticipation high and a lot riding on whether it can bring audiences back to indoor cinemas.
While it remains to be seen if Black Widow will inject some much-needed life into the pandemic-starved Hollywood box office, the film exceeds expectations with a fast-moving adventure that finally gives Scarlett Johansson's Avenger the solo chapter she deserves.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
