Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix F1 Live Stream Stranger Things Season 5 Best New Movies Most Popular Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney+ UFC Live Stream Best Movies on Disney+ Home Entertainment Features Andor shows how human and political Star Wars can be By Guillermo Kurten Close The content being added to Disney+ seems to be coming at breakneck speed. Yet, whether it’s from Marvel Studios or Lucasfilm’s Star Wars shows, treating serialized storytelling like an assembly line starts to dilute the point of “hourlong dramas” and chips away at the emotional impact that these stories should be having.
Obi-Wan Kenobi was a solid throwback romp with Ewan McGregor reprising his role as the beloved legacy character, but it suffered from surprisingly low production value and that it was painfully obvious that this was supposed to be a movie first.
The Book of Boba Fett before it also felt like abridged fan service that pulled the rug out from under its lead protagonist.
Focused on a raw, tight scale Cutting back on the fan service No melodrama necessary But now with Andor , perhaps the show that was the least demanded out of the current slate of Star Wars shows, we’ve seen the rawest, most sincere storytelling in the franchise since, well, Rogue One: A Star Wars Story.
 In its eight episodes so far, Andor hasn’t lost the forest for the trees and has homed in on telling a unique, gripping sci-fi story first and franchise marketing second.
Focused on a raw, tight scale Image used with permission by copyright holder Genres like fantasy and sci-fi can admittedly make great use of galactic threats involving several larger-than-life heroes and villains. There’s nothing inherently wrong with that narrative approach, as it’s also made for great comic book stories and movies as well, but it can certainly feel a bit oversaturated after a while.
Did Andor ruin Ahsoka, and maybe the entire Star Wars franchise, by being too good? Star Trek vs. Star Wars: which one is better in 2023? Darth Vader vs. Kylo Ren: which one is the better Star Wars villain? Maybe it’s from seeing such impossibly high stakes across several franchises, which isn’t entirely Lucasfilm’s problem, but Andor , in general, succeeds partly due to its intimate narrative scope. It’s a similar reason why watching Avengers: Infinity War and Daredevil are so exciting for their own reasons. In Andor ‘s case, the spy-thriller genre suits this scope immaculately.
In Andor , the threat of Palpatine’s Galactic Empire is certainly on the massive scale that its name suggests, but the plot itself focuses on the gritty and grassroots levels that the battle-hardened, oppressed, and even jaded have to operate on to get out from underneath its fascistic boot. It adds to the realism without forgetting that it’s a sci-fi show, and it makes Andor ‘s stakes all the better for it.
Seeing Cassian and his supporting cast around him navigating the bleak lives under the current status quo makes them feel more human and real than some of what we’ve seen under the Star Wars banner as of late. Make no mistake, seeing the grandiose clashes between good and evil space wizards with psychic powers and laser swords can be — and has been — as thrilling as that sounds on paper, but Andor offers a welcome injection of variety.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Another part of that is the political intrigue on display. The comparisons to Game of Thrones and House of the Dragon levels of bureaucratic drama can admittedly come off as bombastic, but there’s merit to it. It’s one thing to simply have political drama, but it’s another thing to make it interesting.
The prequels (mostly) suffered from the former, but Andor makes even the red tape of the Imperial hierarchy and Genevieve O’Reilly’s risky political espionage in the Galactic Senate also feel like compelling sci-fi, genuine drama, and not so detached from reality all at once.
Cutting back on the fan service Image used with permission by copyright holder In pop culture franchises like this, falling into the “fan service” trap is unfortunately easy to do given the landscape. As great as it was seeing the emotionally charged rematch between Hayden Christensen’s Darth Vader and McGregor’s Obi-Wan, that show used its touted UFC-like matchup as a crutch for a six-episode show — which still somehow managed to feel a bit too long.
Meanwhile, the concept of The Book of Boba Fett also played heavily on fan service, as it brought back a legacy character who did very little in the franchise despite the rapturous fan base around him. It was great to see the fan-favorite Temuera Morrison get to suit up again but, he was shortchanged partway through his own show by other franchise players who had little to no importance to the story. As a result, Boba Fett turned into “ The Mandalorian season 2.5″ by plugging in Din Djarin, Grogu, Luke Skywalker, and Ahsoka in what was already a pretty short season. This overshadowed Boba and left a sour taste in most viewers’ mouths.
And as praised as The Mandalorian is, even season 2 has to take some responsibility for pushing the boundaries of fan service. The cameos and supporting characters at least managed to serve Din Djarin and Grogu’s greater story, but it was the beginning of Lucasfilm taking too much from the MCU playbook. Cameos and guest-starring appearances should not be prerequisites for a good story or the main selling point for it.
That’s another reason why Andor so far looks like such a revitalization for original shows on Disney+. The conversation around the series is about the main cast at hand and what’s happening in the here and now, rather than what surprise characters are going to show up for 30 seconds or an episode.
No melodrama necessary Image used with permission by copyright holder Reading that “the writing is bad” or “the writing is good” online from fandoms is too often used as a cop-out for thoughtful praise or criticism (or as an excuse to put each other down), but Andor genuinely feels rewarding in how its story, pacing, and dialogue are fleshed out. There’s also nothing inherently wrong with a bit of melodrama.
The Lord of the Rings trilogy certainly has some flowery dialogue, but the way it’s written and how the actors perform those lines inspired by Tolkien’s work are what make it feel impactful. And, of course, the same could be said for various Star Wars projects. However, it’s nice to see a Star Wars show like Andor that doesn’t beat the audience over the head with what the characters say, do, and mean.
McGregor gave a superbly soulful showing as Obi-Wan Kenobi that fans can be proud of, but it’s a little insensitive to hear him give a rebel who suffered at Imperial hands a run-of-the-mill line about how he doesn’t truly understand what the Empire is capable of. Similarly, it isn’t necessary to hear Boba Fett wax poetic about how nobly he intends to lead the criminal underworld.
Image used with permission by copyright holder The actions of Andor ‘s characters — and the excellent cast portraying them — often speak louder than words, but boy, do their words also carry some serious weight. “Don’t you want to fight these bastards for real?” In many other shows, movies, books, games, etc., this line could’ve come off as over the top and edgy, but hearing Luthen’s sales pitch to Cassian for helping the Rebellion felt thoroughly cathartic. And even more so when Cassian answers Luthen as to how easy it is for him to steal from the empire; that the Empire couldn’t imagine “someone like me would ever get inside their house, walk their floors, spit in their food, take their gear.” Those lines alone live up to the episode’s name Reckoning and, most importantly, they feel human. And that’s why Andor has been able to break through and resonate after a string of mildly disappointing Star Wars shows on Disney+. It brings a realism and gravity to the space opera franchise that makes not only tise series a compelling watch, but points the way to a future where perhaps more Star Wars content, from movies to shows to games, can be just as vital and resonant as Andor.
The first eight episodes of Lucasfilm’s Andor are available to stream now on Disney+, with new episodes of the 12-episode season premiering every Wednesday.
Editors' Recommendations One year ago, Andor changed Star Wars forever 3 things we learned from the new trailer for Ahsoka Disney shifts release dates for Marvel movies, Star Wars films, and Avatar sequels The 7 best Star Wars vehicles ever, ranked All the things we want to see in The Mandalorian season 4 Features Sci-Fi Star Wars Entertainment I’m pretty nerdy about a lot of things: turntables, vinyl records, barbecue, Game of Thrones, and yes, Star Wars. To a fault, I can be hard to shut up once my string is pulled, and lately, much of my blathering has been focused around a couple of Star Wars TV series -- The Mandalorian and the upcoming Ahsoka, the latter of which I am super-excited for. But I’ve had a few conversations about these shows with friends recently that have been driving me nuts. The latest involved me gushing over a live-action cameo of the animated Star Wars: Rebels series character Zeb Orrelios in season 3, episode 5 of The Mandalorian. My friend exclaimed that he had no idea who Zeb was and that he'd never watched "that cartoon," and here we are.
But a couple of notes before I continue: First, I know that Star Wars: Rebels and its precursor, Star Wars: The Clone Wars, are “cartoons.” Second, I’m aware that I’m a grown man. The point is, I’m often amazed to learn that, for those and other reasons, many people have avoided these excellent animated Star Wars series -- and this is a mistake. Much of what happens in The Clone Wars and Rebels has direct ties to shows such as The Mandalorian, Obi-Wan Kenobi, The Book of Boba Fett, and especially Ahsoka, as they introduce incredible characters and crucial backstories. Do you need to watch them to know what's going on? No. You don't even need to watch every episode to get a better understanding of the live-action shows: We have great essential episode guides for Clone Wars and Rebels to set you up. But time and again I’ve been rewarded with excitement, a better understanding of characters and plotlines, and a more satisfying cathartic payoff because of watching these "cartoons." Plus, they’re just really good.
And whether you’ve just started watching The Mandalorian or are, like me, waiting eagerly for Ahsoka in August, here are a few good reasons you should take the next few months and get caught up on some of the best cartoons you’ll ever see.
Note: There are Mandalorian spoilers ahead.
Ahsoka Tano gets her due Making her live-action debut in season 2 of The Mandalorian, Ahsoka Tano began her journey as Anakin Skywalker's tenacious young Padawan, and her adventures throughout seven seasons of the animated Clone Wars made her one of the most exciting and loved Jedi characters in the Star Wars universe. Not only does she endure betrayal through Anakin's transformation into Darth Vader, but her arc connects her to the warrior Mandalorians when she helps Bo-Katan Kryze liberate the planet Mandalore from occupation. The series concludes when Darth Sidious issues Order 66, which triggered the betrayal and extermination of the Jedi, aligning the show with the film Star Wars: Episode III -- Revenge of the Sith.
Entertainment As Lucasfilm finally seems to be getting the ball rolling again for Star Wars on the theatrical front, the video game space has been showing the franchise's continued narrative strength. The latest example is Respawn Entertainment's Star Wars Jedi: Survivor. The sequel to 2019's successful Star Wars Jedi: Fallen Order fleshes out the journey of Cal Kestis (voiced by Gotham and Shameless actor Cameron Monaghan), with his story feeling every bit as worthy of a live-action series.
Shows like Dave Filoni's Ahsoka look promising given Rosario Dawson's pitch-perfect performance in season 2 of The Mandalorian and Filoni's passion for the franchise. Should Lucasfilm want more Jedi-centric storytelling on Disney+, the Star Wars Jedi games have rich characters (all hail Turgle!) and intriguing storylines that could be an ideal fit for the episodic format that made Obi-Wan Kenobi and Andor so compelling.
Entertainment In May 1977, the original Star Wars hit theaters and changed cinemas forever. And although the actual release date was May 25, 1977, fans have embraced May the Fourth as the annual Star Wars Day celebration (for obvious reasons). To celebrate this year's Star Wars Day, Spotify has something special in mind for music fans and audio book connoisseurs.
Composer John Williams' iconic Star Wars music from all nine of the main feature films is streaming under Spotify's Best of Star Wars Playlist alongside some more recent additions to the musical canon. That includes Stephen Barton and Gordy Haab's score for Star Wars Jedi: Survivor, the hit video sequel that just hit stores at the end of April. Kevin Kiner's music from Star Wars: The Clone Wars, Star Wars Rebels, and Star Wars: The Bad Batch is also featured, as is Michael Giacchino's powerful score from Rogue One: A Star Wars Story. Additionally, Spotify's Playlist for The Mandalorian now has Joseph Shirley's score from season 3 alongside Ludwig Göransson's soundtracks for the first two seasons.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
