Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Netflix Original Movies Best Comedies on Netflix Best Netflix Original Series Best Anime on Netflix Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Fantasy Movies on Netflix Home Entertainment Guides The best comedies on Netflix right now By Blair Marnell , Nick Perry and Michael Bizzaco Close It’s not hard to find a great comedy movie on Netflix.
 Unlike some other genres like sci-fi and fantasy, Netflix keeps its lineup of comedies well-stocked with some recent box-office hits, like Jennifer Lawrence’s No Hard Feelings , as well as classic titles on loan from other studios and a lot of original films. This month’s new additions include the first theatrical adaptation of The Addams Family , The Big Lebowski , and Scott Pilgrim vs. the World.
 It’s pretty hard to go wrong with those flicks.
Comedies come and go, which is why it’s important to stay glued to what’s new on Netflix.
 If you’re looking for laughs, these are the best comedies on Netflix right now.
We’ve also curated guides to the best comedies on Hulu , the best romantic comedies on Netflix , and the best rom-coms on Hulu if you’re looking for additional recommendations.
Save on everything from laptops and tablets, to coffee makers and air purifiers, and a whole host of Apple tech like iPad, Apple Watch and even the latest M3 MacBooks, as well as smart home essentials like the Amazon Echo and smart bulbs.
No Hard Feelings r 2023 The Addams Family pg-13 1991 The Big Lebowski r 1998 Scott Pilgrim vs. the World pg-13 2010 No Hard Feelings (2023) new r 104m Comedy, Romance Jennifer Lawrence, Andrew Barth Feldman, Laura Benanti Gene Stupnitsky watch on Netflix watch on Netflix What kind of woman answers a Craigslist ad promising money from wealthy parents in return for dating their awkward son? Why, that would be Jennifer Lawrence’s character in No Hard Feelings.
 Lawrence plays Maddie Barker, a woman in her early 30s who is on the verge of losing everything she has, including her home and her car.
Unfortunately for Maddie, dating 19-year-old Percy Becker (newcomer Andrew Barth Feldman) may be next to impossible. He seems impervious to her charms, and even afraid of intimacy. For Maddie, it’s just a job, but she also hasn’t thought about what will happen if Percy ever learns the reason she pursued him.
Read less The Addams Family (1991) new pg-13 102m Comedy, Fantasy Raúl Juliá, Anjelica Huston, Christopher Lloyd Barry Sonnenfeld watch on Netflix watch on Netflix In the early 1990s, movies based on TV shows didn’t tend to be very good. And yet, The Addams Family was not only great, it has a large fan base of its own thanks to Christina Ricci and the late Raul Julia. But the entire Addams family is impeccably well-cast for this revival. Gomez (Julia) and his wife, Morticia Addams (Anjelica Huston), fully embrace their macabre life, as do their kids, Wednesday (Ricci) and Pugsley (Jimmy Workman).
The only thing haunting Gomez is the loss of his brother, Fester, years ago. That’s when Addams’ shady lawyer realizes that Gordon Craven (Christopher Lloyd) looks just like Fester. A scheme is soon hatched to use Gordon to steal the family’s immense wealth. But when Gordon is instantly embraced by the Addams, he finds his loyalty torn between them and his malevolent mother.
Read less The Big Lebowski (1998) new r 117m Comedy, Crime Jeff Bridges, John Goodman, Steve Buscemi Joel Coen, Ethan Coen watch on Netflix watch on Netflix It’s a common misconception that Jeffrey “The Dude” Lebowski (Jeff Bridges) is The Big Lebowski of the film that shares his name. This is a mistake that even characters in the movie make, but Jeffrey “The Big” Lebowski (David Huddleston) is the only one of the two Lebowskis who actually has wealth and power.
When the Dude is accosted by a mobster’s enforcers over Lebowski’s debts, he is unwittingly thrown into a tangled mess that involves Lebowski’s supposedly kidnapped trophy wife, Bunny (Tara Reid), and a wide array of eccentric criminals who just won’t let the Dude enjoy his chill.
Read less Scott Pilgrim vs. the World (2010) new pg-13 113m Action, Comedy, Romance Michael Cera, Mary Elizabeth Winstead, Ellen Wong Edgar Wright watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Director Edgar Wright’s adaptation of Scott Pilgrim vs. the World is a comic book movie that plays by video game rules. We’re talking boss battles, power-ups, and even an extra life for Scott Pilgrim (Michael Cera), the leading character in Bryan Lee O’Malley’s hit graphic novel series.
Scott’s an otherwise ordinary slacker living in Canada who catches the attention of Ramona Flowers ( Final Destination franchise actress Mary Elizabeth Winstead). Scott is so taken by Ramona that he doesn’t even bother to break up with his actual girlfriend, Knives Chau (Ellen Wong), until after he pursues his next love. Too bad for Scott, because now he has to face Ramona’s seven evil exes in battle if he wants to win her heart.
Read less Hot Tub Time Machine (2010) r 101m Science Fiction, Comedy, Adventure John Cusack, Craig Robinson, Rob Corddry Steve Pink watch on Netflix watch on Netflix It’s a rare movie that has a title that gets right to the point of its high concept. There is indeed a Hot Tub Time Machine in this film, but this is more of a comedy than a sci-fi story. In the aftermath of a suicide attempt by Lou Dorchen (Rob Corddry), his friends Adam Yates (John Cusack) and Nick Webber-Agnew (Craig Robinson), decide to take him to the Colorado resort where they vacationed decades earlier. Adam’s nephew, Jacob Yates (Clark Duke), also accompanies them.
Once the group accidentally turns a hot tub into a time machine, everyone except Jacob finds themselves back in their 1986 bodies. And while the guys realize that history has to be maintained, the temptation to fix their past mistakes may prove to be too difficult to resist.
Read less Forgetting Sarah Marshall (2008) r 111m Comedy, Romance, Drama Jason Segel, Kristen Bell, Mila Kunis Nicholas Stoller watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Following a brutal breakup with his famous girlfriend, Sarah Marshall (Kristen Bell), Peter Bretter ( Shrinking ‘s Jason Segel) is emotionally bereft. And as the title of Forgetting Sarah Marshall implies, Peter finds it very difficult to get over his ex. Even when Peter goes on a solo vacation in Hawaii, he ends up at the same resort as Sarah and her new boyfriend, Aldous Snow (Russell Brand).
Peter does make an instant connection with Rachel Jansen (Mila Kunis), a clerk at the hotel. As Peter and Rachel get closer, Sarah starts to feel jealous, which may jeopardize both of their new relationships.
Read less The House Bunny (2008) pg-13 97m Romance, Comedy Anna Faris, Colin Hanks, Emma Stone Fred Wolf watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Anna Faris stars in The House Bunny as Shelly Darlingson, an aspiring Playboy centerfold who is unexpectedly evicted from the Playboy Mansion. Desperate to find a new place for herself, Shelly ends up getting hired as the new house mother of Zeta Alpha Zeta, a sorority of awkward students including Natalie Sandler (Emma Stone), Mona Rita (Kat Dennings), Harmony Bowels (Katharine McPhee), Carrie Mae Staten (Dana Goodman), and Joanne Davis (Rumer Willis).
While Shelly teaches the girls how to attract guys by appearing more superficial, she has a hard time landing Oliver Hauser (Colin Hanks), a man she really wants to impress. That’s why Shelly has a lot to learn from the Zetas as well.
Read less Fast Times at Ridgemont High (1982) r 90m Comedy Sean Penn, Jennifer Jason Leigh, Judge Reinhold Amy Heckerling watch on Netflix watch on Netflix For its time, Fast Times At Ridgemont High was considered an edgy comedy. But since it came out 41 years ago, it seems a lot more subdued by today’s standards. But it’s still one of the classic high school comedies of the 1980s, with a cast full of breakout stars including Sean Penn, Jennifer Jason Leigh, Judge Reinhold, Phoebe Cates, Forest Whitaker, and even Nicolas Cage in a minor role.
Penn’s Jeff Spicoli gets most of the film’s funny moments, but the heart of the story revolves around Mark “Rat” Ratner (Brian Backer), his best friend Mike Damone (Robert Romanus), and Mark’s crush, Stacy Hamilton (Leigh). Mark would do anything to be with Stacy, but she falls for Mike’s charms and ends up pregnant … which may end Mark’s relationship with both of them.
Read less Midnight Run (1988) r 126m Crime, Comedy, Action, Adventure Robert De Niro, Charles Grodin, Yaphet Kotto Martin Brest watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Within the context of this movie, a midnight run is supposed to be an easy assignment for bounty hunter Jack Walsh (Robert De Niro). He has five days to retrieve a nonviolent criminal accountant, Jonathan “The Duke” Mardukas (Charles Grodin), who embezzled money from mob boss Jimmy Serrano (Dennis Farina).
What Walsh fails to realize until it’s too late is that Mardukas is a high-value target for the FBI, Serrano’s men, and even a rival bounty hunter named Marvin Dorfler (John Ashton). And much to his surprise, Walsh even finds himself bonding with Mardukas during their journey. That’s one of the big reasons why Midnight Run is remembered as one of the best buddy comedies of the ’80s.
Read less The Jerk (1979) r 94m Comedy Steve Martin, Bernadette Peters, Catlin Adams Carl Reiner watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Only Murders in the Building ‘s Steve Martin finally got to headline his own film in The Jerk , which was directed by comedy legend Carl Reiner. Martin plays Navin R. Johnson, the titular jerk, but The Moron would have also been an appropriate title for this film. Navin is a true nitwit, and he embarks on a journey to Los Angeles because he believes that it’s his destiny.
Along the way, Navin inadvertently strikes it rich and forms a relationship with Marie Kimble Johnson (Bernadette Peters). However, Navin’s good fortune is fleeting, and he may lose everything that he has gained, even Marie.
Read less Fatherhood (2021) pg-13 109m Drama, Comedy Kevin Hart, Melody Hurd, Alfre Woodard Paul Weitz watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Read less The Polka King (2017) pg-13 95m Comedy Jack Black, Jenny Slate, Jason Schwartzman Maya Forbes watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Read less Between Two Ferns: The Movie (2019) r 82m Comedy Zach Galifianakis, Lauren Lapkus, Ryan Gaul Scott Aukerman watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Read less Metal Lords (2022) r 97m Comedy, Drama, Music Jaeden Martell, Isis Hainsworth, Adrian Greensmith Peter Sollett watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Read less Best comedies on Hulu Best rom-coms on Amazon Prime Best rom-coms on Hulu Best rom-coms on Netflix Vampires vs. the Bronx (2020) pg-13 86m Comedy, Horror Jaden Michael, Gerald W. Jones III, Gregory Diaz IV Oz Rodriguez watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Read less A Futile and Stupid Gesture (2018) tv-ma Comedy Will Forte, Domhnall Gleeson, Martin Mull watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Read less Monty Python and the Holy Grail (1975) pg 91m Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy Graham Chapman, John Cleese, Eric Idle, Terry Gilliam, Terry Jones, Michael Palin Terry Gilliam, Terry Jones watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Read less Dolemite Is My Name (2019) r 118m Drama, Comedy, History Eddie Murphy, Keegan-Michael Key, Mike Epps Craig Brewer watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Read less Life of Brian (1979) r 94m Comedy Graham Chapman, John Cleese, Terry Gilliam Terry Jones watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Read less Related Topics: Netflix | Hulu | Amazon Prime | More Streaming Services Can’t find what you want on Netflix? Fortunately, we’ve also rounded up the best comedies on Amazon Prime Video and the best comedies on Hulu.
Editors' Recommendations The 50 best movies on Netflix right now (November 2023) The best Hulu original series right now The 50 best anime on Hulu right now The 10 most popular movies on Netflix right now The best feel-good movies on Netflix right now Best Products Netflix Streaming Guides Streaming Services Movie images and data from: Entertainment You're going to see a lot of Christmas movies on Hulu through the end of the year. 'Tis the season for the Huludays, after all. While we'll go over your Christmas options at a later date, this month's selections of the best movies on Hulu feature a new original film, Quiz Lady, as well as A Haunting in Venice, which recently finished its theatrical run. The other prominent new additions are Jumanji: Welcome to the Jungle and the comedy biopic Driven.
Need help keeping up with everything new on Hulu? Every month, we go over the greatest films that Hulu has to offer while keeping track of what's coming and going. That's why our update of the best movies on Hulu is always current. We're here to help you plan your next movie night.
Entertainment Michael Fassbender in The Killer Netflix / Netflix Halloween is gone, Christmas movies are coming around the corner, but the best new movies to stream on Netflix, Hulu, Prime Video, Max (HBO), and other services haven't fully made the switch to Christmas. There are some high-quality additions each week, though, including some Oscar bait. We're keeping track of all of it in this weekly roundup, so you always have something new to watch.
We also have guides to the best movies on Netflix, the best movies on Hulu, the best movies on Amazon Prime Video, and the best movies on HBO.
Entertainment When you need to keep the kids occupied for a while, it's helpful to know the best kids movies on Netflix right now.
Netflix has an enormous library of kid-friendly content, including a host of original choose-your-own-adventure stories, but it's natural as a parent to want to know what your kids is watching. So, to help you find something quickly, we keep tabs on the collection every month and surface the best options here.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
