Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix F1 Live Stream Stranger Things Season 5 Best New Movies Most Popular Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney+ UFC Live Stream Best Movies on Disney+ Home Entertainment Features The 10 best Steven Spielberg movies, ranked by Rotten Tomatoes By Anthony Orlando Close Steven Spielberg is an undisputed master of cinema. He has directed many movies throughout his life, and while he has had failures with some of them (we’re looking at you, Always ), many of his films are now considered to be some of the greatest of all time.
10. Bridge of Spies (2015) – 91% 9. Jurassic Park (1993) – 92% 8. Saving Private Ryan (1998) – 94% 7. Close Encounters of the Third Kind (1977) – 94% 6. The Fabelmans (2022) – 95% 5. Raiders of the Lost Ark (1981) – 96% 4. Catch Me if You Can (2002) – 96% 3. Jaws (1975) – 97% 2. Schindler’s List (1993) – 98% 1. E.T. the Extra-Terrestrial (1982) – 99% With a filmography including sci-fi blockbusters, serious historical dramas, and globe-trotting adventures, Spielberg made his mark on multiple genres and showed his skills as a diverse storyteller. Spielberg has now directed 36 feature-length films, with the autobiographical The Fabelmans the latest in a long line of hits. The movies below have been ranked the best of the filmmaker’s illustrious career.
10. Bridge of Spies (2015) – 91% No. 12 — Tom Hanks ($31 million) in “ Bridge of Spies” (2015) This film tells the true story of lawyer James B. Donovan, who is hired to negotiate the release of Air Force pilot Francis Gary Power from the Soviet Union in exchange for convicted KGB operative Rudolf Abel, whom he defended in court a few years prior.
Indiana Jones and the perils of sequelizing Steven Spielberg The 7 best Hitchcockian thrillers ever, ranked The best Harry Potter movies, ranked by Rotten Tomatoes With a script co-written by the Coen Brothers and outstanding performances from Tom Hanks and Mark Rylance, Spielberg takes this often-overlooked moment in history and turns it into a gripping piece of cinema. It’s one of the few times Spielberg has ever done a historical thriller, and he knocks it out of the park.
9. Jurassic Park (1993) – 92% Universal While it may not be for everyone, Jurassic Park is a prime example of Spielberg’s filmmaking magic, as he captured the wonder and imagination of audiences worldwide by bringing dinosaurs to life on the big screen.
Jurassic Park may be the cinematic equivalent of an amusement park ride, but it still features a heartwarming and thought-provoking story about the dangers of trying to control nature.
This movie also revolutionized Hollywood with its use of computer-generated imagery and animatronics that still holds up 30 years later. Though many sequels have followed, none compare to the awe and majesty of this legendary blockbuster.
8. Saving Private Ryan (1998) – 94% Image used with permission by copyright holder Nothing can prepare audiences for this film, which is considered one of the best war movies ever made.
 The opening battle on Omaha Beach alone made Saving Private Ryan a horrifying landmark of cinema, capturing the brutal and disturbing chaos that actual soldiers faced on the shores of Normandy.
This film’s depiction of the war was so realistic that it triggered PTSD in veterans who fought on D-Day.
 It also inspired other storytellers in how they portrayed war and action in media, ultimately changing how many people perceive armed combat.
7. Close Encounters of the Third Kind (1977) – 94% Image used with permission by copyright holder Fresh off the success of Jaws , Spielberg sparked audiences’ imaginations with this dazzling and heartfelt depiction of humanity’s first contact with alien life. Featuring groundbreaking special effects, beautiful visuals, and a well-written story, Spielberg creates a sense of both awe and horror as Roy Neary (Richard Dreyfuss) and the other protagonists try to unravel the mystery behind the aliens’ actions.
Along with multiple other science-fiction films of the ’70s, this cinematic masterpiece helped breathe new life into the genre, making it a must-see for fans of sci-fi and cinema alike.
6. The Fabelmans (2022) – 95% Image used with permission by copyright holder Based on his own upbringing, Spielberg tells the story of a boy growing up and pursuing his dream of being a filmmaker as his parents struggle to get by, raise their family, and hold their marriage together.
It is clear that the director poured his heart and soul into portraying what is essentially his own life story and a beautiful love letter to cinema, making The Fabelmans the culmination of his long career. It may also inspire young audiences to become filmmakers themselves.
5. Raiders of the Lost Ark (1981) – 96% Paramount Pictures / Image via LucasFilm After suffering a critical failure with 1941 , Spielberg reestablished himself as a cinematic genius with this film fresh from the mind of George Lucas. In the first of many of the audiences’ adventures with Indy, the whip-cracking explorer faces off against his rival, Belloq, and the Third Reich as he tries to retrieve the long-lost Ark of the Covenant. Exciting, funny, and suspenseful, this film is perfect for those who want to enjoy and escape into a riveting adventure around the world.
4. Catch Me if You Can (2002) – 96% Image used with permission by copyright holder This film tells the probably-true story of Frank Abagnale Jr., who claims to have conned his way to millions of dollars by masquerading as a Pan Am pilot while trying to elude FBI Agent Carl Hanratty.
Leonardo DiCaprio is at his most charming as Abagnale, who sweet-talks his way through almost every obstacle in a thrilling game of cat-and-mouse. Though his actions are wrong, the audience can’t help but sympathize with him and enjoy watching him trick everyone he comes across.
3. Jaws (1975) – 97% Universal Pictures / Universal Pictures This film made Spielberg a household name, and it made millions of people afraid of swimming in the ocean. When a great white shark starts eating people off the coast of Amity Island, the chief of police, a marine biologist, and a veteran shark hunter team up to kill the beast. To say that Jaws is a horror movie is an oversimplification, as it blends many other genres together to create a thrilling adventure on the high seas.
There were so many ways this film could have gone during its troubled production, which saw the shark breaking down multiple times. Fortunately, Spielberg elevated this film by limiting the shark’s appearance on screen and using unforgettable POV shots accompanied by John Williams’s bone-chilling score.
 The film thus turned this would-be B-movie into an extraordinary and suspenseful thriller and cinema’s first summer blockbuster.
2. Schindler’s List (1993) – 98% Image used with permission by copyright holder Making a film about the Holocaust is no easy feat. Given the heavy subject matter, some wouldn’t have imagined Spielberg being the man for the job, given that he was typically known for creating family-friendly blockbusters.
However, Spielberg displays his range as a director in its horrifying and poignant depiction of one of the darkest periods in human history. Audiences won’t be able to hold back the tears while watching this film, especially its heart wrenching ending.
1. E.T. the Extra-Terrestrial (1982) – 99% Image used with permission by copyright holder The film tells the iconic tale of a 10-year-old boy who befriends an adorable little alien and tries to return him to his family.
E.T.
is filled to the brim with Spielberg’s childlike sense of love and wonder, presenting this story of alien contact as a fairy tale akin to Peter Pan.
Like some of Spielberg’s other movies, this one shows young Elliot (played by Henry Thomas, who gave one of the best child performances ever ) learning to live without his absent father, with E.T. being the imaginary friend who helps him grow. Upon release, this film usurped Star Wars as the highest-grossing film of all time and immediately established itself as a timeless classic.
Editors' Recommendations Does Jurassic Park reveal a guilty confession from Steven Spielberg? Mark Bridges on recreating Steven Spielberg’s youth in The Fabelmans The 10 most popular movies of all time, ranked by box office gross The 10 best war movies ever made Henry Thomas on E.T. turning 40, Steven Spielberg, and that notorious Atari video game Features Entertainment Love him or hate him, there's no denying Baz Luhrmann has style and panache to spare, and his films often reflect that. The Australian director rose to prominence in the early 1990s before making a name for himself with his highly stylized take on William Shakespeare's Romeo + Juliet. Now, 30 years after the premiere of his first film, Luhrmann returns with the musical biopic Elvis, starring Austin Butler and Tom Hanks.
Luhrmann, a modern-day auteur if ever there was one, is truly a one-of-a-kind director. His films are often hit-or-miss with critics -- a quick look at his Rotten Tomatoes profile will make that more than clear. However, there's plenty to love about his films, including but not limited to an uncompromising and unabashed love for his craft. Indeed, Baz Luhrmann's sensibilities might not be to everyone's tastes, but his work is a breath of fresh air in an increasingly homogenous cinematic landscape.
The Great Gatsby (2013) - 48% Entertainment Steven Spielberg's adaptation of author Michael Crichton's Jurassic Park left a longstanding legacy in Hollywood, with a sixth mainline entry hitting theaters this week in the form of Jurassic World Dominion. Dinosaurs have also long been one of the most popular aspects of the planet's history, inspiring plenty of imagination about what these ancient animals were like and how they perished.
And while there aren't as many dinosaur movies as one might think given their natural awe-inspiring appeal, there have been a few noteworthy ones over the last few decades. Whether it's the landmark original movie in the Jurassic Park franchise, a beloved animated family classic, or a fascinating BBC documentary, there's enough range in the subgenre for audiences to indulge their excitement for the upcoming movie.
Jurassic Park (1993) Entertainment If you're Canadian auteur David Cronenberg, purveyor of oozy body horror, psycho-sexual titillation, and all manner of other subversive content, it's hard to imagine better pre-release hype around your new film than numerous reports of nauseated audiences fleeing screenings. Of course, this was the Cannes Film Festival, where people enjoy walking out of movies for virtually any provocation. And the movie, Crimes of the Future, once widely reviewed, proved to be not quite as repugnant as those early reports described, despite its graphic depiction of organ removal surgery as live entertainment.
Still, the fact remains that few filmmakers alive could stir up such pre-release controversy. Even after not having made a feature film since 2014 -- and not one in this vein for several decades -- people knew exactly what they were getting into with a David Cronenberg movie. (The horrible goop mutants in the animated comedy series Rick and Morty are called Cronenbergs if that gives you some indication of the associations conjured by the man.) In celebration of the master's return to the splendidly sickening, we list his best films according to Rotten Tomatoes.
10. Scanners (1981) – 70% Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
