Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix F1 Live Stream Stranger Things Season 5 Best New Movies Most Popular Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney+ UFC Live Stream Best Movies on Disney+ Home Entertainment Features Han Solo vs. Indiana Jones: Which one is Harrison Ford’s greatest role? By Joe Allen Close Few actors have given more to popular culture than Harrison Ford. Over the course of his decades in Hollywood, Ford has starred in everything from high-minded prestige movies to some of the most well-known blockbusters in the history of movies. In that career, Harrison has given us two different all-time great blockbuster characters.
Which character is more central to the franchise? Which character has a better pop culture legacy? Which character is smarter? Which character has a better crew supporting him? Which character presents more acting challenges? Which is Harrison Ford’s greatest role: Han Solo or Indiana Jones? First, he was Han Solo in the Star Wars films , and then, a few years later, he introduced us to Indiana Jones. Both franchises have had long legacies that extended all the way into the present, but the question of which character is Ford’s greatest role is still hotly debated. Thankfully, we’ve come up with a foolproof way to arrive at an answer.
Which character is more central to the franchise? Image used with permission by copyright holder Perhaps the first method we should use for considering which role is which character is more essential to the movies he’s featured in. Han Solo is critical to what Star Wars is. Without him, there would be no skeptic or cynic in this story, no regular guy who is thrown into a world beyond his imagination.
Indiana Jones and the Dial of Destiny’s ending, explained Indy faces his destiny in new Indiana Jones 5 trailer How Indiana Jones and the Last Crusade saved my life In spite of that central role, though, Han is not the hero of that franchise. Indiana Jones has much of the same wit that Han does, but he’s the essential character of his franchise. Without him, the franchise wouldn’t even exist.
Winner: Indiana Jones Which character has a better pop culture legacy? Image used with permission by copyright holder Although Indiana Jones has lasted for decades and made a massive impact, Star Wars has a bigger legacy than any other franchise on the planet. It essentially launched the blockbuster movie era in its current form, and a broad array of stories are still being told in this universe decades later.
Indiana Jones is a franchise built around a single character that is likely to disappear as soon as that character does. Star Wars may well live on forever, whether Harrison is involved in any future projects or not.
Winner: Han Solo Which character is smarter? Paramount Pictures Both Han and Indy have gotten out of the kinds of scrapes that suggest they have plenty of wit. Han is definitely much more working-class than Indy, but that doesn’t necessarily mean he’s less intelligent. Han is the kind of guy who knows how to survive, and that kind of knowledge is invaluable in a world as dangerous as the one he lives in.
Still, we have to go with Indy in this category, both because of his knowledge of various rare artifacts, and because so much of his work involves solving intricate puzzles on the road to his next quest.
Winner: Indiana Jones Which character has a better crew supporting him? Image used with permission by copyright holder Although Ford can certainly do plenty on his own, it always helps to have great supporting actors working around you. The Indiana Jones ensemble changes pretty wildly from movie to movie, and as a result, the quality of the supporting casts also shifts substantially.
Raiders of the Lost Ark has a wonderful ensemble, while Temple of Doom is much more of a mixed bag. (Sorry, Short Round!) Star Wars, meanwhile, features tons of British acting legends in supporting roles, as well as the always-reliable Carrie Fisher. Some people hate on Mark Hamill’s performance, but if he was as bad as everyone claims, these movies would not be the major motion pictures they’ve become.
Winner: Han Solo Which character presents more acting challenges? Image via Lucasfilm Especially in the Star Wars sequel trilogy , Ford gets a few moments to genuinely emote. For the most part, though, Han’s role is to be the cool skeptic and occasionally the comic relief. He gets genuine movie star moments, but not tons of them.
Indy is, by contrast, a character tailor-made to play to all of Ford’s strengths. He’s charismatic and cool, but also much less put together than his roguish looks may suggest. He gets moments of genuine wonder and amazement, and some that are genuinely moving. He may be a serial character, but Indy has also been an opportunity for Harrison to turn in a genuinely great performance.
Winner: Indiana Jones Which is Harrison Ford’s greatest role: Han Solo or Indiana Jones? Image used with permission by copyright holder By a hair, Ford’s great role is Indiana Jones.
 Few actors in the history of motion pictures have left a more indelible impact than Ford. Han and Indy are both parts that will put him in the movie star pantheon, but in the end, it’s Indy we’re likely to remember first when we think about his career.
Indy is the character that seems to have been tailor-made for him, and for all of his strengths as Han, we’ve already seen that Star Wars can exist without him. Indiana Jones, by contrast, seems likely to fade away along with Harrison.
Editors' Recommendations Dial of Destiny proves that the Indiana Jones franchise should end now 15 years later, is Indiana Jones and the Kingdom of the Crystal Skull still bad? Harrison Ford returns as Indiana Jones in first Dial of Destiny trailer Action Features Sci-Fi Star Wars Entertainment November has been a great month for movies at Netflix, with the premiere of David Fincher's The Killer, and recent box office hits like Insidious: The Red Door and Spider-Man: Across the Spider-Verse. This week, the new additions include The Impossible, a 2012 survival thriller that has already landed on the list of the 10 most popular movies on Netflix. For younger viewers, Minions is also heating up the charts despite the pending departure of the other films in the franchise at the end of the month.
There's only one holiday weekend left in November, so what's the best way to stay on top of everything new on Netflix? Why, we are, of course. Our list of the best movies on Netflix right now is updated every Friday, even on holiday weekends, so you can easily find something for every movie lover in your life.
Entertainment Summer is long over, and the fall season is in full swing. It's now late 2023, and just about everyone is subscribed to Netflix and Hulu. But would you be surprised if I told you one of the most underrated streaming services around is Tubi? The upstart streamer has tons of new and old TV shows from every decade and every genre imaginable. Want to watch the buzziest series that aired on Max? Tubi has it. Are you feeling nostalgic about that old movie or cartoon you used to watch as a kid in the '80s or '90s? Chances are, Tubi has it.
Tubi has so much content that it can be hard to choose which shows and films are worth your time. Digital Trends is here to help you sort out which ones are worth watching. Even though the streaming service is free, time is valuable, and no one wants to waste it watching subpar content.
Entertainment Rather than waiting for the Thanksgiving holiday weekend, Apple TV+ and Netflix dropped two of their biggest shows of the fall this week. Netflix's The Crown kicked off its sixth and final season with four new episodes, while the Apple TV+ Godzilla-adjacent series Monarch: Legacy of Monster, dropped its first two episodes this week, with new episodes arriving weekly thereafter. Also this week, Scott Pilgrim Takes Off hits Netflix, while Max gets in on the act this week by premiering the second season of Julia.
Netflix, Amazon Prime Video, Hulu, Max, Apple TV+, Disney+, Paramount+, and Peacock still have new shows coming for the rest of November, including a handful arriving next week. But if you've been thinking about cutting back on your streaming bill, then perhaps you should consider signing up for the ad-supported tiers. In the meantime, keep reading for our weekly roundup of the best new shows to stream.
When you're done here, check out the best new movies to stream this week, as well as the best shows on Netflix, best shows on Hulu, best shows on Amazon Prime Video, and best shows on Disney+.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
