Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix F1 Live Stream Stranger Things Season 5 Best New Movies Most Popular Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney+ UFC Live Stream Best Movies on Disney+ Home Entertainment Features How Indiana Jones and the Last Crusade saved my life By Michael Green Close The late 1980s and pre- Jurassic Park early 1990s were not an entirely successful era for Steven Spielberg.
Empire of the Sun (1987) was futile Oscar bait, while Always (1989) and Hook (1991) failed to charm audiences the way his earlier fantasies had.
Indiana Jones and the Last Crusade, on the other hand, released 33 years ago on Memorial Day weekend, was a huge success, the second highest-grossing picture of the year after the phenomenon that was Tim Burton’s Batman.
Critics and audiences loved it, and more than three decades on, it remains one of the director’s most popular movies.
Spielberg’s broken families Searching for faith The leap from the lion’s head Finding illumination Yes, some of the special effects are embarrassing, but that was true even at the time. And the action pales in comparison to the inspired breathlessness of Raiders of the Lost Ark (1981).
But John Williams provides some of his most moving music, and the relationships and the comic timing are special. I saw the movie a few years ago in a packed theater and it still played like gangbusters. As we gear up for a hopefully redemptive fifth Indiana Jones movie (after the unholy mess of Kingdom of the Crystal Skull ), I reflect on how the movie’s themes transformed me.
Paramount Spielberg’s broken families Beyond Spielberg’s sure instincts as an entertainer, Last Crusade holds up so well because its themes still resonate. The sentimental and heartfelt movie – Spielberg’s mea culpa for the violent and macabre Indiana Jones and the Temple of Doom (1984) – reflected the director’s changing ideas about family at the time. Like many of his films, Last Crusade is about the pain of children separated from their parents. In Close Encounters of the Third Kind (1977), a fatherless boy is kidnapped from his mother (Melinda Dillon), while a man (Richard Dreyfuss), forsakes his family to travel to the stars.
E.T.
(1982) likewise features an absent father and a family rent apart by a cosmic departure. In The Color Purple (1985), a woman (Whoopi Goldberg) suffers horribly from the abdication of parental responsibility, while Empire of the Sun features a boy (Christian Bale) torn from his family by war.
Last Crusade dramatizes both separation and abdication. The film opens with a young Indiana Jones (River Phoenix) whose mother is long gone, and whose father might as well be. Like the Dreyfuss character in Close Encounters, Henry Jones Sr. (Sean Connery) has abandoned family responsibilities to pursue his obsession: seeking the Holy Grail. Later in the film, when Indy rescues his father from Nazis and they pursue the Grail together, some of the most affecting scenes in the movie turn on the adult Indy’s (Harrison Ford) expressions of hurt and resentment. “What you taught me,” he tells his father at one point, “was that I was less important to you than people who’d been dead for five hundred years in another country, and I learned it so well, that we’ve hardly spoken for 20 years.” Paramount Searching for faith But the movie isn’t just about a family torn apart; it’s also about a family reunified and, ultimately, healed. Spielberg had become a parent by Last Crusade, and he would embark on an era of movies such as Hook (1991), Schindler’s List (1993) Jurassic Park (1993) , and Saving Private Ryan (1998), in which men took responsibility rather than shirked it, and learned to put family above all else.
Last Crusade bridges the divide between the two eras. It begins with a fractured family and an irresponsible parent and ends with a man who realizes what’s important before it’s too late. “Indiana,” Henry says as Indy puts himself in jeopardy to save the Grail at the movie’s climax, “Let it go.” I finally see it’s not as important as you are.
Indiana Jones and the perils of sequelizing Steven Spielberg Han Solo vs. Indiana Jones: Which one is Harrison Ford’s greatest role? Indy faces his destiny in new Indiana Jones 5 trailer I shared Indy’s (and Spielberg’s) pain. My sister died from a long illness at the end of that summer and my parents (like Spielberg’s) divorced soon after. I dearly hoped for family reunification, for a parent who would look up from their obsession and recognize that I was important. The movie’s dream of family healing sustained me during a lonely time. I saw it in the theater six times that summer.
Although never religious, I also responded to the movie’s themes about faith. “The search for the cup of Christ is the search for the divine in all of us,” says Marcus Brody (Denholm Elliott) early in the film, as he and Indy prepare to rescue Henry and launch their Grail search. The line signals that although an action movie made in a secular era will manifestly not be religious – Hollywood had stopped making Biblical epics decades earlier – Last Crusade is a spiritual movie, one that uses the Grail quest as a metaphor for the struggle to find faith.
Image used with permission by copyright holder The leap from the lion’s head The most impactful sequence for me, then and now, is the climax, when Henry is shot, and Indy must pass three lethal tests to reach the Grail and use its healing power to save his father. At the final test, he comes to a ledge overlooking a bottomless crevasse and realizes, “Only in the leap from the lion’s head will he prove his worth.” With Henry bleeding to death behind him, Indy chooses to take a leap of faith into the chasm, at which point a previously invisible bridge reveals itself to lead him safely across. The scene is a moving evocation of faith as a terrifying chasm that one must step into if one hopes to achieve the ultimate reward.
Not surprisingly, given his impact on the entire experience of modern movie-going, much of the success of this sequence, and the film overall, is due to John Williams’ Oscar nominated score , which is far from a Raiders retread. Williams only sparingly evokes the fanfare he made famous in the first film, instead composing new music that includes a beautiful swelling Grail theme and thrilling action refrains, particularly for the inspired opening scenes in which bandits chase young Indy across the top of a hurtling circus train.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Finding illumination Women rarely get to play with the boys in these stories, and true to form, the one woman (Alison Doody) in Last Crusade is a Nazi. Her role is temptress and betrayer, the treacherous woman of so many immature imaginations. When the passionate fraternity ride off together into the sunset, they leave her buried in the rubble.
Of course, such things didn’t phase me at the time. I was a boy myself that summer. Girls seemed as impossible to obtain as ancient Biblical artifacts and male friendships were the most important thing in my life. The idea that I could find spiritual “illumination,” as Henry puts it, through adventures with friends, was revelatory. My teen years were rough. Thankfully, Spielberg made a movie that suggested I might find a better future if I was just willing to take that metaphorical leap from the lion’s head. It’s an idea that still sustains me today.
Editors' Recommendations Dial of Destiny proves that the Indiana Jones franchise should end now Indiana Jones and the Dial of Destiny’s ending, explained 15 years later, is Indiana Jones and the Kingdom of the Crystal Skull still bad? Harrison Ford returns as Indiana Jones in first Dial of Destiny trailer ‘Get off my plane!’ 5 movie presidents who can kick your ass Action Features Entertainment For the first time in the history of the Indiana Jones movie franchise, Steven Spielberg will not be in the director's chair when cameras roll on the next installment of the series.
Spielberg himself reportedly made the decision to step down as director of Indiana Jones 5, which has yet to receive an official title or begin filming after a lengthy development period. The move was made to freshen up the franchise with a new filmmaker's perspective on the whip-cracking archaeologist's adventures, according to Variety.
Entertainment November has been a great month for movies at Netflix, with the premiere of David Fincher's The Killer, and recent box office hits like Insidious: The Red Door and Spider-Man: Across the Spider-Verse. This week, the new additions include The Impossible, a 2012 survival thriller that has already landed on the list of the 10 most popular movies on Netflix. For younger viewers, Minions is also heating up the charts despite the pending departure of the other films in the franchise at the end of the month.
There's only one holiday weekend left in November, so what's the best way to stay on top of everything new on Netflix? Why, we are, of course. Our list of the best movies on Netflix right now is updated every Friday, even on holiday weekends, so you can easily find something for every movie lover in your life.
Entertainment Summer is long over, and the fall season is in full swing. It's now late 2023, and just about everyone is subscribed to Netflix and Hulu. But would you be surprised if I told you one of the most underrated streaming services around is Tubi? The upstart streamer has tons of new and old TV shows from every decade and every genre imaginable. Want to watch the buzziest series that aired on Max? Tubi has it. Are you feeling nostalgic about that old movie or cartoon you used to watch as a kid in the '80s or '90s? Chances are, Tubi has it.
Tubi has so much content that it can be hard to choose which shows and films are worth your time. Digital Trends is here to help you sort out which ones are worth watching. Even though the streaming service is free, time is valuable, and no one wants to waste it watching subpar content.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
