Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending in Computing: Best Dell Laptops ChatGPT Best Monitors Asus ROG Azoth Review How to delete a page in Word in 3 easy steps RTX 4080 vs RTX 4070 Ti Best Mac Apps AMD vs Intel Recall an Email in Outlook Home Computing Guides Windows 12: the top features we want to see in the rumored OS By Jacob Roach Close Windows 12 might be in development at Microsoft, at least according to the latest rumors. A leak from Intel made mention of Windows 12, and with a new Windows Insider channel promising cutting-edge versions of the operating system, it seems Microsoft is eyeing the next major release.
A set Windows 12 release date Broad compatibility Free upgrade from Windows 11 Dense AI features More customization options Windows 11 is less than two years old, but reports say Microsoft could release Windows 12 as soon as 2024. Microsoft hasn’t made any official announcements yet, but it’s still not too early to get a wish list going. Here’s what I want to see out of the next major version of Windows.
A set Windows 12 release date Microsoft Windows 11 had a slow rollout. Although anyone could install Windows 11 after its official release date, you had to do it manually. Microsoft slowly rolled out the upgrade through Windows Update to others, making the new version’s release a bit unceremonious.
This new Windows 11 feature is a great addition for PC gamers This Windows 12 concept makes me excited for a full redesign Windows 11 is ditching this almost 20-year-old classic feature For Windows 12, I want to see a more confident approach from Microsoft; here’s the new operating system, go play around with it. Microsoft’s switch to a service model for Windows means that updates are rolled out through Windows Update, and it would be great to see the next version of the OS pop up on everyone’s PC simultaneously.
I’m not holding my breath on that, though. Microsoft, rightfully, has an insider program that allows registered users to test out new features before they’re rolled out to the general public, and Microsoft will probably take the same approach for Windows 12. Still, it would be nice to have a more definitive timeline for the new OS, where users can know when to expect the upgrade to hit their PC.
Microsoft hasn’t announced Windows 12’s release date, or that it’s working on the OS at all. The most we have to go on is a report from Zac Bowden at Windows Central, who says that sources claim Microsoft is switching to a release cadence of three years between major Windows updates. That should mean we see Windows 12 in the fall of 2024, but it’s too soon to say right now.
We’re confident that Windows 12 won’t be alongside some upcoming Microsoft hardware launches, including the Surface Laptop Studio 2 and Surface Pro 10.
Broad compatibility Image used with permission by copyright holder Windows 11 caught a lot of flak for requiring a Trusted Platform Module (TPM) to be installed on your PC, along with strict CPU requirements. This was, according to Microsoft, an effort to raise the bar for security across the Windows ecosystem by pairing modern security with a modern OS.
It stung at the time, but Microsoft has made big strides since the announcement of Windows 11 (PC gamers, who mainly felt the brunt of the TPM issue, have started flocking to Windows 11 ). For Windows 12, I hope Microsoft can stick with the same security system it established in Windows 11 so upgrading isn’t as tough, especially on custom-built PCs.
If Microsoft wants to raise the requirements again, at the very least, I hope there are fewer restrictions on installing Windows 12. An annoying watermark has continued to surface on Windows 11 PCs that aren’t properly configured for the OS, even when they’re fully supported. Hopefully, Microsoft can handle the next version with a bit more grace. Even today, custom PCs that are supported by Windows 11 will say they aren’t due to configuration issues.
Free upgrade from Windows 11 Image used with permission by copyright holder This is probably a given, but Windows 12 should be a free upgrade to Windows 11. Microsoft still sells new licenses for Windows 11, but anyone using a licensed version of Windows 10 can upgrade for free. Hopefully, Microsoft will keep that same system in place for Windows 12.
A big reason why I’d like to see this is because of the increasing amount of data Microsoft gathers about Windows users.
 Since Windows 8.1, Microsoft has offered subsequent versions of the OS for free, and mostly because the OS has turned into a service that Microsoft is able to monetize thought data collection and advertising. I don’t suspect that will change with Windows 12.
Although some privacy-focused folks have justified issues with Microsoft’s data collection, those efforts mean that Windows updates remain free for license holders, rather than being $100 or so upgrades, as was the case in previous Windows versions.
Dense AI features Photo by Alan Truly Microsoft’s multibillion investment in OpenAI is already revolutionizing every part of the company, from Bing Chat to AI features throughout Skype. In Windows 12, I want to see AI touch every part of the OS.
There are some AI-powered features Microsoft already has. Windows 11 includes AI-powered voice typing as an accessibility feature , for example, and AI helps improve background blur and noise reduction in Teams. That’s not to mention Bing Chat itself, which is integrated directly into the search bar in Windows 11.
For Windows 12, it’s hard to say where Microsoft could apply AI. One area where I’d like to see a larger focus is productivity, where it can leverage AI in Focus Sessions, notifications, and Widgets to provide more relevant information and create a schedule based on your usage patterns.
More customization options Image used with permission by copyright holder Windows 11 brought a much-needed face-lift to Microsoft’s OS. Rounded corners, a centered taskbar, and updated icons across the board make Windows 11 feel like a much more modern OS. However, Microsoft traded the customization Windows is known for in the process.
In Windows 12, I want to see deeper customization options. There are several tools that make Windows 11 look like Windows 10 , and I want to see Microsoft integrate those features into the OS itself. In particular, I want to see options for moving the taskbar to different sides of the screen, changing Start menu styles, and disabling features like widgets.
Editors' Recommendations I hope Microsoft adds this rumored AI feature to Windows 11 The Windows Copilot puts Bing Chat in every Windows 11 computer Is macOS more secure than Windows? This malware report has the answer More details leak about a modernized, modular Windows 12 Possible Windows 12 hardware system requirements revealed Microsoft Microsoft Windows Windows 12 Windows Guides Computing Windows 11 has a lot of great features, but moving the entire taskbar to a new location is not one of them (although you can move its icons). Despite that, it’s a highly requested feature -- and one that Microsoft might be about to make a reality.
According to Windows enthusiast @thebookisclosed on Twitter, a moveable taskbar is something Microsoft is at least considering, as evidenced by a video of the feature in action that was shared on the account’s Twitter page.
Computing Microsoft has just unveiled the latest update to Windows 11 which has already started rolling out. There are plenty of changes on the horizon, including those involving the ChatGPT-based Bing AI search.
The new update lets Windows 11 users communicate with the AI-powered version of Bing right in their taskbar. The AI model itself also seems to have received an update that might make conversing with it less bizarre.
Computing DirectX 12 is the latest graphics API that powers Windows 11, but many of the best PC games still either run on DirectX 11 or include an option to switch. Which should you choose? Although most updates to DirectX are iterative, DirectX 12 represents a massive shift for the API Microsoft has been developing for several decades. It can massively improve performance in your games, and it has a few unique features that DirectX 11 doesn't have access to.
Graphics APIs aren't equal Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
