Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix F1 Live Stream Stranger Things Season 5 Best New Movies Most Popular Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney+ UFC Live Stream Best Movies on Disney+ Home Entertainment Guides A Haunting in Venice’s ending, explained By Alex Welch Close Rob Youngson / 20th Century Studios Warning: This article contains spoilers for A Haunting in Venice (2023).
How A Haunting in Venice sets up its mystery plot How does A Haunting in Venice end? Are ghosts real? That question is at the center of one of the most anticipated movies of the season , A Haunting in Venice , Kenneth Branagh’s latest outing Hercule Poirot mystery. Loosely based on Agatha Christie’s Hallowe’en Party , the film spends most of its time at a Venetian palazzo one rain-soaked Halloween night. Summoned there by his friend and Christie-esque crime writer, Ariadne Oliver (Tina Fey), Branagh’s retired Poirot finds himself attending a seance run by the mischievous Joyce Reynolds ( Everything Everywhere All at Once ‘s Michelle Yeoh) at the behest of the palazzo’s owner, Rowena Drake (Kelly Reilly), a singer who has been mourning the tragic death of her daughter, Alicia (Rowan Robinson), for over a year.
When he is later attacked by an unseen killer and Joyce is found impaled on a statue, Poirot is forced to try to uncover the truth behind not only the death of Yeoh’s self-proclaimed medium but also Rowena’s daughter. Along the way, Branagh’s usually clear-eyed detective finds himself plagued by sounds and images of ghosts running through the deteriorating palazzo’s darkened halls. His resolve is tested and his cynicism regarding the afterlife is slowly but surely chipped away by his increasing number of seemingly supernatural encounters.
The Hunger Games: The Ballad of Songbirds & Snakes’ ending, explained Upload season 3’s ending, explained Murder on the Orient Express is on Hulu in October. Here’s why you should watch it How A Haunting in Venice sets up its mystery plot Unfortunately, it’s only after Dr. Leslie Ferrier (Jamie Dornan), a former wartime medic suffering from PTSD, is found dead with a knife in his back that Poirot finally realizes the truth about both his visions and the murders that have torn Rowena’s home apart from within. It is, therefore, with great sadness that Poirot announces to the house’s remaining occupants that it was, in fact, Reilly’s mourning Rowena who effectively killed not only Yeoh’s Joyce and Dornan’s Ferrier but also her own daughter.
Rob Youngson / 20th Century Studios Referencing some of her earlier remarks about the sadness she felt when Alicia became engaged to Maxime Gerard (Kyle Allen), Poirot explains how Rowena used the exotic flowers in her rooftop garden to create a poisonous honey, which she then began to put into Alicia’s daily tea. Her daughter subsequently became bedridden, seemingly delusional, and — most importantly — under the permanent care of Rowena. One night when her mother wasn’t present, though, Alicia experienced a bout of violent sickness. In response, the Drakes’ housekeeper, Olga Seminoff (Camille Cottin), unknowingly gave her too much of Rowena’s poisoned honey in order to try and soothe her.
Alicia died as a result and, in an attempt to cover up her role in her daughter’s death, Rowena scratched Alicia’s back and threw her body into the Venetian canal located beneath her bedroom’s balcony window. In doing so, she played into the locals’ fears about the ghosts rumored to haunt her home. Shortly thereafter, however, Rowena started to receive blackmail letters threatening to tell others the truth about what she’d done. It was with that in mind that she hired Joyce and then, after growing suspicious of her extensive knowledge of Alicia’s death, killed Yeoh’s medium when no one else was around. Later, Rowena became convinced it was really Leslie, Alicia’s former doctor, who’d been blackmailing her, so she forced him to kill himself by threatening the life of his son, Leopold (Jude Hill).
What Rowena didn’t realize was that her mysterious blackmailer was neither Leslie nor Joyce, but Leopold, who’d figured out the truth about Alicia’s “sickness” by reading through his father’s medical notes. Aware that Leslie was in no condition to financially provide for them anymore, Leopold decided to blackmail Rowena in order to keep himself and his father afloat. Poirot, meanwhile, only uncovered all of this after realizing that he’d been unknowingly given a dose of Rowena’s leftover honey — the true cause of his ghostly visions — earlier in the night.
How does A Haunting in Venice end? 20th Century Studios In the wake of all of these revelations, Rowena attempts to evade capture by running to her palazzo’s roof, only for her tearful confrontation with Poirot to be interrupted by the arrival of Alicia’s ghost. Poirot, terrified, watches as her daughter’s ghost pulls Rowena over the roof’s edge and sends her plummeting to the Venetian waters below, where she hits her head on a wooden support beam. The last image viewers then see of Reilly’s Rowena is her lifeless body being pulled further beneath the water’s surface by the ghostly specter of her daughter.
A Haunting in Venice ’s fateful Halloween night, consequently, ends on a note of tragic, otherworldly justice.
The next morning, Poirot bids farewell to Cottin’s Olga, who announces her intention to take care of Leopold in his late father’s stead. Ariadne, for her part, apologizes for trying to use Poirot to continue boosting her own literary career, while Branagh’s world-weary sleuth agrees to resume his career as a detective. The film then ends on a note of lighthearted, if melancholic, victory for its central, ever-vigilant hero.
As for whether or not ghosts are real, A Haunting in Venice never offers a definitive answer one way or the other. What the film does argue, however, is that a person can be haunted by many things, whether it be personal mistakes or happy memories. The secret to going on isn’t to run away from our own ghosts, though, but to learn to live with them — no matter what form they take.
A Haunting in Venice is now playing in theaters.
Editors' Recommendations Thanksgiving’s ending, explained The Marvels’ ending, explained The Morning Show season 3 ending, explained The Walking Dead: Daryl Dixon ending, explained The Fall of the House of Usher’s ending, explained Entertainment Each season, Hulu’s Only Murders in the Building brings an exciting new whodunit murder mystery complete with a new set of potential killers. Every season also adds impressive cast members, and for season three, that includes Paul Rudd and Meryl Streep in pivotal roles. As usual, the episodes follow Mabel (Selena Gomez), Oliver (Martin Short), and Charles (Steve Martin) as they run their own investigation to uncover the truth, creating podcast episodes to chronicle each discovery and theory.
The story in season 3 picks up where season 2 ended, with Rudd’s character Ben dying on stage in front of a crowd during the opening night of Oliver’s play. Mabel, looking on from the audience, has that “oh no, not again” face. But how does it all play out? Everyone is a suspect Entertainment Warning: This article contains spoilers for The Creator (2023).
Early in The Creator, its hero, Joshua (John David Washington), is assigned by his military superiors to track down and kill the mysterious figure known as “Nimata,” the creator of a new AI weapon that's supposedly capable of ending the war between the anti-AI U.S. and the robotic and human civilians of New Asia. It’s during this mission that Joshua crosses paths with the weapon in question, an AI child named Alphie (Madeleine Yuna Voyles), who has the power to remotely shut down any technological devices in close proximity to her.
Entertainment This week, Kenneth Branagh’s Hercule Poirot returns to the big screen in A Haunting in Venice. The film, based on Agatha Christie’s 1969 novel Hallowe'en Party, picks up with Branagh’s Poirot 10 years after the events of 2022’s Death on the Nile. It follows him as he’s slowly but surely drawn out of his self-imposed retirement by, at first, a séance, and then a brutal murder. As far as mysteries go, A Haunting in Venice is fairly standard, but it’s the film’s horror edge, as well as the gothic atmosphere it creates, that truly separates it from so many other movies like it.
That doesn’t, however, mean there aren’t a few movies that are capable of offering, at the very least, a similar experience. The following five mystery films should, in fact, satisfy anyone who leaves A Haunting in Venice in the mood for something in the same vein.
Clue (1985) Clue (1985) ORIGINAL TRAILER [HD 1080p] Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
