Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix F1 Live Stream Stranger Things Season 5 Best New Movies Most Popular Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney+ UFC Live Stream Best Movies on Disney+ Home Entertainment Nicolas Cage’s best modern films according to Rotten Tomatoes By Michael Green Close Nicolas Cage has had one of the most fascinating careers of contemporary movie actors. The nephew of legendary director Francis Ford Coppola ( The Godfather ), Cage emerged as a star in the 1980s with classics such as Raising Arizona and Moonstruck , then found even bigger glory in the 1990s as an Oscar winner (for Leaving Las Vegas ) and global action icon ( The Rock , Face/Off, Con Air).
By 2010, however, Cage had become something of a punch line for both the gonzo intensity of his acting and for working ceaselessly to pay off his infamous debts — often in B movies made on the cheap, in the kind of flicks that would have typically gone “straight to video” in the pre-streaming era.
10. Lord of War (2005) – 61% 9. World Trade Center (2006) – 66% 8. Mom and Dad (2018) – 75% 7. Matchstick Men (2003) – 82% 6. (TIE) Joe (2014) – 86% 5. (TIE) Bad Lieutenant: Port of Call New Orleans (2009) – 86% 4. (TIE) Color Out of Space (2019) – 86% 3. (TIE) Mandy (2018) – 90% 2. (TIE) Adaptation (2002) – 90% 1. Pig (2021) – 96% But, as Cage himself has said, the secret to his longevity and maintaining a prolific career even as he fell from Hollywood’s A-list is that he never phones in a performance. Even in what might seem like the cheapest, silliest, weirdest pictures, he brings conviction and commitment to the role. As such, his later roles represent some of his most daring and inventive work. To celebrate the release of his latest, The Unbearable Weight of Massive Talent , itself a paean to all things Nic Cage, here are the actor’s best live-action films of the 21st century according to Rotten Tomatoes.
10.
Lord of War (2005) – 61% MGM Lord of War was an expensive drama ($50 million dollars) when Cage was at the tail end of the period during which his movies still had Hollywood budgets. However, the movie fared poorly with American audiences, who, still in the patriotic aftermath of 9/11, perhaps weren’t interested in a movie about U.S. complicity in arming genocidal warlords.
Nicolas Cage’s Superman will be in The Flash movie for some reason The best uses of popular songs in modern horror movie trailers, ranked The 10 best Steven Spielberg movies, ranked by Rotten Tomatoes Cage plays Yuri Orlov, a second-generation Ukrainian immigrant who, with the help of his troubled brother (Jared Leto), becomes an international arms dealer pursued by a crusading Interpol agent (Ethan Hawke). The movie is loosely based on true accounts, which make Yuri’s moral crisis and the insights into global arms manufacturing all the more compelling. But critics ultimately found that the narrative elements of the film fit together unevenly.
9.
World Trade Center (2006) – 66% Paramount Pictures Oliver Stone, the famously controversial chronicler of American historical traumas and misdeeds ( Platoon , JFK , Born on the Fourth of July ), brings his bold (some would say pummeling) filmmaking style to the events of 9/11, though this time with a decidedly more celebratory view of American valor. Based on a true story, the movie stars Cage as Sgt. John McLoughlin and Michael Peña as Will Jimeno, two real-life police officers who were pinned under the rubble of the collapsed South Tower and who almost died before being rescued.
Ironically, critics found the film to be almost too sentimental in its earnest evocation of American heroism, and panned Stone for not bringing his normal critical eye toward American foreign policy, which was then being roundly castigated for the Iraq War and the sanction of torture, among other controversies.
8.
Mom and Dad (2018) – 75% XYZ Films Written and directed by Brian Taylor, this indie black comedy didn’t find much of an audience, but critics appreciated the clever premise. Cage and Selma Blair play Brent and Kendall, the parents of two school-age children who find themselves afflicted by a broadcast that brainwashes local parents to murder their own children. The big joke is that neither Brent nor Kendall were all that excited about being parents in the first place, so perhaps these new compulsions represent something of an opportunity to exorcise their midlife crisis in the most violently cathartic way possible — as Brent does when he wrecks his nascent man cave with a sledgehammer while singing “The Hokey Pokey” (a classic Cage moment).
The film delivers a sufficient quantity of mordant laughs and gory shocks, though Taylor seems wisely aware that a brisk 83 minutes is all this material can sustain.
7.
Matchstick Men (2003) – 82% Warner Brothers An opportunity for Cage to work with director Ridley Scott, then at one his creative peaks (he was coming off Gladiator and Black Hawk Down ), Matchstick Man wasn’t quite the success one might hope their pairing would produce. Cage plays Roy Waller, a con man with obsessive compulsive disorder hoping to reestablish a relationship with his teen daughter (Alison Lohman), only to begin to involve her in one of his scams.
As one might expect, Cage goes all-in on depicting Roy’s OCD, and the performance is convincing, verging on the uncomfortable. Critics were impressed, but found the performances of Cage, Lohman, and Sam Rockwell, as Roy’s partner in crime, more diverting than the somewhat underwhelming con plot.
6. (TIE) Joe (2014) – 86% Roadside Attractions Before graduating to stoner comedies like The Pineapple Express and endless remakes of Halloween , director David Gordon Green specialized in intimate character studies such as George Washington and All the Real Girls.
 He works in that mode here, while still bringing the brooding menace and punctuations of brutality required for an effective small-town crime story.
Cage plays Joe Ransom, an ex-con who strikes up a friendship with Gary (Tye Sheridan), an aimless teen in need of both a father figure and protection from his real deadbeat dad, which Joe is happy to provide, even as the danger increases. Critics appreciated Green’s atmospheric work, the uncharacteristically dialed-back Cage performance, and the relationship between Joe and Gary, calling it the heart of the film.
5. (TIE) Bad Lieutenant: Port of Call New Orleans (2009) – 86% Lionsgate The idea for this film sounds like the winner of the Most Unlikely Movie Premise contest: Get Cage to play a version of Harvey Keitel’s loathsome Bad Lieutenant from Abel Ferrara’s infamous 1992 film and have legendary German auteur Werner Herzog direct it. Oh, and let’s set the whole thing in New Orleans, post-Katrina, then fill it with slithering reptiles (gator, iguana, snake, and, well, human).
The twist, of course, is that the movie actually got made. The result is a riveting portrait of a man on the edge, a cop played by Cage who is so completely in thrall to his addictions that he openly conducts criminal transactions in the police station, steals drugs from anybody he comes across, and sticks his .44 Magnum in the face of two old ladies who won’t cooperate. Critics lauded the gripping crime plot as well as Cage’s epic performance, in which he marshals his every skill as an actor to make this monster sympathetically human.
4. (TIE) Color Out of Space (2019) – 86% SpectreVision Based on a short story by H.P. Lovecraft, Color Out of Space (directed by Richard Stanley) is a mashup of the sci-fi, fantasy, horror, and cosmic philosophy that characterized the author’s work. As in Mandy , which is next on the list, Cage plays a husband just trying to live peacefully off the grid with his family when a meteor carrying extraterrestrial life strikes nearby. The alien presence manifests as an unearthly fuchsia glow, seeps into the local water system, and wreaks havoc on the family and their neighbors.
Color Out of Space owes more than a little to John Carpenter’s remake of The Thing , as well as Invasion of the Body Snatchers, with some Dracula and Frankenstein thrown in for good measure. But the movie plays like a celebration of its influences, not a rip-off, and the visuals, along with Cage’s unhinged performance, make this a trippy trip worth taking.
3. (TIE) Mandy (2018) – 90% SpectreVision The unrated Mandy works as a companion piece to Color Out of Space , but one that is even more bizarre and ultraviolent. It’s a phantasmagoric, hallucinatory fever dream of a motion-picture experience (and that is not a sentence you can write about many films). Cage goes full-bore crazy in this one, playing a logger living way off the grid who hunts down a cult of sadistic zealots and their psychopathic leader after they kidnap his wife.
Critics appreciated Cage’s fully committed performance as a man crazed by pain, grief, and the need for vengeance, as well as the aesthetic realized by director Panos Cosmatos that, in its fusion of high fantasy, sexualized violence, and psychedelia, feels like early ’80s Heavy Metal magazine covers come to life. The whole thing plays like a bad LSD trip, and it’s absolutely meant to.
2. (TIE) Adaptation (2002) – 90% Sony Pictures Directed by Spike Jonze and written by Charlie Kaufman, Adaptation was part of a fertile creative period for the duo that also yielded the beloved Being John Malkovich and Eternal Sunshine of the Spotless Mind , all within a five-year period. Like those two films, Adaptation is so anti-Hollywood in its satirical tone, structure, and meta engagement with real life that it’s a little amazing it got made, even at the tail end of the indie cinema boom of the ’90s.
The movie earned Cage his second Oscar nomination for Best Actor, and he gives an entirely convincing performance as two very different twin brothers: The talented but neurotic Charlie, who is struggling mightily to adapt a difficult nonfiction book into a screenplay; and the shallow but undaunted Donald, who writes and sells a successful, though formulaic, screenplay under Charlie’s nose. If you’re wondering how all this leads to hijinks in the Florida Everglades with Meryl Streep, well, it’s just that kind of movie.
1.
Pig (2021) – 96% Neon Another of Cage’s low-budget indies, Pig (directed by Michael Sarnoski) emerged from way under the radar to become one of the best-reviewed movies of 2021. Cage plays Robin Feld, a hermit living in the Oregon woods who ekes out a living selling truffles nosed up by his beloved swine. When intruders kidnap the old girl, Feld goes on an underground odyssey through the Portland haute cuisine scene to get her back.
The movie’s setup could easily have had Feld launch into full John Wick revenge mode, kicking in doors and massacring the hooligans responsible for disturbing his delicate peace (as Cage does in Mandy ). But despite some tense moments, Pig is a meditative film about finding a way forward through grief and regret. Critics praised the film, as well as Cage’s central performance, calling it one of his best in years.
Editors' Recommendations Nicolas Cage embraces chaos in Sympathy for the Devil trailer The best Harry Potter movies, ranked by Rotten Tomatoes Nicolas Cage’s Dracula wants his servant back in Renfield trailer Rotten Tomatoes teams with Cryptozoic to launch card game The best films of TIFF 2022 Features Entertainment As one of the top review-aggregation websites for film and television, Rotten Tomatoes announced in a press release its renewed donation to the 2022 Toronto International Film Festival (TIFF) Media Inclusion Initiative. This contribution solidifies Rotten Tomatoes' pledge to expand its Critics Outreach and Grant Program to raise inclusion in entertainment criticism.
TIFF's Media Inclusion Initiative was established to provide financial backing for critics in underrepresented groups. Rotten Tomatoes has donated over $100,00 since the program's inception.
“According to a recent survey we conducted with 350 Tomatometer-approved critics, 92% contend that the cost of travel and lodging still prohibits them from attending key festivals and conventions,” said Jenny Jediny, Rotten Tomatoes Director of Critic Engagement, in a press release.
Entertainment For no good reason at all -- and certainly not one related to its content -- Solo: A Star Wars Story has become the bastard child of Disney's Star Wars family, a scapegoat for all the rushed and bad choices made by Disney and Lucasfilm honcho Kathleen Kennedy during the first phase of the Disney Star Wars era (the era that included the sequel trilogy, Rogue One, and Solo).
Other than the distant possibility of a Lando Calrissian spin-off series starring Donald Glover, Solo has become film non grata in the Star Wars universe, despite Disney's seeming willingness to make TV shows out of every square inch of it. Remember that scene in The Empire Strikes Back when ice falls onto R2-D2's head in the Hoth Echo Base corridor? Disney recently announced a 16-episode series about what happened in that corridor. OK, not really, but I'm guessing it also wouldn't surprise anyone if it turned out to be true.
Entertainment Rotten Tomatoes, one of the leading film and television reviews-aggregation sites, announced today its collaboration with the industry leader in movie scenes and trailers on YouTube, Movieclips, to form a new video network known as the Rotten Tomatoes YouTube Network. The resulting creation will serve as the perfect landing spot for entertainment fans to watch over 100,000 short and long-form videos from their favorite films and television programs as well as view teasers for upcoming projects.
With these two entertainment staples joining forces, the Rotten Tomatoes YouTube Network will now serve over 90 million subscribers. Previously, Movieclips curated its content around movie clips and trailers. By collaborating with Rotten Tomatoes, the network will increase its coverage and add television and streaming to its platform. The network will feature 10 active channels such as Rotten Tomatoes Movieclips, Rotten Tomatoes Trailers, Rotten Tomatoes TV, Rotten Tomatoes Classic Trailers, and more. Plus, expect to see celebrity interviews, entertainment news, event coverage, and fan debates on the network.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
