Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix F1 Live Stream Stranger Things Season 5 Best New Movies Most Popular Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney+ UFC Live Stream Best Movies on Disney+ Home Entertainment Guides The best shows on Hulu right now (November 2023) By Christine Persaud and Nick Perry Close The best shows on Hulu right now include some exciting options across every genre, from originals like Only Murders in the Building to FX partnership titles like the new series A Murder at the End of the World starring Emma Corrin and popular shows like Fargo , which returns for its fifth season this month with Jon Hamm joining the cast. There’s so much to choose from on Hulu, but where do you start? To help you make the right choice, we have highlighted the best shows on the streaming service, with a short synopsis of what each one is about and why it’s worth watching. Not every title will be every person’s cup of tea, but if you’re in the mood for horror when your partner wants a rom-com, you might actually be able to find something in the middle, or at least be able to compromise with a rom-com that’s not too sappy. Have a read and find the right show for you.
Looking for something else? We’ve also rounded up the best movies on Hulu , the best shows on Netflix , the best shows on Amazon Prime Video , and the best shows on Disney+.
Save on everything from laptops and tablets, to coffee makers and air purifiers, and a whole host of Apple tech like iPad, Apple Watch and even the latest M3 MacBooks, as well as smart home essentials like the Amazon Echo and smart bulbs.
A Murder at the End of the World 2023 Black Cake 2023 Fargo tv-ma 2014 A Murder at the End of the World (2023) new 1 Season Mystery Emma Corrin, Brit Marling, Clive Owen Brit Marling, Zal Batmanglij watch on Hulu watch on Hulu Thanks to the success of movies like Glass Onion and shows like Poker Face and Based On a True Story , the murder-mystery genre is experiencing a revival of sorts.
A Murder at the End of the World is in the same vein as Knives Out and the movies that inspired it, like Clue and Death on the Nile , in that it centers around an ensemble cast of characters invited to a location, only for one of them to wind up dead.
The Crown ’s Emma Corrin stars as Darby, one of the guests invited to a reclusive billionaire’s estate. She also happens to be an amateur detective. When someone is found dead not long after joining the party, Darby takes it upon herself to use her skills and investigate and stop another murder from happening. The FX series, which has just seven episodes, also stars Clive Owen, Alice Braga, and Jermaine Fowler.
Read less Black Cake (2023) new 1 Season Drama Chipo Chung, Rupert Evans, Ashley Thomas Marissa Jo Cerar watch on Hulu watch on Hulu Another entry in the murder-mystery genre, Black Cake is executive produced by Oprah Winfrey and based on the novel of the same name by Charmain Wilkerson. It’s about a woman named Eleanor (Chipo Chung) who passes away from cancer. But before she died, she chronicled her life in stories saved to a flash drive for her children.
As the children experience the stories about their mother’s journey from the Caribbean to America, they also learn the odd story about a runaway bride named Covey who went missing in the 1960s. The more they learn, the more the kids discover shocking truths about where their family comes from and who they truly are.
Read less Fargo (2014) new tv-ma 5 Seasons Crime, Drama Billy Bob Thornton, Colin Hanks, Martin Freeman (season 1); Kirsten Dunst, Ted Danson (season 2); Ewan McGregor, Carrie Coon, Mary Elizabeth Winstead (season 3) Noah Hawley watch on Hulu watch on Hulu Based on the Coen brothers’ beloved film of the same name, Fargo returns to the icy plains of Minnesota, a place where nefarious plots are conceived and enacted by otherwise seemingly normal folks. The TV adaptation features a rotating all-star cast that has included Billy Bob Thornton and Martin Freeman, not to mention Colin Hanks, Allison Tolman, and Chris Rock.
Each season, which takes place in Minnesota North and South Dakota, and/or Missouri, stays true to the same black comedy and deadly mishaps that made the original film so popular. The fifth season adds Jon Hamm, Ted Lasso ‘s Juno Temple, Stranger Things ‘ Joe Keery, Jennifer Jason Leigh, and Dave Foley to the cast list Read less American Horror Story (2011) tv-ma 12 Seasons Drama, Mystery, Sci-Fi & Fantasy Emma Roberts, Matt Czuchry, Kim Kardashian Ryan Murphy, Brad Falchuk watch on Hulu watch on Hulu American Horror Story is an anthology series, with each season centering on its own unique story, including a core cast with changing roles from season to season (along with some notable new additions from time to time). Each season provides scares and frightening psychological storylines, whether they take place within a troubled family home, amid a coven of witches, or inside a hotel of circus freaks.
American Horror Story is a unique drama that capitalizes on the work of series creator Ryan Murphy. While some seasons are better reviewed than others, the cast is always top-notch and the stories always thrilling, disturbing, and entertaining. The latest season, American Horror Story: Delicate, features Emma Roberts, Suicide Squad ‘ s Cara Delevingne, and Kim Kardashian.
Read less Ash vs Evil Dead (2015) tv-ma 3 Seasons Comedy, Action & Adventure, Sci-Fi & Fantasy Bruce Campbell, Lucy Lawless, Ray Santiago Sam Raimi watch on Hulu watch on Hulu You can watch the full series of Ash vs. Evil Dead , a sequel series to the popular Evil Dead movies created by Sam Raimi , including all three seasons before its untimely cancellation. Bruce Campbell reprises his role as Ash Williams, who is now, 30 years after the events of the last movie, working as a stock boy in a value grocery store. Naturally, however, Ash must roll up his sleeves and get to work once again when he’s faced with the return of the Evil Dead.
Now joined by two friends Pablo (Ray Santiago) and Kelly (Dana DeLorenzo), the trio must do what’s necessary to save humanity. For fans of the original movies, Ash vs. Evil Dead provides a new perspective and an interesting future story for the beloved hero.
Read less Bob's Burgers (2011) tv-14 14 Seasons Comedy, Animation H. Jon Benjamin, Kristen Schaal, Eugene Mirman Jim Dauterive, Loren Bouchard watch on Hulu watch on Hulu At first, Bob’s Burgers struggled to find traction in Fox’s animation block, failing to pull in the dedicated audiences of Family Guy and The Simpsons.
 Over the last more than a decade, however, the Belchers have emerged as an entity all their own, a family struggling to make ends meet, but never struggling to cheer each other up and have as good of a time as they can. The characters never age, but the sitcom only seems to get better with time, fixating on the fictional family and their burger joint.
With a feature film that celebrates the show’s success as well (note that the movie is no longer streaming), there’s no better time to start binging the Belcher family’s escapades.
Read less Shoresy (2022) tv-ma 2 Seasons Comedy Jared Keeso, Tasya Teles Jared Keeso watch on Hulu watch on Hulu If you’re a fan of the Canadian comedy Letterkenny , you’ll love Shoresy.
 In Letterkenny , the character of Shoresy is never seen by face, and that’s for good reason: He is actually played by the show’s creator Jared Keeso, who also stars as the lead character, Wayne. In this spinoff, Shoresy is seen in all his glory. He has decided to move to Sudbury to help a flailing local hockey team, bringing his unique sense of small-town Canadian flare.
Apparently, Shoresy is one of the most popular characters from Letterkenny when it comes to merchandising, so fans were excited to learn more about his story in this comedy that is rife with Canadian slang and other familiar humor.
Read less Welcome to Wrexham (2022) tv-ma 2 Seasons Documentary Ryan Reynolds, Rob McElhenney watch on Hulu watch on Hulu It’s about as close to a real-life Ted Lasso story as we might get. When actors Rob McElhenney and Ryan Reynolds decided to purchase a small-town Football Association of Wales club, the third-oldest in the world, they knew nothing about managing a sports team and arguably less about football. They also didn’t know one another very well at the time. But they saw an opportunity to revive a struggling club that was hit hard by the COVID-19 pandemic and a growing number of less-than-enthusiastic fans.
Watch their process to turn the team around in this docuseries that highlights both the passion and camaraderie of these actors, who are determined to bring positive change and hope to a community.
Welcome to Wrexham combines humor with heartwarming stories about a working-class town and two Hollywood comedic geniuses getting to know the game, the people, and the inner workings of a team in hopes of bringing home a victory.
Read less Once Upon a Time (2011) tv-pg 7 Seasons Drama, Sci-Fi & Fantasy Lana Parrilla, Colin O'Donoghue, Robert Carlyle Edward Kitsis, Adam Horowitz watch on Hulu watch on Hulu Imagine if all the stories and characters you read about in those fairy tales when you were a child came to life? That’s the premise in Once Upon a Time , which takes place in two worlds: one of fantasy where fairy tales occur and another in a fictional seaside town. Despite living in the real world, the fairy tale characters experience the same stories we have come to know and love, with interesting twists.
See real-life versions of everyone from Show White to Prince Charming, Rumpelstiltskin, and the Evil Queen. With all seven seasons streaming, it’s a fun show to watch with or without older kids.
Read less Kitchen Nightmares (2007) tv-14 7 Seasons Reality Gordon Ramsay watch on Hulu watch on Hulu Deliciously unscripted, Kitchen Nightmare s highlights the challenges of running a real-world restaurant as celebrity chef Gordon Ramsay visits flailing venues from across the U.S. to help them turn things around. He begins by sampling the menu, speaking to staff and owners, and checking the back kitchen. It’s one part renovation show one part therapy session as Ramsay digs deep to uncover what’s going wrong. Sometimes, it’s clueless owners, apathetic staff, and mismanagement. Other times, it’s a bland, even horrendous, menu in dire need of an overhaul.
Each episode has its unique flair, with some even being downright disgusting as Ramsay finds everything from moldy meat to infestations. There’s a lot of butting heads with arrogant owners resistant to change (or hearing that they’re doing anything wrong) and staff set in their ways. It’s no wonder Ramsay needed to take a break from this show, which is returning for its eighth season after an almost decade-long hiatus.
Read less Only Murders in the Building (2021) tv-ma 3 Seasons Comedy, Crime, Mystery Steve Martin, Martin Short, Selena Gomez Steve Martin, John Robert Hoffman watch on Hulu watch on Hulu What do you get when two you combine two comedic icons with a Disney Channel actor turned pop music star? Apparently, it’s a buddy-type comedy about three strangers. Steve Martin (who is also the co-creator of Only Murders in the Building ), Martin Short, and Selena Gomez are all residents of an upscale New York building who come together because they share an obsessive passion for true crime. But when they find themselves actually involved in one, then two, and yet another, the situation gets increasingly hairy, and their sleuthing skills are put to the test.
Out of the gate, the series was praised for the charming central characters, along with the “ hilarious and insightful ” story that takes a silly look at society’s obsession with this tragic genre. The show has had a long list of guest and supporting stars, including Tina Fey, Sting, Nathan Lane, Shirley MacLaine, and, for season 3, Meryl Streep and Paul Rudd.
Read less Justified: City Primeval (2023) tv-ma 1 Season Crime, Drama Timothy Olyphant, Aunjanue Ellis-Taylor, Boyd Holbrook Michael Dinner, Dave Andron watch on Hulu watch on Hulu This neo-Western crime drama miniseries is a continuation of the story told in the series Justified , which originally aired on FX from 2010-2015. Timothy Olyphant reprises his role as the tough Deputy U.S. Marshal Raylan Givens, who has now relocated to Miami from Kentucky. In the first season, however, he travels to Detroit to hunt down a criminal known as The Oklahoma Wildman.
Justified: City Primeval has received rave reviews, with Olyphant in particular praised for his performance. Both this series and Justified are based on the Elmore Leonard novels, City Primeval: High Noon in Detroit and Fire in the Hole.
Read less Reservation Dogs (2021) tv-ma 3 Seasons Drama, Comedy, Crime Devery Jacobs, D'Pharaoh Woon-A-Tai, Paulina Jewel Alexis Taika Waititi, Sterlin Harjo watch on Hulu watch on Hulu With a predominantly Native American cast and crew, Reservation Dogs provides a comedic glimpse into indigenous life. When four indigenous teenagers living on a reservation in rural Oklahoma set their sights on moving to a wonderful and exotic place they know as California, they are willing to do whatever it takes to get there. That means engaging in criminal activities to acquire the funds they need to leave. But when a rival gang shows up in town, the boys find themselves fighting crime as much as they are committing it.
Having premiered in early August 2021, the series, which ends after season 3, has received rave reviews. With an almost perfect 98% Certified Fresh RottenTomatoes rating , critics say it’s a “low-key comedy that deftly captures the malaise of youth and Rez life.” Read less Archer (2009) tv-ma 14 Seasons Comedy, Action & Adventure, Animation H. Jon Benjamin, Aisha Tyler, Jessica Walter Adam Reed watch on Hulu watch on Hulu Sterling Archer is an agent for a dysfunctional intelligence agency in this animated sitcom that takes inspiration from franchises like James Bond and mid-century comic art. Relying on reference-heavy humor and meta-comedy, Archer revolves around the narcissistic, womanizing secret agent Archer and his seven colleagues, each with their own quirks, like his snarky mother, delusional and psychotic personal assistant, and a morally bankrupt scientist.
The later seasons of Archer , which was originally created for basic cable network FX and then moved to sister network FXX, are designed like an anthology, with each season having its own self-contained story. Season 14 is the long-running show’s last.
Read less Solar Opposites (2020) tv-ma 4 Seasons Comedy, Animation, Sci-Fi & Fantasy Justin Roiland, Mike McMahan watch on Hulu watch on Hulu From the creators of Rick and Morty , this Hulu original animated sitcom, which has a solid 92% aggregate critic rating on Rotten Tomatoes, sees four aliens crash-land into a suburban American town. While waiting for the right moment to take over Earth, they do their best to learn the ways of humans and live among them — but they each have their own perceptions about human behavior and what is awful versus awesome.
With an impressive voice cast, including both main and recurring characters, Solar Opposites has been a hit for Hulu. So it comes as a surprise that the series has already been renewed for a fifth season as well.
Read less What We Do in the Shadows (2019) tv-ma 5 Seasons Comedy Kayvan Novak, Matt Berry, Natasia Demetriou Jemaine Clement watch on Hulu watch on Hulu This isn’t your typical vampire drama — it’s actually a mockumentary comedy that presents the idea of vampires living among us, going about their mundane daily lives. At the heart of the story, which is based on the 2014 movie of the same name, are four vampires living as roommates.
The leader has a penchant for useless house meetings while another dabbles in pornography, and two others are having a “secret” affair. It’s full-on hilarity and perfect for anyone looking for an anti-vampire show that pokes fun at the typical tropes instead of playing into them. Critics call it “ delightfully absurd ” and “ridiculously fun.” Read less The Bear (2022) tv-ma 2 Seasons Comedy Jeremy Allen White, Ebon Moss-Bachrach, Ayo Edebiri Christopher Storer watch on Hulu watch on Hulu Read less Futurama (1999) tv-14 8 Seasons Comedy, Sci-Fi & Fantasy, Animation, Drama, Action & Adventure Billy West, Katey Sagal, John DiMaggio, Tress MacNeille, Maurice LaMarche, Phil LaMarr, Lauren Tom, David Herman, Frank Welker Matt Groening watch on Hulu watch on Hulu Read less This Fool (2022) tv-ma 2 Seasons Comedy watch on Hulu watch on Hulu Julio (Chris Estrada) is 30 and still living at home. Working at a non-profit and unable to commit to his long-term girlfriend, Julio always manages to run away from responsibility. But things get hairy when his ex-gang member cousin Luis (Frankie Quinones), recently released from prison, moves in with the family.
Inspired by Estrada’s own life story (he also serves as co-creator) and counting Jonathan Groff and Fred Armisen among the executive producers, the irreverent comedy runs a half hour per episode. Maintaining a solid 100% Rotten Tomatoes critics score , This Fool’s first season is praised for its balance of heart and laughter, with some calling it the funniest new show on television.
Read less Mayans M.C. (2018) tv-ma 5 Seasons Crime, Drama J. D. Pardo, Clayton Cardenas, Edward James Olmos Kurt Sutter, Elgin James watch on Hulu watch on Hulu A spin-off of the popular FX series Sons of Anarchy , this crime drama follows the Mayans M.C. motorcycle club as they become allies of the Sons. Set in the same universe, the series begins two years after the events that ended SOA’s run, miles away in the fictional town of Santo Padre in California.
While Ezekiel “EZ” Reyes is a gifted young man, he finds himself being pulled into the dark criminal underworld of the cartel seeking vengeance, and, like Jax Teller from SOA , can’t seem to make his way out.
Mayans M.C.
concludes with its fifth and final season.
Read less Unprisoned (2023) tv-ma 1 Season Comedy Kerry Washington, Delroy Lindo, Marque Richardson Tracy McMillan watch on Hulu watch on Hulu Kerry Washington is back on the small screen in Unprisoned , a comedy about Paige, a single mom and therapist who finds her already messy life thrown for a loop when her father is released from prison after serving a 17-year sentence. He moves in with her and her teenage son, and the new family of three must find a way to get along.
While the show is a comedy, it also unpacks a lot of more dramatic topics like childhood trauma, forgiveness, grudges, and boundaries. Receiving high praise in early reviews, Unprisoned is dubbed a “snappy comedy” with heavy themes, with both lead actors, including Delroy Lindo as Paige’s father, Edwin, shining in their respective roles.
Read less Animaniacs (2020) tv-pg 3 Seasons Animation, Comedy Rob Paulsen, Jess Harnell, Tress MacNeille watch on Hulu watch on Hulu Read less Wu-Tang: An American Saga (2019) tv-ma 3 Seasons Drama Ashton Sanders, Siddiq Saunderson, Johnell Young RZA, Alex Tse watch on Hulu watch on Hulu Read less Letterkenny (2016) tv-ma 11 Seasons Comedy Jared Keeso, Nathan Dales, Michelle Mylett, K. Trevor Wilson, Dylan Playfair, Jacob Tierney Jared Keeso watch on Hulu watch on Hulu Read less Welcome to Chippendales (2022) tv-ma 1 Season Drama, Crime, Comedy Kumail Nanjiani, Murray Bartlett, Annaleigh Ashford watch on Hulu watch on Hulu Read less The Handmaid's Tale (2017) tv-ma 5 Seasons Sci-Fi & Fantasy, Drama Elisabeth Moss, Yvonne Strahovski, Joseph Fiennes Bruce Miller watch on Hulu watch on Hulu Read less Ramy (2019) tv-ma 3 Seasons Comedy, Drama Ramy Youssef, Mohammed Amer, Hiam Abbass, Dave Merheje, Amr Waked, May Calamawy, Laith Nakli Ramy Youssef, Ari Katcher, Ryan Welch watch on Hulu watch on Hulu Read less Abbott Elementary (2021) tv-pg 2 Seasons Comedy Quinta Brunson, Tyler James Williams, Janelle James Quinta Brunson watch on Hulu watch on Hulu Read less Atlanta (2016) tv-ma 4 Seasons Comedy, Drama Donald Glover, Brian Tyree Henry, Lakeith Stanfield Donald Glover watch on Hulu watch on Hulu Read less The Americans (2013) tv-ma 6 Seasons Crime, Drama Keri Russell, Matthew Rhys, Holly Taylor Joseph Weisberg watch on Hulu watch on Hulu Read less Killing Eve (2018) tv-14 4 Seasons Crime, Drama Sandra Oh, Jodie Comer, Fiona Shaw Phoebe Waller-Bridge(developed for television by) watch on Hulu watch on Hulu Read less The Old Man (2022) tv-ma 1 Season Action & Adventure, Drama Jeff Bridges, John Lithgow, Amy Brenneman Jonathan E. Steinberg, Robert Levine watch on Hulu watch on Hulu Read less Love, Victor (2020) tv-14 3 Seasons Comedy, Drama Michael Cimino, Rachel Hilson, Anthony Turpel Isaac Aptaker, Elizabeth Berger watch on Hulu watch on Hulu Read less The Orville (2017) tv-14 3 Seasons Drama, Comedy, Sci-Fi & Fantasy Seth MacFarlane, Adrianne Palicki, Penny Johnson Seth MacFarlane watch on Hulu watch on Hulu Read less Under the Banner of Heaven (2022) tv-ma 1 Season Crime, Drama, Mystery Andrew Garfield, Daisy Edgar-Jones, Sam Worthington Dustin Lance Black watch on Hulu watch on Hulu Read less The Dropout (2022) tv-ma 1 Season Drama Amanda Seyfried, Naveen Andrews, Utkarsh Ambudkar Elizabeth Meriweather watch on Hulu watch on Hulu Read less PEN15 (2019) tv-ma 2 Seasons Comedy Maya Erskine, Anna Konkle, Mutsuko Erskine Maya Erskine, Anna Konkle, Sam Zvibleman watch on Hulu watch on Hulu Read less It's Always Sunny in Philadelphia (2005) tv-ma 15 Seasons Comedy, Drama Charlie Day, Glenn Howerton, Rob McElhenney Rob McElhenney watch on Hulu watch on Hulu Read less Best shows on Netflix Best shows on HBO Max Best shows on Amazon Prime Best movies on Hulu Dopesick (2021) tv-ma 1 Season Drama Michael Keaton, Peter Sarsgaard, Michael Stuhlbarg Danny Strong watch on Hulu watch on Hulu Read less Legion (2017) tv-ma 3 Seasons Action & Adventure, Sci-Fi & Fantasy Dan Stevens, Rachel Keller, Aubrey Plaza Noah Hawley watch on Hulu watch on Hulu Read less The X-Files (1993) tv-ma 11 Seasons Sci-Fi & Fantasy, Mystery, Crime David Duchovny, Gillian Anderson, Mitch Pileggi Chris Carter watch on Hulu watch on Hulu Read less Sons of Anarchy (2008) tv-ma 7 Seasons Crime, Drama, Thriller Charlie Hunnam, Katey Sagal, Tommy Flanagan Kurt Sutter watch on Hulu watch on Hulu Read less Broad City (2014) tv-14 5 Seasons Comedy, Drama Abbi Jacobson, Ilana Glazer, Hannibal Buress Ilana Glazer, Abbi Jacobson watch on Hulu watch on Hulu Read less Arrested Development (2003) tv-14 5 Seasons Comedy Jason Bateman, Portia de Rossi, Will Arnett Mitchell Hurwitz watch on Hulu watch on Hulu Read less Best shows on Netflix Best shows on HBO Max Best shows on Amazon Prime Best movies on Hulu Cowboy Bebop (1998) tv-14 1 Season Action, Adventure, Animation Koichi Yamadera, Unsho Ishizuka, Megumi Hayashibara Hajime Yatate watch on Hulu watch on Hulu Read less Editors' Recommendations The best Hulu original series right now The 50 best anime on Hulu right now The best feel-good movies on Netflix right now The best movies on Hulu right now (November 2023) Best new movies to stream on Netflix, Hulu, Prime Video, Max (HBO), and more Best Products Hulu Streaming Guides Streaming Services Movie images and data from: Entertainment When you need to keep the kids occupied for a while, it's helpful to know the best kids movies on Netflix right now.
Netflix has an enormous library of kid-friendly content, including a host of original choose-your-own-adventure stories, but it's natural as a parent to want to know what your kids is watching. So, to help you find something quickly, we keep tabs on the collection every month and surface the best options here.
Entertainment There's nothing better than a long holiday weekend to catch up on your favorite films on Netflix. This weekend has a particularly strong lineup that includes the streaming debut of David Fincher's The Killer, which was briefly in theaters last month. Additionally, the horror title, Insidious: The Red Door, has some post-Halloween scares, while Spider-Man: Across the Spider-Verse remains one of the best options for movie lovers of all ages.
Want to stay on top of everything new on Netflix? Every week on Friday, we go over the newly available films to update our list of the best movies on Netflix right now.
Entertainment First, the good news: the actors' strike is over. The bad news is that a combined six-plus months of strikes in Hollywood means there's bound to be a slowdown in new shows in 2024. But since we're still living in 2023 for the next month-and-a-half, we've still got plenty of fresh scripted content to enjoy. This week, we're throwing the spotlight on Apple TV+'s signature series, For All Mankind, Max's Rap Sh!t, and Netflix's Blue Eye Samurai, an anime show that seems to be on the verge of becoming a crossover hit.
Netflix, Amazon Prime Video, Hulu, Max, Apple TV+, Disney+, Paramount+, and Peacock have spent a lot of money keeping us in fresh new shows week after week. Unfortunately, that's why most of those streaming services are hiking their rates. That's why we suggest going with the ad-supported tiers. In the meantime, keep reading for our weekly roundup of the best new shows to stream.
When you're done here, check out the best new movies to stream this week, as well as the best shows on Netflix, best shows on Hulu, best shows on Amazon Prime Video, and best shows on Disney+.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
