Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix F1 Live Stream Stranger Things Season 5 Best New Movies Most Popular Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney+ UFC Live Stream Best Movies on Disney+ Home Entertainment Features Deep Water review: A slow burn without any fire By Jason Struss Close The late ’80s and early 19900s were the golden age for erotic thrillers.
 From Jagged Edge to Basic Instinct to The Last Seduction , the genre flourished in an age when the box office was driven by sex, violence, and just how far filmmakers could push the R rating. The best of these movies offered titillation with a subtle dose of social commentary and female empowerment. The worst simply used gratuitous nudity as an excuse to sell a shopworn plot.
A promising start A quick descent into mediocrity An unforgivable final act A disappointing coda Adrian Lyne was the master of this genre. His most famous film, 1987’s Fatal Attraction , told the tale of an unfaithful husband and the undoing of his mistress. A kid was kidnapped, a bunny was boiled, and the wife got revenge in a cheap yet effective finale that is still talked about today. His best film, 2002’s Unfaithful , dug deeper into a marriage almost undone by a momentary impulse of desire. His newest film, Deep Water , is his first in 20 years, and seems to possess his usual obsessions with love and infidelity in a bourgeois marriage. Yet unlike his other films, Deep Water lacks the polish, logic, or coherence that made his other works so entertaining (and occasionally resonant). It may be the first erotic thriller in history that contains no eroticism and zero thrills.
A promising start Image used with permission by copyright holder For its first 30 minutes, Deep Water holds some promise. Taking a cue from Stanley Kubrick’s Eyes Wide Shut , the movie opens at a decadent party where the central married couple (Ben Affleck’s Vic and Ana de Armas’ Melinda) circle each other warily. It’s quickly established that Vic is a cuckold, reduced to watching helplessly as his wife seduces a younger and blonder man. Joel (Brendan C. Miller). in front of their friends. Vic’s stoic demeanor cracks only in a private conversation with Joel, whom he informs casually, and without hesitation, that he has killed Melinda’s former lover, who has been missing for a while.
Is Vic joking to ward off another of Melinda’s many conquests? Or is he serious and warning the young man of his fate if he continues his affair? Lyne plays with this uncertainty well in the first act of the movie, never letting us know if Vic deserves our sympathy or our fear. The director is also good at hinting at the couple’s kinky nature that lays just beneath the polished, bourgeois surface. Their frequent fights, in Crate & Barrel furnished bedrooms or shiny luxury vehicles, are punctuated by sudden bursts of desire, and there’s hope that the director that brought us the fridge scene in 9 1/2 Weeks is back to his old tricks again.
A quick descent into mediocrity Image used with permission by copyright holder After another of Melinda’s lovers is murdered, and the killer is definitively revealed to the audience, the movie quickly loses all momentum and interest in building tension, mood, and eroticism. Without spoiling too much, the plot’s mechanics are such that characters who were once established as highly intelligent (not just Affleck’s computer whiz Vic, but also Tracy Letts’ slumming screenwriter and Finn Wittrock’s entrepreneur) now have to operate as idiots to make the story’s twists and turns make sense. De Armas’ Melinda fares worse; whereas once she was mysterious and alluring in the film’s opening scenes, she’s later at various points violent, neurotic, hysterical, and heartbroken. Her emotions change from scene to scene not because of her fractured personality. but rather because of what the story needs her to be to move the plot along.
It’s not just the characters that are betrayed by the plot mechanics. The intriguing themes and atmosphere that Lyne set up so well in the beginning are tossed aside. The erotic games that the couple initiate in the beginning, which have been used as the primary hook in the film’s marketing campaign, are abandoned in favor of inexplicable scenes with Vic nursing snails in his basement. [Snails are used heavily throughout the movie for some reason, as both a stand-in for Vic’s love for his wife and as a possible murder weapon.] Plot threads exploring Vic’s morality due to his involvement in developing war drones are dropped without any further development. Melinda’s background isn’t touched upon, and her nontraditional marriage to Vic is reduced to a standard depiction of a couple that barely knows each other, let alone loves one another enough to justify later plot developments.
The script by Zach Helm and Sam Levinson fails its actors and director by prioritizing cheap shocks and a high body count at the expense of fully realizing Lyne’s introductory portrait of a marriage that is gradually undone by suspicion and obsession. Adapted from a 1957 novel by Patricia Highsmith, the screenplay keeps all of the famous mystery novelist’s bad tendencies (unexplained coincidences, illogical murders) without retaining any of her celebrated nuance and attention to character.
An unforgivable final act Image used with permission by copyright holder While the film’s middle act lets down its promising intro, it doesn’t quite prepare viewers for the final act twist, which turns Deep Water from a disappointing yet forgettable exercise into an unintentional comedy of errors and dumb luck. Logic has already been strained at this point, as the killer seems to get away with a lot of murders, all committed in public with people nearby, without the police noticing. A key character has a good suspicion as to who the murderer is, yet invites danger to themselves and others by encouraging more people to interact with the killer. Yet none of these transgressions ever cross the line into comedy, and threaten to make the film camp, until the last 15 minutes, which abandons any pretense of sensibility or restraint (and is noticeably different from the original novel’s ending).
The climax is a howler, a knee-slapper for the ages. It requires two characters to act so stupidly, so illogically, that one wonders if they are even the same people we were introduced to in the beginning. They are then tasked to do something I cannot reveal, but suffice to say, it has to be seen to be believed — and even then, you’re left wondering if it actually happened. It makes the film’s earlier overuse of snails seem almost witty and restrained.
A disappointing coda Lyne is 81 years old, and spent almost 10 years developing this project. It’s a disappointing coda to an entertaining career that brought us such modern trash staples as Flashdance and Indecent Proposal.
 None of those films were great, but they were at least entertaining and acknowledged their own ridiculousness. C Flashdance ‘s Alex was a steel welder by day and a stripper by night!) Every so often, Lyne would make a Jacob’s Ladder or an Unfaithful , films that eschewed camp and took their subject matter seriously without getting too stuffy about it.
Deep Water is his first outright failure in a nearly 50-year old career. It doesn’t have the cheap thrills and easy sensuality of a 9 1/2 Weeks , nor does it have the dramatic intensity of a Unfaithful.
 Instead, it has some well-directed scenes and committed performers that are betrayed by half-baked ideas, a lousy script, and an unintentionally hilarious ending. It’s not a good sign when you leave a movie like this laughing at it instead of with it.
Editors' Recommendations Ben Affleck and Ana De Armas play deadly games in Deep Water Features Entertainment November has been a great month for movies at Netflix, with the premiere of David Fincher's The Killer, and recent box office hits like Insidious: The Red Door and Spider-Man: Across the Spider-Verse. This week, the new additions include The Impossible, a 2012 survival thriller that has already landed on the list of the 10 most popular movies on Netflix. For younger viewers, Minions is also heating up the charts despite the pending departure of the other films in the franchise at the end of the month.
There's only one holiday weekend left in November, so what's the best way to stay on top of everything new on Netflix? Why, we are, of course. Our list of the best movies on Netflix right now is updated every Friday, even on holiday weekends, so you can easily find something for every movie lover in your life.
Entertainment Summer is long over, and the fall season is in full swing. It's now late 2023, and just about everyone is subscribed to Netflix and Hulu. But would you be surprised if I told you one of the most underrated streaming services around is Tubi? The upstart streamer has tons of new and old TV shows from every decade and every genre imaginable. Want to watch the buzziest series that aired on Max? Tubi has it. Are you feeling nostalgic about that old movie or cartoon you used to watch as a kid in the '80s or '90s? Chances are, Tubi has it.
Tubi has so much content that it can be hard to choose which shows and films are worth your time. Digital Trends is here to help you sort out which ones are worth watching. Even though the streaming service is free, time is valuable, and no one wants to waste it watching subpar content.
Entertainment Rather than waiting for the Thanksgiving holiday weekend, Apple TV+ and Netflix dropped two of their biggest shows of the fall this week. Netflix's The Crown kicked off its sixth and final season with four new episodes, while the Apple TV+ Godzilla-adjacent series Monarch: Legacy of Monster, dropped its first two episodes this week, with new episodes arriving weekly thereafter. Also this week, Scott Pilgrim Takes Off hits Netflix, while Max gets in on the act this week by premiering the second season of Julia.
Netflix, Amazon Prime Video, Hulu, Max, Apple TV+, Disney+, Paramount+, and Peacock still have new shows coming for the rest of November, including a handful arriving next week. But if you've been thinking about cutting back on your streaming bill, then perhaps you should consider signing up for the ad-supported tiers. In the meantime, keep reading for our weekly roundup of the best new shows to stream.
When you're done here, check out the best new movies to stream this week, as well as the best shows on Netflix, best shows on Hulu, best shows on Amazon Prime Video, and best shows on Disney+.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
