Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix F1 Live Stream Stranger Things Season 5 Best New Movies Most Popular Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney+ UFC Live Stream Best Movies on Disney+ Home Entertainment Guides Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? All the Indiana Jones movies, ranked from worst to best By Dan Girolamo Close It’s the final countdown for Harrison Ford and his portrayal as a master adventurer and professor of archaeology, Indiana Jones.
 Ford will reprise his role as Indy one final time in the upcoming Indiana Jones and the Dial of Destiny.
 Directed by Logan’s James Mangold, Indy squares off against the Nazis again, but this time, it’s 1969 amid the space race between the United States and Russia. His mission: retrieve the Archimedes Dial, a time travel device, before it gets into the hands of Jürgen Voller (Mads Mikkelsen), a former Nazi working for NASA.
It has yet to be seen if Dial of Destiny will be a worthy swan song for Ford. However, the previous four films, especially the original trilogy, will live on forever. There’s a timeless aspect to Indiana Jones movies where the Raiders , Temple of Doom , and Last Crusade still look great and don’t feel dated despite being filmed in the 1980s and set in the 1930s. Before we add Dial of Destiny to the rankings, here are the previous four Indiana Jones movies ranked from worst to best.
Note: All four films are available to stream on Disney+ and Paramount+.
Harrison Ford’s 7 best movies, ranked by Rotten Tomatoes score Is Indiana Jones and the Dial of Destiny streaming? The best Indiana Jones villains, ranked 4. Indiana Jones and the Kingdom of the Crystal Skull (2008) Paramount Pictures / Paramount Pictures Indiana Jones and the Kingdom of the Crystal Skull is last on most (if not all) Indiana Jones rankings.
Kingdom of Crystal Skull relies too much on CGI, taking away the authentic feeling of the stunts provided in the first three films. Lucas, Spielberg, and Ford argued quite a bit about the direction of the fourth film. Lucas’ decision to introduce interdimensional beings in the Kingdom of Crystal Skull was ineffective and head-scratching. It was a decision Spielberg fought against before his loyalty to Lucas won out. Indiana Jones is about religion and archaeology, not aliens.
However, Kingdom of Crystal Skull is not that bad. Spielberg still expertly crafts the film’s exciting action sequences, including the motorcycle chase on the college campus. And Ford is still really good at playing Jones. You can tell by the excitement on his face that he still loves this character. Shia LaBeouf, who stars as Indy’s son Mutt, has a complicated relationship with the film. Yet, LaBeouf is not as bad as he thinks.
Kingdom of the Crystal Skull may be a misfire, but it’s not a dumpster fire like some other recent blockbusters.
3. Indiana Jones and the Temple of Doom (1984) Image used with permission by copyright holder Temple of Doom is the overwhelming answer for the least-liked of the three original films. Yes, there are problematic elements of racism and sexism throughout the film that are too glaring to brush off. Culturally insensitive moments aside, part of the reason Temple of Doom does not work for some involves Indy’s character. In Raiders , Indy is a noble adventurer willing to risk his life to protect the sacred relics of the world. In Temple of Doom , Indy is quite the opposite. He’s selfish, egotistical, and materialistic, as evidenced by his eagerness to sell an artifact for a diamond in the opening moments.
It’s easy to forget that Temple of Doom is a prequel to Raiders of the Lost Ark and that helps to explain why the noble Indiana Jones in Raiders of the Lost Ark is nowhere to be found in Temple of Doom.
 Indy has yet to learn those lessons about honor and sacrifice as he still seeks fortune and glory in the prequel.
Temple of Doom is also the darkest entry in the franchise. From Indy’s zombielike “possession” to the human sacrifices by the villainous Mola Ram (Amrish Puri), Temple of Doom is a fascinating rewatch, considering the transformation that Indy will eventually complete going into Raiders.
2. Indiana Jones and the Last Crusade (1989) Image used with permission by copyright holder After going back in time for the prequel, Temple of Doom , Last Crusade picks up two years after the events of the Raiders.
 Indy learns that his father, Henry Jones Sr. (Sean Connery), has gone missing. Henry has been searching for the Holy Grail, a magical cup believed to have healing powers and the ability to grant eternal life. Henry has been kidnapped by the Nazis, who also seek the Grail. Walter Donovan (Julian Glover), Henry’s financial backer, tasks Indy with finding his father and the Grail.
Last Crusade is as much of a father-son movie as an adventure movie, so it helps that Ford and Connery make the perfect father-son combo. Their attitudes and mannerisms feel like they come from the same family. Ford and Connery are very funny, something you wouldn’t expect from the actors who played the sarcastic Han Solo and dashing James Bond. In addition, the opening sequence featuring River Phoenix as a young Indiana Jones is one of the most memorable sequences in the entire franchise. With the wrong actor, it’s a cheesy flashback. With Phoenix in the role of the future adventurer, it’s a wild and entertaining sequence that explains the origins of Indiana Jones.
1. Raiders of the Lost Ark (1981) Image via Paramount Pictures It’s rare to find a perfect movie, but Raiders of the Lost Ark come close to being absolutely flawless. Everyone from the crew to the cast is at the top of their games. Every scene in the film makes sense. There’s a protagonist on the hero’s journey as the antagonist tries to take down the star. The action and adventure elements are nonstop.
The adventures of Indiana Jones became an instant classic upon Raiders of the Lost Ark’s release in 1981. The partnership between Lucas, Spielberg, and Ford is seamless, as Raiders catches the three icons of Hollywood on the upslope of their careers. The plot of Raiders’ is easy to digest: Indy must find the Ark of the Covenant before the Nazis find it. From the terrific opening sequence to the exhilarating truck chase, Raiders is the type of movie magic that turns kids into dreamers and adults into nostalgic believers. 40-plus years later, Raiders remains perfect.
Editors' Recommendations 10 worst action heroes ever, ranked The 5 best scenes in the Indiana Jones franchise, ranked Does Indy die at the end of Indiana Jones and the Dial of Destiny? 5 adventure movies to watch before Indiana Jones and the Dial of Destiny Where to watch all the Indiana Jones movies and TV series Action Entertainment In Raiders of the Lost Ark, Harrison Ford's Indiana Jones famously said "It's not the years, honey, it's the mileage," when referring to the wear and tear on his body. That was over four decades ago, and there's been a considerable amount of "mileage" since then. This is one of the reasons why Indiana Jones and the Dial of Destiny will be Ford's final time in the role. And if the final trailer is any indication, it might be Indy's last adventure as well.
Indiana Jones and the Dial of Destiny | Official Trailer Entertainment After years of development, Disney and Lucasfilm finally released the first trailer for the hotly anticipated Indiana Jones 5, which is now titled Indiana Jones and the Dial of Destiny. The title announcement and trailer reveal occurred at Brazil's Comic Con.
Harrison Ford reprises his role as Dr. Indiana Jones, the iconic archeologist and adventurer who debuted in 1981's Raiders of the Lost Ark. The film will be set during the Space Race of 1969 as the U.s. and the Soviet Union battle for global supremacy. The nostalgic trailer highlights the exciting action and adventure that viewers have come to love throughout the franchise's 40-year history.
Entertainment Everyone's favorite swashbuckling archaeologist is headed back to the big screen in the upcoming fifth installment of the Indiana Jones franchise, which began pre-production in December. The sequel -- unofficially known as Indiana Jones 5 -- will bring back Harrison Ford as Dr. Henry "Indiana" Jones, with franchise creator George Lucas on board as executive producer. Director Steven Spielberg will not be behind the camera, however, as he turns the reins over to Logan director James Mangold.
With the film currently scheduled to hit theaters in July 2022, here's everything we know about Indiana Jones 5 so far.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
