Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix F1 Live Stream Stranger Things Season 5 Best New Movies Most Popular Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney+ UFC Live Stream Best Movies on Disney+ Home Entertainment Guides Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? 7 most likable New Girl characters, ranked By Carson Burton Close New Girl is a show that lives and dies by its lovable and hilarious characters. The long-running show, which is currently available for streaming on both Hulu and Peacock , has a unique ability to illustrate each character to their fullest, making each feel like a friend to the viewers. What results is a sitcom that feels like we’re sitting in the loft right beside all of our favorite friends.
7. Coach (Damon Wayans Jr.) 6. Cece Parekh (Hannah Simone) 5. Robby McFerrin (Nelson Franklin) 4. Jessica Day (Zooey Deschanel) 3. Winston Bishop (Lamorne Morris) 2. Winston Schmidt (Max Greenfield) 1. Nick Miller (Jake Johnson) While there are countless memorable characters in New Girl , a few stand above the rest. The main gang is full of eccentric and unique personalities; from Winston’s awkwardness to Jess’s bubbliness, each character is fully defined within the loft world. All of the characters are likable in their own ways, but each can still separate themselves as entirely unique. There’s something for every viewer to relate to, whether you have a go-getter personality like Cece or are a timid, yet hilarious person like Nick.
7. Coach (Damon Wayans Jr.) Image used with permission by copyright holder An oft-overlooked character in the main gang, Coach’s blend of blunt eccentricity and weird quirkiness result in a silly character whose hard exterior begets a softer core. The first few episodes of New Girl ‘s seven-season run make Coach out to be a pretty unlikable tough guy, but as the show goes on, Coach becomes more and more likable.
7 most underrated Succession episodes ever, ranked What’s new on Apple TV+ this month (November 2023) 7 hilarious, but underrated sitcom moments you need to watch again He’s hilarious and has a huge heart, even if he still struggles with his emotions. Coach’s outbursts and relative inability to meaningfully connect emotionally with most people in the show are a lovely counterpoint to characters like Jess or Winston. Without Coach, the gang wouldn’t feel the same in the slightest.
6. Cece Parekh (Hannah Simone) Image used with permission by copyright holder Similar to Coach, Cece can be a bit of a tough cookie at times. She similarly likes to showcase a tough, glamorous exterior and only seems to care about a handful of people. However, viewers all know that the real Cece is more than meets the eye. She’s always herself in every way, and she never has a dull scene.
Cece always brings a certain energy to the room, but she never feels off-putting. She’s funny, blunt, and exceedingly charming; I guess it makes sense why Schmidt is absolutely hooked on her.
5. Robby McFerrin (Nelson Franklin) Image used with permission by copyright holder As far as secondary characters go, it’s hard to find a more likable guy than Robby, who first showed up in season 2 after Cece and Schmidt broke up at the end of season 1. And it was clear from the get-go that Robby was basically the direct opposite of Schmidt in every way. He’s a giant teddy bear, just a straight-up nice guy who never fails to warm our hearts every time he appears on screen.
Later in the series, when Robby dated Jess, viewers also learn that there’s a lot more to Robby than meets the eye; he once saved Elon Musk’s life, there’s a PBS documentary about him, and he apparently played bass with Carlos Santana. Robby is a mysterious fella, but it’s just impossible to hate him.
4. Jessica Day (Zooey Deschanel) Image used with permission by copyright holder Jess has always been the core of New Girl , and her exceedingly bubbly nature never fails to provide viewers with a lovable friend to focus on. Jess always sees the good in people and is a ray of sunshine covered in polka dots and glitter. She wears her immense heart on her chest and never fails to make people laugh thanks to her clumsy, ditsy nature.
While Jess’ character is nearly impossible to hate, it may come as a surprise to some fans out there that she’s not at the top of the list. However, some of Jess’s best pals have the edge on her thanks to their outstandingly unique and hilarious personalities.
3. Winston Bishop (Lamorne Morris) Image used with permission by copyright holder Winston might also be the most cringe-inducing character on this list, but there really isn’t a mean bone in this man’s body. He’s one of the sweetest and most selfless characters out there, and he never fails to be himself — even if that means making all of us roll our eyes at his cringe.
Winston is like the male version of Jess, with his eccentricity and kindness separating himself from the more hard-edged characters like Cece or Coach. His smile is contagious, and it’s impossible to hate the loft’s biggest cat lover.
2. Winston Schmidt (Max Greenfield) Image used with permission by copyright holder Even though he’s one of the weirdest and most arrogant characters of the bunch, there’s no question that Schmidt is one of the most likable characters in all of New Girl.
 It’s difficult to pin down what makes Schmidt, the heavily opinionated womanizer wh undoubtedly loves the sound of his own voice, such a lovable character, but he never fails to make fans laugh.
Schmidt’s hilarity comes from his arrogance and selfishness, and it’s easy to love him for his faults. He knows who he is, making it easier for fans to appreciate him in his entirety. Although he is definitely a softie at heart, Schmidt is not even close to the nicest character on this list. But that’s exactly what makes him so hilariously likable.
1. Nick Miller (Jake Johnson) Image used with permission by copyright holder Who better to top this list than the one-and-only Nick Miller? Frequently cited as a fan favorite of the series, Nick is hard to put in a box. He is undeniably hilarious and quirky, even if he sometimes makes viewers want to pull out their hair out of frustration. Nick is one of New Girl ‘s funniest characters, from his undeniably gross housekeeping tendencies to his do-it-yourself conviction.
The core of New Girl has always rested on the shoulders of Nick and Jess, and there couldn’t be a better guy in the loft to take on the spotlight. Nick is always himself, even if that means grossing all of us out at times. Nick not only won Jess’s heart in New Girl , but he’s also won the hearts of basically every fan out there.
All seven seasons of New Girl are currently available for streaming on Hulu and Peacock.
Editors' Recommendations 7 most underrated Breaking Bad episodes ever, ranked Where to watch the 2023 New York City Marathon live stream 7 most underrated Suits episodes ever, ranked 5 sitcoms on Hulu that are perfect to watch in the summer Where to watch The Real Housewives of New York City season 14 Hulu Streaming Services Entertainment Summer is in full swing, and while you might be spending more time outdoors or watching a classic summer movie, there are still plenty of great TV shows to check out in July. This month, you can look forward to shows returning with their newest (and in some cases last) seasons as well as exciting new originals.
Once the Fourth of July weekend is behind you (or even during the much-needed time off), curl up at night with the lights down low, a cup of tea or glass of wine, and some tasty popcorn, and turn on one of these shows that are must-watches for July.
Black Mirror season 6 (June 15) Black Mirror: Season 6 | Official Trailer | Netflix Entertainment Wes Anderson is one of the most distinct directors out there, with everything from his curious framing to his whimsical dialogue separating him as a truly unique visual artist. Anderson also has a knack for creating moving and odd, yet endlessly memorable, characters.
Ever since Anderson made his directorial debut with Bottle Rocket back in 1996, the filmmaker has showcased a unique ability to create curious characters on the page and on the screen. The dialogue and the actors' performances, of course, are integral to each character. However, Anderson's unique visual flair is also able to accentuate the characters, highlighting their importance while also showcasing their flaws.
Entertainment Even though The Flash didn't reach the unrealistically lofty ambitions that some might have thought it would, it was at least an admirable and lively adventure to bring the DC Extended Universe to a close. It featured an action-heavy crossover between several landmark DC heroes, with Michael Keaton's return as Batman the most noteworthy in the Flash's supporting cast.
But regarding sheer strength, The Flash played with a sandbox of metahumans. Sasha Calle's debut as Supergirl already shot her up the ranks, but the return of General Zod and a certain Amazonian Princess round out a powerful weight class of notable characters.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
