Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix F1 Live Stream Stranger Things Season 5 Best New Movies Most Popular Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney+ UFC Live Stream Best Movies on Disney+ Home Entertainment Reviews Prey review: a fresh spin on the Predator franchise By Rick Marshall Close Ever since their first brawl with Arnold Schwarzenegger in 1987’s Predator , the extraterrestrial hunters at the heart of the Predator franchise have found their way back to the big screen time and time again. And like the films’ titular, alien antagonists, the seven-film franchise often seems unstoppable, overcoming negative reviews, middling box-office numbers , and even a few terrible crossovers to return with a new twist every few years.
Although none of the installments have matched the success of the original film so far, a few have come close. That extremely small list includes the latest film in the franchise, Prey , which offers one of the most intriguing, well-executed twists on the series’ mythology so far.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Directed by Dan Trachtenberg ( 10 Cloverfield Lane ) from a script by Patrick Aison ( Treadstone ), Prey is set in 1719 and follows a young Comanche woman whose desire to be recognized as a warrior puts her in the path of a powerful, mysterious hunter. Spoiler: it’s a Predator.
5 action movies like The Expendables franchise 5 Margot Robbie movies and TV shows you need to watch The School for Good and Evil review: Middling magic The cast of Prey is led by Amber Midthunder ( Legion ) as Naru, a skilled hunter challenging traditional gender roles with her fighting skills and strategic mind. She’s joined by Dakota Beavers as Taabe, Naru’s brother and a well-established warrior and hunter.
Midthunder not only carries the film, but does so with impressive ease. It’s no surprise that the film features plenty of action sequences, but what is a pleasant surprise is how comfortable Midthunder looks in all of them — whether she’s battling a human, a bear, or a monstrous alien with a lethal, high-tech arsenal. She’s a natural in the hero role, and pitting her character against the massive extraterrestrial antagonist (played by former basketball player, now actor Dane DiLiegro) makes her stunt work — and as a result, Naru’s fighting skills — look even more impressive.
Image used with permission by copyright holder The level of testosterone in Prey (or just about any film, for that matter) couldn’t hope to match that of the star-filled 1987 film with its constant stream of sweaty, bulging muscles and alpha-male banter, but like its protagonist (and unlike many of the sequels and spin-offs before it), the film doesn’t try to beat Predator at its own game.
Prey filters the terrifying experience of being hunted by a Predator through a new lens with its setting, its protagonists, and its attitude toward the relationship between hunters and the hunted. The Indigenous characters portrayed by Midthunder, Beavers, and many of the film’s other cast members view the world around them differently than the protagonists of prior Predator films, and that unique perspective makes Prey feel like a different film, too.
What Trachtenberg does carry over from past installments of the franchise is equally important, too.
Various Predator films over the years have struggled with the need to up the explosive ante, often going too far overboard in powering up the monstrous alien hunters in order to make the stakes feel higher or the threat more dire. Unlike nearly all of those films (with the possible exception of 2010’s Predators ), Prey takes a different angle on the human-Predator dynamic — one that more closely echoes that of the original film.
Image used with permission by copyright holder In setting the film in 1719, Prey effectively de-powers its human protagonists, stripping them of the high-tech weaponry and armor that turned the franchise into an escalating arms race over the years. Naru, Taabe, and the rest of the film’s human characters fight with hatchets, spears, arrows, and — at their most explosive — awkward, muzzle-loaded rifles. That mismatch turns their survival into a battle of wits and strategy instead of a war of technological attrition.
Often forgotten amid all of the biceps, gunfire, and one-liners of director John McTiernan’s original 1987 film is the fact that Schwarzenegger’s protagonist didn’t outmuscle or out-gun Predator ‘s titular antagonist. He out-thought it. He observed it and used what he discovered along with his knowledge of the environment to gain an advantage. Trachtenberg clearly understands that aspect of the first film’s appeal, and puts that knowledge to good use in Prey.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Despite being technological underdogs in their battle against the Predator, Naru and Taabe never feel hopelessly overmatched in the film. The odds are stacked against them, certainly, but there’s a sense that their awareness of the advantages they do have — and their ability to tap into them — give them a better chance at survival than the typical meathead mercenaries and trigger-happy characters that the franchise typically throws at the Predators.
In channeling that same, stripped-down vibe of the original Predator through a new protagonist with a different set of skills and relationship to the environment (or in this case, hunting grounds), Prey manages to both go back to the franchise’s roots and deliver something new. That’s not an easy balance to strike, but Trachtenberg and the film’s talented cast pull it off remarkably well. Easily the best film since the original, Prey suggests there’s still plenty of untapped potential in the Predator franchise.
Directed by Dan Trachtenberg, Prey premieres August 5 on Hulu.
Prey (2022) 100m Action, Thriller Amber Midthunder, Dakota Beavers, Dane DiLiegro Dan Trachtenberg watch on Hulu watch on Hulu Editors' Recommendations 7 biggest flaws of the most popular movie franchises, ranked 7 franchises that need a reboot right now 5 sci-fi movies on Hulu that are perfect to watch in the summer Slash/Back review: The kids are all right (especially when fighting aliens) Rosaline review: Kaitlyn Dever lifts up Hulu’s Romeo and Juliet rom-com riff Movie images and data from: Entertainment Well, that's finally over.
Filmmaker David Gordon Green's revival of the Halloween franchise, which started out strong with 2018's Halloween before stumbling with 2021's Halloween Kills, wraps up with this year's appropriately titled Halloween Ends, a film intended to be the swan song for both his trilogy and original Halloween star Jamie Lee Curtis' involvement with the franchise. And while Green's final installment manages to salvage some of the series' appeal, Halloween Ends ultimately falls short of realizing the trilogy's initial potential.
Entertainment With its lush sets and perpetually probing camera, Decision to Leave looks and moves like any other Park Chan-wook film, but it reverberates with the same untempered passion present in Golden Age noirs like In a Lonely Place and Double Indemnity. Unlike those two films, though, which center their stories around a hot-tempered screenwriter and naïve insurance salesman, respectively, Decision to Leave follows another common noir archetype: the lovelorn detective (played here by Park Hae-il).
In the film’s opening moments, Hae-jun, the detective in question, lands a case involving the mysterious death of a recreational rock climber. The case, in typical noir fashion, leads to Hae-jun crossing paths with Seo-rae (a spellbinding Tang Wei), his victim’s gorgeous but eccentric widow. Perturbed by how disinterested she is in unpacking her abusive husband’s death, Hae-jun begins to tail and spy on Seo-rae, unaware that doing so will only further intensify his attraction to her. As far as noir plots go, this is about as familiar as it gets. With its nods to Hitchcock and lightly self-aware attitude, Decision to Leave makes it clear that it doesn’t mind treading the same narrative terrain as so many of the noir classics that have come before it, either.
Entertainment At a time when anti-Semitic extremists are storming the U.S Capitol, running for office, and declaring war on Jewish people via social media, it might not be the best time for a movie that expects you to sympathize with Nazis. And yet, that hasn't stopped Operation Seawolf from sailing into theaters and on-demand streaming services this month.
The film, which follows the crew of a German U-boat during the waning days of World War II, casts Dolph Lundgren (Rocky IV) as German war hero Capt. Hans Kessler, who's ordered to lead the Nazis' remaining U-boats on a desperate (and likely fatal) mission to attack the U.S. on its own soil. As he and his crew make their way toward New York City in one final bid to turn the tide of war, Kessler finds himself struggling with both the internal politics of the ship and his own sense of duty as the Third Reich crumbles around him.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
