Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix F1 Live Stream Stranger Things Season 5 Best New Movies Most Popular Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney+ UFC Live Stream Best Movies on Disney+ Home Entertainment Reviews Ted Lasso season 3 review: back and bigger than ever By Alex Welch Close Reliably standout performances from Hannah Waddingham, Brett Goldstein, and Jason Sudeikis An emotionally charged central conflict A heightened, introspective tone that feels genuinely earned Several superfluous storylines Episodes that feel consistently overlong Near the end of one of the first episodes of Ted Lasso season 3 , the curmudgeonly Roy Kent (Brett Goldstein) looks back on his decision to leave behind his longtime football club, Chelsea F.C., with palpable regret. Roy made the decision to do so the moment he began to feel like his age was slowing him down because, as Jason Sudeikis’ Ted puts it, he felt it’d be better to quit than be fired. Now, though, Roy admits, “There’s a part of me that thinks I should have stayed, and just enjoyed myself.” The scene, which is spell-bindingly well-written and performed, is one of several introspective moments featured in the opening installments of Ted Lasso season 3. The award-winning, fan-favorite Apple TV+ original series returns this year from its nearly two-year-long break with a season that, whether it does or doesn’t end up being its last, certainly feels primed to be. The show has, by no means, ever been afraid of indulging in the kind of introspective scenes like the one described above. However, such moments have never felt quite as mature or measured as they do in Ted Lasso season 3.
Apple TV+ Ted Lasso season 3 begins, like the two seasons before it, on the verge of a new football season. For Sudeikis’ Ted, the commencement of another football season has made him start to seriously question why he’s still living in England, an entire ocean away from his son, Henry, and his ex-wife, Michelle (Andrea Anders). Ted originally moved to England so that he and Michelle could see if some space could fix their crumbling marriage. Now that he and Michelle are divorced, though, the Ted Lasso season 3 premiere finds Sudeikis’ ever-optimistic coach suddenly confused about his continued purpose in England.
To make matters worse, the forthcoming football season is loaded with higher stakes than either of the previous two Ted has coached his team, AFC Richmond, through. Following the climactic events of its season 2 finale, Ted Lasso returns with Ted and his former protégé, Nate (Nick Mohammed), in charge of two opposing teams. The self-imposed dissolution of his friendship with Ted has made Nate particularly eager to crush his former football team. Ted, for his part, doesn’t seem all that concerned with beating Nate.
The same cannot be said, however, for Ted’s friend and boss, Rebecca (Hannah Waddingham), who is desperate to see her, Ted, and AFC Richmond crush Nate’s team, West Ham United, and its owner, her misogynistic ex-husband Rupert (Anthony Head). Previously, the football seasons in Ted Lasso have always felt a bit like an afterthought. While the show’s central sport certainly isn’t the main focus of its third season, either, Rupert’s role as Nate’s boss adds more emotional stakes to Ted Lasso ’s latest football season than either of the series’ previous two.
Apple TV+ Rebecca’s heightened investment in ensuring that Rupert and his team do not humiliate her, Ted, and AFC Richmond also clears the way for Waddingham and Sudeikis to share more scenes together in Ted Lasso season 3 than they did in the show’s ambitious but uneven second. As gimmicky as it was, Rebecca and Ted’s rivalry-turned-friendship was one of the strongest aspects of Ted Lasso ’s acclaimed first season, so it’s a genuine delight to get to see Waddingham and Sudeikis share the screen more often in the series’ newest episodes. It doesn’t hurt that both Waddingham and Sudeikis continue to turn in two of the best performances that Ted Lasso has to offer, either.
While Rebecca and Ted’s stories feel more focused this season, the same cannot necessarily be said for the show itself. Like so many TV sitcoms before it, Ted Lasso made the mistake at the end of its second season of setting several of its characters on different paths from each other.
Ted Lasso season 3, consequently, tries to split its focus between the continued goings-on at AFC Richmond, Nate’s adventures at West Ham United, and the new PR start-up run by Keeley Jones (Juno Temple). As a result, the first four installments of Ted Lasso season 3 feel occasionally scattered and overblown.
The season’s multiple storylines have also forced Ted Lasso ‘s episodic runtimes to expand yet again (not a single one of the episodes that were provided early to critics clocked in under 40 minutes). While all of the show’s characters remain as likable as ever, too, not all of its storylines are as compelling as others. The series’ decision to introduce superfluous new subplots surrounding longtime characters like Colin Hughes (Billy Harris) and Thierry Zoreaux (Moe Jeudy-Lamour), for instance, only makes Ted Lasso ’s latest season feel even more bloated at times.
Apple TV+ Despite the few narrative missteps its new season makes, Ted Lasso hasn’t lost the winning sense of humor and sincerity that made it such a surprise hit in the first place. Its increased focus this year on Roy, Ted, and Rebecca, in particular, helps Ted Lasso season 3 feel more emotionally precise than the show’s previous seasons.
Sudeikis’ Ted is still, as he says, very much a “work in prog-mess” when Ted Lasso season 3 catches up with him, but the new ways in which the series forces the character to face his emotional shortcomings feel movingly organic and earned. Ted’s struggles to admit when those he loves let him down ring particularly true, especially given how much the emotional fallout of his and Nate’s bitter separation hangs over everything in Ted Lasso season 3. The same goes for Rebecca’s desire to “beat” Head’s Rupert, which already feels like the perfect catalyst for Waddingham’s proud football club owner to finally finish the emotional journey she began in Ted Lasso ’s debut season.
In other words, while Ted Lasso ’s latest season isn’t quite as efficiently written as its first, the show hasn’t lost touch with the things that made it so great in the first place. In fact, regardless of whether or not AFC Richmond actually comes out on top this time, all the necessary pieces seem to be in place for Ted Lasso season 3 to send the series out on a triumphant high.
New episodes of Ted Lasso season 3 premiere Wednesdays on Apple TV+.
Digital Trends was given early access to the season’s first four episodes.
Editors' Recommendations 3 Apple TV+ shows you should watch before September ends The funniest Ted Lasso episodes ever Where to watch the Ted Lasso season 3 finale: live stream the show for free Ted Lasso season 3, episode 11 release date, time, channel, and plot Ted Lasso season 3, episode 10 release date, time, channel, and plot Apple Apple TV Product Reviews Streaming Services Entertainment Are you ready to believe again? One of TV's best comedies is set to return for one last time. That's right, everyone's favorite emotionally damaged, yet aggressively optimistic soccer -- sorry -- football coach is back as Ted Lasso returns for its third season on Apple TV+.
The characters you love to love are all back: Ted, the sarcastic Roy Kent, the regal Rebecca Welton, the practical Keeley Jones, the ever-reliable Coach Beard, the lovable Sam Obisanya … you name it, they are here. Nathan's back too, now poised as Ted's main nemesis after season 2's stunning betrayal. Can Richmond finally win, well, anything? Or will Nathan and West Ham continue their winning streak? All the answers, plus more of Ted's buttery biscuits, await in season 3.
When does episode 9 of Ted Lasso season 3 release? Entertainment Are you ready to believe again? One of TV's best comedies is set to return for one last time. That's right, everyone's favorite emotionally damaged, yet aggressively optimistic soccer -- sorry -- football coach is back as Ted Lasso returns for its third season on Apple TV+.
The characters you love to love are all back: Ted, the sarcastic Roy Kent, the regal Rebecca Welton, the practical Keeley Jones, the ever-reliable Coach Beard, the lovable Sam Obisanya … you name it, they are here. Nathan's back too, now poised as Ted's main nemesis after season 2's stunning betrayal. Can Richmond finally win, well, anything? Or will Nathan and West Ham continue their winning streak? All the answers, plus more of Ted's buttery biscuits, await in season 3.
When does episode 7 of Ted Lasso season 3 release? Entertainment Are you ready to believe again? One of TV's best comedies is set to return for one last time. That's right, everyone's favorite emotionally damaged, yet aggressively optimistic soccer -- sorry -- football coach is back as Ted Lasso returns for its third season on Apple TV+.
The characters you love to love are all back: Ted, the sarcastic Roy Kent, the regal Rebecca Welton, the practical Keeley Jones, the ever-reliable Coach Beard, the lovable Sam Obisanya … you name it, they are back. Nathan's back too, now poised as Ted's main nemesis after season 2's stunning betrayal. Can Richmond finally win, well, anything? Or will Nathan and West Ham continue their winning streak? All the answers, plus more of Ted's buttery biscuits, await in season 3.
When does episode 6 of Ted Lasso season 3 release? Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
