Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix F1 Live Stream Stranger Things Season 5 Best New Movies Most Popular Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney+ UFC Live Stream Best Movies on Disney+ Home Entertainment Guides Oscar predictions 2023: who will take home the major awards? By Christine Persaud Close Oscar season is about to reach its end. The 2023 Oscars will live stream and air tonight on Sunday, March 12, 2023, live from the Dolby Theater in Ovation Holiday. Jimmy Kimmel will preside over the ceremonies serving as emcee. He previously hosted in 2017 and 2018.
Best Picture Best Lead Actor Best Lead Actress Best Supporting Actor Best Supporting Actress Best Director Best Original Song Best Animated Feature Film This year’s Oscars has the potential to make history with possible firsts and records that could be broken. Should Avatar: The Way of Water win Best Picture, for example, it would break the record for the highest-grossing film ever to win in that category, usurping Titanic.
 Cate Blanchett could join a group of elite actresses who have won three or more Academy Awards for acting if she wins for Tar while Michelle Yeoh could become the first Southeast Asian to win for Best Lead Actress and the first ever Malaysian to win an Oscar for Everything Everywhere All at Once.
Brendan Fraser could put Canada on the Oscars map as the first Canadian to win Best Actor for The Whale.
 Adrien Brody holds the record as the youngest Best Actor winner, taking home the award in 2003 for The Piano at the age of 29. At 27, Paul Mescal could break that record should he win for Aftersun while Judd Hirsch in The Fabelmans could break Christopher Plummer’s record for the oldest actor in the Best Supporting Actor category, at 87 years of age (Plummer was 82 when he won for Beginners ).
7 recently acclaimed films that were box office bombs Where to watch The 2023 ESPYS: live stream for free How to watch the 2023 Tony Awards live stream for free Some of the top nominated movies this year include Everything Everywhere All at Once with 11 nominations as well as The Banshees of Inisherin and All Quiet on the Western Front with nine each.
Who will those big winners be? We have put together some predictions in the most talked about categories.
Best Picture Image used with permission by copyright holder All Quiet on the Western Front Avatar: The Way of Water The Banshees of Inisherin Elvis Everything Everywhere All at Once The Fabelmans Tar Top Gun: Maverick Triangle of Sadness Women Talking Prediction: Everything Everywhere All at Once appears to be the favorite to win in numerous categories and will take home the big award for the night. The absurdist comedy-drama centers around a Chinese American woman (Michelle Yeoh) who is being audited by the IRS. In a weird twist of events, however, she connects with a parallel universe and other versions of herself within it. It seems there’s a powerful being attacking the multiverse and it’s up to her to destroy it.
The movie spans multiple genres and has been praised for everything from its visual effects to costume design, action sequences, and its approach to topical themes about neurodivergence, depression, and generational differences. It would be a surprise if Everything Everywhere All at Once doesn’t win.
Best Lead Actor A24 Austin Butler ( Elvis ) Colin Farrell ( The Banshees of Inisherin ) Brendan Fraser ( The Whale ) Paul Mescal ( Aftersun ) Bill Nighy ( Living ) Prediction: It might be wishful thinking, but there’s a great chance that Brendan Fraser will win for his role in The Whale.
 The Canadian actor has been on a high since the positive reception for his portrayal of a reclusive English teacher trying to reconnect with his teenage daughter.
While the psychological drama itself has not been without criticism, Fraser’s role has been largely praised. This would mark the first Academy Award win (and is the first nomination) for the long-time beloved actor. Should he win, Fraser would become the first Canadian to win in this category.
Best Lead Actress A24 Cate Blanchett (Tar) Ana de Armas ( Blonde ) Andrea Riseborough ( To Leslie ) Michelle Williams ( The Fabelmans ) Michelle Yeoh ( Everything Everywhere All at Once ) Prediction: It would be shocking if Michelle Yeoh did not win for Everything Everywhere All at Once.
 Not only did she play her main role of Evelyn Quan Wang beautifully in the absurdist comedy-drama, but she also played several variations of herself from the multiverse.
Reminiscent of Orphan Black and the calls for Tatiana Maslany to win an Emmy for her multiple clone roles in that series, Yeoh tackled the multiple nuanced performances with ease. A win for her would be historical, making Yeoh the first Southeast Asian woman to win this award and the first Malaysian to ever win an Oscar.
Best Supporting Actor Allyson Riggs, A24 Brendan Gleeson ( The Banshees of Inisherin ) Brian Tyree Henry ( Causeway ) Judd Hirsch ( The Fabelmans ) Barry Keoghan ( The Banshees of Inisherin ) Ke Huy Quan ( Everything Everywhere All at Once ) Prediction: The masses believe that Ke Huy Quan will win in this category, and they’re right. Quan is both a sentimental and deserving favorite, and he’s won almost every precursor award for his work.
Best Supporting Actress Image used with permission by copyright holder Angela Bassett ( Black Panther: Wakanda Forever ) Hong Chau ( The Whale ) Kerry Condon ( The Banshees of Inisherin ) Jamie Lee Curtis ( Everything Everywhere All at Once ) Stephanie Hsu ( Everything Everywhere All at Once ) Prediction: Jamie Lee Curtis is the expected winner here, but Hong Chau has been having a banner year with memorable roles in the movie The Menu , her guest role in an episode of the Peacock series Poker Face , and her role in The Whale , for which she received this nomination.
So her win could represent one of the bigger upsets of the night. In the movie about a morbidly obese and reclusive English teacher, she plays Liz, the man’s nurse and only friend. Chau also recently appeared in the series The Watchmen and Homecoming.
 With her star on the rise, whether she wins or not, the actor is clearly destined for big things going forward.
Best Director Allyson Riggs / A24 Martin McDonagh ( The Banshees of Inisherin ) Daniel Kwan, Daniel Scheinert ( Everything Everywhere All at Once ) Steven Spielberg ( The Fabelmans ) Todd Field ( Tar ) Ruben Östlund ( Triangle of Sadness ) Prediction: Once again, we’re going to give this one to Daniel Kwan and Daniel Scheinert for Everything Everywhere All at Once , which will likely be the big winner of the night. The writing and directing pair, also referred to as the Daniels, have put themselves on the map with this movie, and a win would solidify their positions in Hollywood.
The pair interestingly first emerged on the scene by directing music videos, including the twisted twerking DJ Snake & Lil Jon music video for the song “Turn Down for What.” Their only other major movie credit to date is for the 2016 film Swiss Army Man , which would make a win even more impressive for the duo.
Best Original Song “Applause” ( Tell It Like a Woman ) – Music and Lyric by Diane Warren “Hold My Hand” ( Top Gun: Maverick ) – Music and Lyric by Lady Gaga and BloodPop “Lift Me Up” ( Black Panther: Wakanda Forever ) – Music by Tems, Rihanna, Ryan Coogler, and Ludwig Göransson; Lyric by Tems and Ryan Coogler “Naatu Naatu” ( RRR ) – Music by M.M. Keeravaani; Lyric by Chandrabose “This Is a Life” ( Everything Everywhere All at Once ) – Music by Ryan Lott, David Byrne, and Mitski; Lyric by Ryan Lott and David Byrne Prediction: Diane Warren has been a fixture in the music and entertainment business for decades, and she may take home the statue for her song “ Applause ” from the movie Tell It Like a Woman , for which she wrote both the music and lyrics. Warren has been nominated numerous times since 1987 but has only ever received an Academy Honorary Award in 2022. This could finally be the long-time songwriter’s year. The American-Italian anthology movie features seven short stories, all directed by women and about women. The song’s lyrics are uplifting, encouraging, and a love letter to every woman who has ever felt like she wasn’t enough.
Best Animated Feature Film Image used with permission by copyright holder Guillermo del Toro’s Pinocchio Marcel the Shell With Shoes On Puss in Boots: The Last Wish The Sea Beast Turning Red Prediction: Guillermo del Toro is a mainstay at the Academy Awards, having received seven nominations to date and two wins in 2018 for Best Picture and Best Director for The Shape of Water.
 It’s predicted he will make it a hat trick and take home his third win for this animated movie. Del Toro’s adaptation of Pinocchio is delivered in stop motion animation style as a musical dark fantasy.
Loosely based on the Italian novel The Adventures of Pinocchio , written by Carlo Collodi in 1883, del Toro reimagines the life and story of the wooden puppet who comes to life. With del Toro expressing how the movie has been a long-time passion project for him and the character one he feels he has a deep, personal connection to, his dedication to the story and his craft shines through in the film.
Find out more about what time the 2023 Oscars are on and what channel the 2023 Oscars will air.
Editors' Recommendations Where to watch the 2023 MTV VMAs: live stream for free The Last of Us lands 24 Emmy Award nominations Where to watch the 2023 Home Run Derby: live stream for free Where to watch the 2023 Academy of Country Music Awards Where to watch the 2023 MTV Movie & TV Awards Oscars Entertainment Which movie is going to dominate the 74th Academy Awards -- or as they're more commonly known, The Oscars -- this year? Will the loud action-comedy Everything Everywhere All at Once clean up all 11 categories it was nominated for? Or will the quiet Banshees of Inisherin get all acting and writing awards this year? Fill out your Oscars 2023 prediction cards, crack open the booze, and get ready for some bad jokes: the 2023 Academy Awards are underway, and there's a free Oscars 2023 live stream, so you can tune in without paying a penny.
Watch the Oscars Live Stream on FuboTV FuboTV has ABC, and therefore will have the Oscars. FuboTV is one of our favorite live TV streaming services and always our go-to recommendation for streaming a single event. Why? Because there is a weeklong FuboTV free trial. If you sign up this weekend, you can watch the Oscars completely free and cancel before FuboTV charges you any money. We're betting you won't though, since it's a great deal. The basic FuboTV plan will get you 145 channels for $75.
Entertainment After a long awards season, the final stop will be at the 2023 Oscars (95th Academy Awards) on March 12. The ceremony will highlight some of the best films of 2022, including Top Gun: Maverick, Everything Everywhere All at Once, The Banshees of Inisherin, and Tár.
Before the ceremony, Hollywood's hottest stars and A-listers will walk the red carpet. Celebrities will be dressed in fashion's top brands from head to toe as they pose for photos and stop for interviews. However, this year marks a huge change for the Oscars. The carpet's color will be champagne, not red. This marks the first time since 1961 that the carpet isn't red.
Entertainment It's not false to say that Oscar winners are popular with the moviegoing public. Victors are highlighted in the ceremony, given 45 seconds (or more) to give a speech, and numerous press outlets are devoted to covering their win. Even after the Oscar show, coverage is devoted to them as winners, with numerous retrospectives, lists, and debates centering around their successful accomplishments.
But what about the people who don't win? What happens to them? With the 2023 Oscars live stream and ceremony airing tonight, it's time to cast a spotlight on those unlucky few who didn't take home the golden statuette. The phrase "Oscar loser" sounds harsh, but for these people on this list, it just highlights past injustices. All of the actors, actresses, directors, composers, and sound engineers should've won at least one Oscar by now, and this list spotlights all the great work they have done over the years.
8. Wes Anderson (7 nominations) Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
