Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix F1 Live Stream Stranger Things Season 5 Best New Movies Most Popular Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney+ UFC Live Stream Best Movies on Disney+ Home Entertainment Guides From Big Daddy to Murder Mystery, these are Adam Sandler’s best movies By Christine Persaud Close Adam Sandler rose to fame as a cast member on Saturday Night Live in the early ‘90s, but it was his post- SNL career that turned the actor into a film force to be reckoned with. To date, Sandler’s Hollywood feature films have grossed more than $2 billion collectively at the box office. In recent years, he made the transition to industry-leading streaming video service Netflix, where he inked a four-film deal in 2014, followed by another four-film deal in 2017.
10. Mr. Deeds (2002) 9. Click (2006) 8. Reign Over Me (2007) 7. 50 First Dates (2004) 6. Murder Mystery (2019) 5. Big Daddy (1999) 4. Punch Drunk Love (2002) 3. The Wedding Singer (1998) 2. Billy Madison (1995) 1. Happy Gilmore (1996) While most of his acting credits fall into the comedic genre, Sandler has taken a few dramatic turns that have received critical praise, proving that this funnyman has some serious acting chops. Sure, people love to clown on Sandler movies these days, but there’s no arguing the man has made some classics. Here are our ten favorite Adam Sandler movies to date.
10. Mr. Deeds (2002) Not one of Sandler’s best-reviewed films – it earned three Razzie Award nominations and was critically panned – Sandler’s remake of the rags-to-riches story offers a full helping of two of Sandler’s signature elements: A silly premise and lots of cheap laughs. When a multi-billionaire passes away, his last living grandnephew is called to New York to inherit his wealth and company, worth a cool $40 billion. The film co-stars Winona Ryder and another actor commonly seen in Sandler’s films, Steve Buscemi. While Sandler is great, the real shining star of the film is the “sneaky, sneaky” butler Emilio Lopez, played by John Turturro.
All the Fast & Furious movies, ranked from worst to best Director Jeremy Garelick on Adam Sandler, Jennifer Aniston, and making Murder Mystery 2 The worst Netflix movies ever, ranked 9. Click (2006) Dubbed a fantasy comedy, this film co-stars Kate Beckinsale and Christopher Walken, with Sandler playing an overworked family man who discovers that he can fast-forward through the boring parts of his life using a magical universal remote. He eventually realizes that the moments he considered dull are actually valuable time missed with his family. While it received an Academy Award nomination for Best Makeup — making it the only Sandler film to date to receive an Oscar nod — the movie itself received mixed reviews. It was criticized for taking elements from both Back to the Future and It’s a Wonderful Life , but it’s precisely this imitation that makes Click such a sweet film.
8. Reign Over Me (2007) In this buddy comedy-drama, Sandler is joined by another star-studded cast that includes Don Cheadle, Jada Pinkett Smith, Liv Tyler, and Donald Sutherland. As one of his few films outside of the comedy genre, it uses the September 11 attacks as a backdrop to the story, which follows a man named Charlie (Sandler) who lost both his wife and daughter in the terrible tragedy. Having become withdrawn and a shell of his former self, Charlie’s life changes when he encounters his former college roommate, Alan (Cheadle). It’s a story of rekindled friendship, love, and loss, with Sandler’s performance earning praise from critics.
7. 50 First Dates (2004) When Sandler unites with Drew Barrymore in a romantic comedy, it always seems to be box-office gold. That was the case with this 2004 film, which follows the story of a womanizing marine veterinarian who falls for an art teacher suffering from a fictional ailment called Goldfield’s Syndrome. The ailment repeatedly erases her short-term memory, leading Sandler’s character to attempt to win her over, again and again, each day. There’s no denying the beautiful chemistry between Sandler and Barrymore that solidified the pair as a romantic comedy dream team.
6. Murder Mystery (2019) Sandler’s latest project for Netflix, this film co-stars Jennifer Aniston. Netflix reports that 30.9 million households watched it in just the first three days after release, making it the biggest opening weekend so far for any film on the streaming site. A comedy-mystery, Sandler and Aniston are a married couple who, while vacationing on a billionaire’s yacht, get caught up in a murder investigation. Less campy than most of the actor’s films but still full of big laughs, it pushed all the right buttons for Sandler’s fans and managed to have some mainstream appeal, too.
5. Big Daddy (1999) A classic from Sandler’s earlier career, this hilarious comedy stars Sandler as Sonny, an immature 30-something bachelor who finds himself tasked with caring for his roommate Kevin’s illegitimate son when he’s dropped off on their doorstep after Kevin has left for China. The boy, Julian, is played by Cole Sprouse ( Riverdale ) and is the epitome of cuteness. The pairing with Sandler as the clueless Sonny makes for plenty of hijinks, and despite receiving lackluster reviews, the film remains Sandler’s highest-grossing live-action movie to date behind only the animated features Hotel Transylvania 2 and Hotel Transylvania 3: Summer Vacation.
4. Punch Drunk Love (2002) Sandler surprised viewers when he took a dramatic turn in this romantic comedy-drama, playing an entrepreneur with severe social anxiety who falls in love with a woman, but is faced with defending himself against thieves trying to steal his identity and extort him. One of his few films to receive universal praise as being “odd, touching, and unique,” Sandler was also singled out for his performance , with one critic citing his use of his “comic persona to explore the life of a lonely guy who finds love.” Ironically, however, this is one of the few Sandler films that did not do well at the box office.
3. The Wedding Singer (1998) Sandler’s first film with Drew Barrymore, the story follows a struggling wedding singer who falls in love with a waitress who is already engaged to be married to a wealthy, cheating, pompous fiancé. This film did retro-1980s justice before it was cool, and also produced one of the best original love songs from a romantic comedy, Grow Old With You , which was sung touchingly by Sandler in a memorable scene set on an airplane. The film made $123.3 million worldwide , and was such a sweet story that in 2006, it was made into a Broadway stage musical.
2. Billy Madison (1995) Sandler’s first film wasn’t for the critics, but it was an instant cult-classic, as well as debuting atop the box office, proving that Sandler was someone worth watching in the film industry. Sandler plays the title character, a 27-year-old wealthy heir who still acts like a child, with no job or responsibilities. When his enabling father decides to hand his business down to his company’s comically villainous vice president instead of his son, Billy bucks up and commits to going back to grade school all over again when he finds out his father paid for his grades, all in an effort of changing his dad’s mind. It’s easy to imagine how this scenario would translate to non-stop hilarity in signature Sandler fashion, and it did, despite the film’s ridiculous premise and Sandler’s reveling in his own, truly bizarre comedic style.
1. Happy Gilmore (1996) “Go to your home! Are you too good for your home!” There’s nothing better than Sandler screaming at a tiny golf ball, or Bob Barker punching him square in the face as the two get into an all-out brawl on live TV. The sports comedy that coined the name “Shooter McGavin” as a universal way to describe an arrogant jerk, Happy Gilmore was indisputably Sandler at his best. Portraying a failed hockey player who discovers that he has a hidden talent for golf, Sandler’s character enters a professional golf tournament and quickly becomes the story’s unconventional underdog. A commercial success, the film earned $41.2 million on just a $12 million budget.
Editors' Recommendations All The Purge movies, ranked from worst to best All the villains in the Fast and Furious movies, ranked from worst to best All the Scream horror movies, ranked from worst to best 5 best movies and TV shows like Only Murders in the Building Adam Sandler discovers an NBA prospect in Hustle’s trailer Audio / Video Features Entertainment One of Netflix’s biggest movies of the year has finally arrived in the form of The Adam Project. Starring Ryan Reynolds as a time-traveling man who is forced to work with his younger self and his father to try and save the future, the Netflix original film is a loving homage to the sci-fi blockbusters of the 1980s and should offer enough action, humor, and heart to satisfy any genre lovers who decide to check it out.
Odds are, The Adam Project will also put its viewers in the mood to seek out other sci-fi flicks like it. Fortunately, we’ve put together a list of five great time travel movies that offer many of the same sci-fi pleasures as The Adam Project, all of which just so happen to be available to stream right now.
Flight of the Navigator (1986) Entertainment Throughout her prolific career, Agatha Christie wrote 75 novels, 28 short story collections, 16 plays, seven radio broadcasts works, and three poems. All of that work was bound to be adapted into film and television, and in the last 90 years, nearly 50 theatrical movies and 100 television programs have been made based on her works. With all of that content to sift through, it can be hard to tell the good from the bad.
With another version of Death on the Nile set for release on February 11, there's no better time to take a look at some of the best movies (and one mini-series) that have been adapted from Christie's considerable canon. While some of these films may differ in style and scope, they all share a common trait of making the solving of a murder the most appealing thing to do with one's free time.
And Then There Were None (1945) Entertainment It's been seven years since director Michael Mann last helmed a feature film. But that's going to change soon. Deadline is reporting that Mann has lined up his cast for Ferrari, a new biopic about the life of racing legend Enzo Ferrari. Mann previously executive produced the film Ford v Ferrari, but Ferrari is his passion project and he's been pursuing it for over two decades.
Adam Driver will portray Ferrari in the film set in 1957, when the former race car driver faces financial ruin alongside his wife, Laura (Penélope Cruz). Their company is on the verge of bankruptcy when Ferrari bets his entire future on the Mille Miglia race across Italy. Shailene Woodley will also co-star in the film as Ferrari's mistress, Lina Lardi.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
