Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Netflix Original Movies Best Comedies on Netflix Best Netflix Original Series Best Anime on Netflix Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Fantasy Movies on Netflix Home Entertainment Guides The best anime on Netflix right now By Guillermo Kurten , Blair Marnell and Nick Perry Close Netflix has grown into one of the best mainstream platforms to stream anime in recent years. Over the years, the streamer has served its animated catalog impressively well. Naturally, that dense library includes anime as well, and thanks to a respectable dose of original series and established hits, Netflix hosts some of the greatest anime to watch, spanning moves and TV shows of every genre a prospective fan could want.
Crunchyroll and Funimation are the primary streamers for the genre. Even so, considering the dominating presence Netflix has in the streaming market internationally, it’s a worthy supplement. But even with how relatively mainstream the genre has become westward, it can still feel daunting to know where to start. Thankfully, this guide is consistently updated every month to help you pick from Netflix’s library of excellent anime available now.
If you want more options, check out our other guides to the best anime on Hulu and the best anime available on Amazon Prime Video.
Save on everything from laptops and tablets, to coffee makers and air purifiers, and a whole host of Apple tech like iPad, Apple Watch and even the latest M3 MacBooks, as well as smart home essentials like the Amazon Echo and smart bulbs.
PLUTO tv-14 2023 Onimusha tv-ma 2023 Resident Evil: Death Island 2023 GOOD NIGHT WORLD tv-ma 2023 PLUTO (2023) new tv-14 1 Season Animation, Sci-Fi & Fantasy, Mystery, Crime Shinshu Fuji watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Naoki Urasawa is credited with writing and illustrating some of greatest seinen manga in the industry, and Netflix obtained the license for the adaptation of Pluto.
 Set in the same continuity as Osamu Tezuka’s landmark Astro Boy series, Pluto tells a mystery involving the murder of the heroic robot Montblanc, who fought in the 39th Asian War.
Things become far bleaker when war veteran and Europol detective Gesicht investigates the grisly killing of the war hero, as the plot unravels a deep-rooted conspiracy against the robots who took part in the war. Though inherently less grounded as a premise compared to the revered Monster , Pluto is a gripping blend of the crime drama and science fiction genres. Urasawa is known for his cerebral stories, and the animation team at Studio M2 brilliantly conveys that in their anime adaptation.
Read less Onimusha (2023) new tv-ma 1 Season Animation, Action & Adventure, Sci-Fi & Fantasy Akio Otsuka, Hochu Otsuka, Daiki Yamashita watch on Netflix watch on Netflix In addition to anime and animation in general, Netflix is continuing its relationship with video game publishers to adapt their properties. Capcom’s Onimusha is the latest in these endeavors, with animation studio Sublimation taking a 3D CGI approach to this world.
Netflix’s Onimusha takes the legendary ronin Miyamoto Musashi, wielding the Oni Gauntlet, and is sent on an undercover mission to thwart a looming demonic threat. It’s an engaging and vibrant spin on Edo-period Japan in fantasy, and while its plot is fairly straightforward, Onimusha does enough to deliver an action-packed story. Likewise, the anime is an impressive showcase of how far CG animation has come.
Read less Resident Evil: Death Island (2023) new 91m Animation, Action, Horror Matthew Mercer, Nicole Tompkins, Kevin Dorman Eiichirō Hasumi watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Capcom’s Resident Evil franchise is the face of the survival-horror genre in gaming, and it’s no stranger to anime adaptations. The latest entry to the anime side of the property is Resident Evil: Death Island , animated by studio TMS Entertainment. This anime movie brings together some of the video games’ most iconic characters — Leon Kennedy, Chris Redfield, Jill Valentine, and Claire Redfield — on a rescue mission to Alcatraz Island.
The operation leads to dealing with a new strain of the T-Virus and a shadowy threat.
Resident Evil: Death Island doesn’t break new ground for the franchise’s anime adaptations, but it’s an unapologetically fun, gory, and bombastic action-horror movie. Its use of CG animation and grotesque creature designs are also well done and keep the spirit of the games.
Read less GOOD NIGHT WORLD (2023) new tv-ma 1 Season Animation, Sci-Fi & Fantasy Daisuke Hirose, Nobunaga Shimazaki, Akio Otsuka watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Another Netflix original anime, studio NAZ’s Good Night World is an adaptation of Uru Okabe’s web manga of the same name. The story revolves around the members of a broken, emotionally dysfunctional family who all find a semblance of fulfillment within a virtual reality video game called Planet.
However, what these characters don’t realize is that they’ve managed to form a functional family unit with each other. An interesting premise, Good Night World does well to gradually piece together the more secretive aspects of these characters’ backstories, with the plot taking dramatic turns as it incorporates elements of their real lives and their video game personas.
Read less Captain Laserhawk: A Blood Dragon Remix (2023) new tv-ma 1 Season Animation, Action & Adventure Adi Shankar, Balak, Nathaniel Curtis Adi Shankar watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Another one of Netflix’s “Western-style anime” originals, Captain Laserhawk: A Blood Dragon Remix delves into video game publisher Ubisoft’s backlog. Loosely inspired by the Far Cry 3 spin-off game Blood Dragon , but vibrant sci-fi adventure sees the fugitive and branded enemy of the state Dolph Laserhawk lead a team of rebels in a dystopian technocracy.
Animated by French studio Bobby Pills, Captain Laserhawk: A Blood Dragon Remix is a high-octane and colorful celebration of some of publisher Ubisoft’s most memorable games. The series does well to balance over-the-top action with a sincere, heartfelt plot at its core.
Read less Castlevania: Nocturne (2023) new tv-ma 2 Seasons Animation, Sci-Fi & Fantasy, Drama Edward Bluemel, Pixie Davies, Thuso Mbedu Clive Bradley watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Though it leans more into anime-inspired TV rather than the conventional definition of the genre, Netflix and Powerhouse Animation Studios’ Castlevania: Nocturne is nonetheless a highlight of the streamer’s animated catalog. This sequel series takes place 300 years after the events of the original series, as Richter Belmont comes into his own alongside his surrogate family of Maria Renard and Tera.
Nocturne is set against the backdrop of the French Revolution, where the vampiric aristocracy is working to usher in a fabled vampire messiah to plunge the world into an eternal night. Art direction and animation continue to be strong points in this TV side of the video game franchise. The series also lays an exciting groundwork for what’s to come.
Read less Kengan Ashura (2019) new tv-ma 2 Seasons Animation, Action & Adventure watch on Netflix watch on Netflix One of the most bombastically entertaining martial arts anime shows on Netflix, Kengan Ashura returns for a second season. The story continues the titular protagonist’s rise in the underground combat rings of the corporate Japanese world, as wealthy businessmen hire some of the most elite fighters to settle disputes in brutal fights.
Tokita Ouma is eager for the sporting element of it all, and he’s determined to make a name for himself by taking on the strongest figures in this grueling world. Larx Entertainment’s adaptation of Yabako Sandrovich and Daromeon’s manga has been well-received for its straightforward, yet effective story and over-the-top action sequences.
Read less GAMERA -Rebirth- (2023) new tv-14 1 Season Animation, Sci-Fi & Fantasy, Action & Adventure Hisako Kanemoto, Subaru Kimura, Yoshitsugu Matsuoka watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Godzilla may be the face of the kaiju subgenre, but Gamera has developed a respectable cult-classic reverence in this space. Animated by studio Engi, the Netflix-original series Gamera Rebirth also functions as a reboot of the franchise following the 2006 live-action movie Gamera the Brave.
Set in Tokyo during the summer of 1989, it follows four children who witness the rise of the titular turtle monster as he defends humanity against a string of hostile monsters.
Gamera Rebirth focuses the action on the monster battling against five distinct monsters across its six-episode season. For fans of the genre, this series should be an engaging action-heavy romp.
Read less The Disastrous Life of Saiki K. (2016) 2 Seasons Animation, Comedy, Sci-Fi & Fantasy Hiroshi Kamiya, Ai Kayano, Maaya Uchida watch on Netflix watch on Netflix One of the best shounen comedy series, animation studios J.C.Staff and Egg Firm’s anime adaptation of Shūichi Asō’s The Disastrous Life of Saiki K.
translates wonderfully to the screen. High schooler Kusuo Saiki stumbles through his life as the psychic abilities he once vowed to keep secret end up attracting unwanted attention.
It’s a fun and lighthearted way of making a supernatural catalyst the premise for a high school comedy, with this plot device proving to be an entertaining way of fleshing out Saiki’s colorful supporting cast. The animation and art direction are quite basic compared to higher-budget anime productions, but they succeed in being another charming element of this gag-filled series.
Read less One Piece Film: GOLD (2016) new 120m Action, Animation, Adventure, Comedy Kazuya Nakai, Mayumi Tanaka, Akemi Okamura Hiroaki Miyamoto watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Read less One Piece: Heart of Gold (2016) new 104m Animation, Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy, Action Kazuki Yao, Mayumi Tanaka, Akemi Okamura Tatsuya Nagamine watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Read less BNA (2020) tv-14 1 Season Animation, Action & Adventure, Sci-Fi & Fantasy Sumire Morohoshi, Yoshimasa Hosoya, Maria Naganawa watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Read less The Seven Deadly Sins: Grudge of Edinburgh Part 2 (2023) new 55m Action, Adventure, Fantasy, Animation Ayumu Murase, Koki Uchiyama, Yuki Kaji Bob Shirohata watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Read less Baki Hanma (2021) new tv-ma 2 Seasons Animation, Action & Adventure watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Read less The Way of the Househusband (2021) tv-ma 2 Seasons Animation, Comedy Kenjiro Tsuda, Shizuka Itoh, Kazuyuki Okitsu watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Read less Lookism (2022) tv-ma 1 Season Comedy, Drama, Animation Shim Kyu-hyuck, Han Shin, Ryu Seung-gone watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Read less Zom 100: Bucket List of the Dead (2023) new tv-ma 1 Season Animation, Action & Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi & Fantasy Shuichiro Umeda, Tomori Kusunoki, Makoto Furukawa watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Read less My Happy Marriage (2023) new tv-14 1 Season Animation, Drama, Sci-Fi & Fantasy Reina Ueda, Kaito Ishikawa, Ayane Sakura watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Read less Record of Ragnarok (2021) new tv-ma 2 Seasons Animation, Action & Adventure, Sci-Fi & Fantasy Miyuki Sawashiro, Tomoyo Kurosawa, Wataru Takagi watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Written by Shinya Umemura and Takumi Fukui and illustrated by Ajichika, the Record of Ragnarok manga is an unapologetically bombastic action series. It wears its wild character designs and equally over-the-top action on its sleeve. The series follows the gods of various mythologies who convene every 1,000 years to decide the fate of mankind in an epic-scale martial arts tournament.
Meanwhile, season 2, part 2 will continue this onslaught of spectacles, including Buddha — on behalf of humanity — doing battle against Zerofoku; one of the Japanese Seven Lucky Gods.
Read less Darwin's Game (2020) tv-14 1 Season Animation, Mystery, Action & Adventure, Sci-Fi & Fantasy Yusuke Kobayashi, Reina Ueda, Nichika Omori watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Read less Naruto Shippuden the Movie (2007) 94m Animation, Action, Fantasy Junko Takeuchi, Chie Nakamura, Yōichi Masukawa Hajime Kamegaki watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Read less Demon Slayer: Kimetsu no Yaiba (2019) new tv-ma 4 Seasons Animation, Action & Adventure, Sci-Fi & Fantasy Natsuki Hanae, Akari Kito, Nobuhiko Okamoto Koyoharu Gotouge watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Demon Slayer is one of the biggest hits in the modern anime and manga scene. Especially so for the former, as Ufotable brilliantly adapted Koyoharu Gotouge’s manga of the same name to film and TV.
Netflix now finally has the rights to stream the second season of the series after adding the first season and the Mugen Train arc.
Demon Slayer season 2 covers the Entertainment District arc, which sees Tanjiro, Zenitsu, and Inosuke go to the titular Japanese district in Yoshiwara to investigate a prowling demon wreaking havoc there.
Read less Mobile Suit Gundam: Iron-Blooded Orphans (2015) tv-ma 1 Season Animation, War & Politics, Action & Adventure, Sci-Fi & Fantasy Yoshimasa Hosoya, Kengo Kawanishi, Yuka Terasaki watch on Netflix watch on Netflix The Mobile Suit Gundam franchise has long been an anime icon, as well as the face of the mecha subgenre. Animated by studio Sunrise, the 2015 Mobile Suit Gundam: Iron-Blooded Orphans series became one of the best for the franchise on TV. The series follows Mikazuki Augus and Orga Itsuka, who go from being slaves of a private security company to leaders of their own mercenary group.
Things expand exponentially in scale once they take on a job to escort martian noblewoman Kudelia Aina Bernstein to potentially negotiate the independence of her home.
Iron-Blooded Orphans doesn’t take its stakes lightly for anyone involved, is filled with thrilling robot action, and features storylines packed with political drama.
Read less One Piece Film: Z (2012) 108m Animation, Fantasy, Action, Adventure Mayumi Tanaka, Kazuya Nakai, Akemi Okamura Tatsuya Nagamine watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Eiichiro Oda’s One Piece is one of the most lucrative manga and anime properties in the world. Fans all over the world are invested in the Straw Hat Pirate crew’s colorful exploits, and its success spawned several anime movies. The non-canonical One Piece Film: Z ranks among the best of the franchise’s theatrical efforts, pitting Luffy and company against a powerful new foe.
As the group navigates the waters of the New World searching for Gol D. Roger’s treasure, they cross paths with the renegade former Marine Admiral Z. He’s being suspected of stealing powerful weapons capable of eliminating the pirate world as they know it — and taking countless innocent lives as collateral along with it.
Read less Kuroko's Basketball (2012) tv-14 3 Seasons Animation, Comedy Kensho Ono, Yuki Ono, Junichi Suwabe watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Read less Naruto (2002) tv-pg 4 Seasons Animation, Action & Adventure, Sci-Fi & Fantasy Junko Takeuchi, Noriaki Sugiyama, Chie Nakamura watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Another anime and manga phenomenon from Shonen Jump Magazine’s era of the “Big Three,” Naruto has effectively become a modern classic for newer generations of anime fans.
Masashi Kishimoto’s ninja series follows the titular Naruto Uzumaki going from village outcast to hometown hero, as he and the rest of Team 7 tackle an increasingly dangerous set of foes. It’s part of his grand dream to become the Hokage of the Hidden Leaf Village, but Naruto has also become known for having a wide cast of fan-favorite characters.
Read less InuYasha (2000) tv-14 2 Seasons Animation, Sci-Fi & Fantasy, Action & Adventure, Comedy Kappei Yamaguchi, Satsuki Yukino watch on Netflix watch on Netflix A manga classic of the ’90s and ’00s, Rumiko Takahashi’s Inuyasha is another beloved shonen series that shouldn’t be forgotten among its contemporaries. The original anime adaptation was done by the well-known Mobile Suit Gundam studio Sunrise and was generally well-received for being faithful to the source material.
In a radical and unexpected turn of events, 15-year-old Kagome Higurashi is pulled by a demon into her family’s well and into the feudal past, in an age where demons were prominent. Eventually, she meets and teams up with the half-demon boy Inuyasha to find the pieces of the powerful Shikon Jewel before more nefarious hands reach them.
Read less Blue Period (2021) tv-14 1 Season Animation, Drama Hiromu Mineta, Yumiri Hanamori, Daiki Yamashita watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Taking a break from the high-octane action and bombast of other typical anime offerings, Blue Period is a refreshing and down-to-earth story. Fitting nicely within the slice-of-life anime subgenre, animation studio Seven Arcs’ Blue Period adapts Tsubasa Yamaguchi’s manga of the same name. Centering around the story of Yatora Yaguchi, the high-school delinquent with top-notch grades finds himself feeling empty by his life of keeping up with his schoolwork and hanging around a group of unambitious friends.
He finds his true passion in the arts — painting, to be specific. From there, Yatora embarks on a journey to enroll in the competitive Tokyo University of the Arts.
Blue Period has been acclaimed for its investing cast of characters and coming-of-age-themed storytelling.
Read less Great Pretender (2020) tv-ma 1 Season Animation, Drama, Comedy, Action & Adventure Chiaki Kobayashi, Junichi Suwabe, Mie Sonozaki watch on Netflix watch on Netflix A Netflix original story developed by famed animators Wit Studio ( Vinland Saga season 1, Attack on Titan seasons 1-3), Great Pretender is a vibrant heist comedy. Starting with the petty ventures of a common thief named Makoto Edamura in Japan, the series expands onto a grander scale when he’s unwittingly recruited by a master con man and his colorful cast of colleagues.
Each story arc is cleverly separated into cases, with each detailing equal parts thrilling new capers and genuinely emotional character development of the main cast. Complemented by its stunning art direction, Great Pretender is easily one of Netflix’s greatest original anime series.
Read less Super Crooks (2021) tv-ma 1 Season Animation, Crime, Sci-Fi & Fantasy, Action & Adventure Kenjiro Tsuda, Maaya Sakamoto, Yasushi Kimura watch on Netflix watch on Netflix A Netflix anime original, veteran animation studio Bones’ Super Crooks is an adaptation of writer Mark Millar and artist Leinil Francis Yu’s Marvel Comics series of the same name. The series follows the exploits of a small-time crook named Johnny Bolt as he strings together one big heist to help the world’s most beloved “supercrook” out of a gambling jam.
Bolt forms a team of supervillains to pull off a massive heist, traveling to Spain and attempting to rob one of the most infamous supervillains of all time. It’s a fun twist on conventional superhero storytelling and utilizes anime format to excellent effect.
Read less Dorohedoro (2020) tv-ma 1 Season Animation, Comedy, Action & Adventure, Sci-Fi & Fantasy Soungdok, Reina Kondo, Wataru Takagi watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Read less Devilman Crybaby (2018) tv-ma 1 Season Animation, Action & Adventure, Sci-Fi & Fantasy Koki Uchiyama, Ayumu Murase, Megumi Han watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Read less Case Closed: The Culprit Hanzawa (2022) tv-14 1 Season Animation, Comedy Shouta Aoi, Inori Minase, Minami Takayama watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Read less Junji Ito Maniac: Japanese Tales of the Macabre (2023) tv-ma 1 Season Animation, Mystery watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Read less Monster (2004) new tv-14 1 Season Drama, Crime, Mystery, War & Politics, Animation Mami Koyama, Mamiko Noto, Junko Takeuchi watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Read less Vinland Saga (2019) new tv-ma 2 Seasons Animation, Action & Adventure, Drama, War & Politics Yuto Uemura, Shunsuke Takeuchi, Kensho Ono watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Read less The Seven Deadly Sins: Grudge of Edinburgh Part 1 (2022) Animation, Fantasy, Adventure, Action Noriyuki Abe watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Read less And now, with that series concluded, The Seven Deadly Sins: Grudge of Edinburgh Part 1 will serve as a cinematic prequel to the sequel series Four Knights of the Apocalypse, which ushers in a new generation of heroes. This time, the story follows Tristan, the son of Meliodas and Elizabeth, a young boy will travel to the titular Edinburgh Castle.[/dt_media] JoJo's Bizarre Adventure (2012) tv-ma 5 Seasons Animation, Action & Adventure, Sci-Fi & Fantasy Fairouz Ai, Daisuke Ono, Mutsumi Tamura watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Read less Pokémon Journeys (2019) 1 Season Animation, Comedy, Kids Ikue Otani, Rica Matsumoto, Sarah Natochenny watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Read less Tiger & Bunny (2011) tv-14 2 Seasons Action & Adventure, Animation, Comedy, Sci-Fi & Fantasy Hiroaki Hirata, Masakazu Morita, Go Inoue watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Read less Cyberpunk: Edgerunners (2022) tv-14 1 Season Animation, Action & Adventure, Sci-Fi & Fantasy KENN, Aoi Yuki, Hiroki Touchi Rafał Jaki watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Read less Violet Evergarden: The Movie (2020) 140m Animation, Fantasy, Romance, Drama Yui Ishikawa, Daisuke Namikawa, Takehito Koyasu Taichi Ishidate watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Read less One Piece (1999) tv-14 21 Seasons Action & Adventure, Comedy, Animation Mayumi Tanaka, Kazuya Nakai, Akemi Okamura watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Read less Death Note (2006) tv-14 1 Season Animation, Mystery, Sci-Fi & Fantasy Mamoru Miyano, Noriko Hidaka, Nozomu Sasaki watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Read less One-Punch Man (2015) tv-pg 3 Seasons Action & Adventure, Animation, Comedy Kazuhiro Yamaji, Yuichi Nakamura, Kenjiro Tsuda ONE watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Read less Hunter x Hunter (2011) tv-14 3 Seasons Action & Adventure, Animation, Drama Megumi Han, Mariya Ise, Miyuki Sawashiro watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Read less Cowboy Bebop (1998) tv-14 1 Season Action & Adventure, Animation, Crime, Drama, Sci-Fi & Fantasy Koichi Yamadera, Unsho Ishizuka, Megumi Hayashibara Keiko Nobumoto watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Read less Best anime on Hulu Best fantasy movies on Hulu Best fantasy movies on Netflix Best fantasy movies on Amazon Prime Mobile Suit Gundam Hathaway (2021) 96m Animation, Action, Drama, Science Fiction Kensho Ono, Reina Ueda, Junichi Suwabe Shuko Murase watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Read less The Seven Deadly Sins (2014) tv-14 4 Seasons Action & Adventure, Animation, Sci-Fi & Fantasy Yuki Kaji, Sora Amamiya, Tatsuhisa Suzuki A-1 Pictures watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Read less Castlevania (2017) tv-ma 4 Seasons Sci-Fi & Fantasy, Animation Richard Armitage, James Callis, Alejandra Reynoso Warren Ellis watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Read less BEASTARS (2019) tv-ma 2 Seasons Animation, Drama Chikahiro Kobayashi Orange watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Read less Neon Genesis Evangelion (1995) tv-14 1 Season Sci-Fi & Fantasy, Animation, Drama Megumi Ogata, Kotono Mitsuishi, Megumi Hayashibara Gainax watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Read less Related topics: Netflix | Hulu | Amazon Prime | More streaming services Editors' Recommendations The best new shows to stream on Netflix, Hulu, Max (HBO), and more The 50 best shows on Netflix in November 2023 The best movies and shows on Shudder right now (November 2023) The best Black movies on Netflix right now The 10 most popular movies on Netflix right now Best Products Netflix Streaming Guides Streaming Services Movie images and data from: Entertainment The best feel-good movies on Netflix right now include plenty of romantic comedies to watch while snuggling up with your partner, pet, or favorite blanket.
There's also a concert tour documentary courtesy of Taylor Swift, which is particularly topical due to the singing sensation's dominance of the pop culture zeitgeist. We've sorted through the best feel-good movies on Netflix and feel good about the list below.
Entertainment It's not hard to find a great comedy movie on Netflix. Unlike some other genres like sci-fi and fantasy, Netflix keeps its lineup of comedies well-stocked with some recent box-office hits, like Jennifer Lawrence's No Hard Feelings, as well as classic titles on loan from other studios and a lot of original films. This month's new additions include the first theatrical adaptation of The Addams Family, The Big Lebowski, and Scott Pilgrim vs. the World. It's pretty hard to go wrong with those flicks.
Comedies come and go, which is why it's important to stay glued to what's new on Netflix. If you're looking for laughs, these are the best comedies on Netflix right now.
Entertainment You're going to see a lot of Christmas movies on Hulu through the end of the year. 'Tis the season for the Huludays, after all. While we'll go over your Christmas options at a later date, this month's selections of the best movies on Hulu feature a new original film, Quiz Lady, as well as A Haunting in Venice, which recently finished its theatrical run. The other prominent new additions are Jumanji: Welcome to the Jungle and the comedy biopic Driven.
Need help keeping up with everything new on Hulu? Every month, we go over the greatest films that Hulu has to offer while keeping track of what's coming and going. That's why our update of the best movies on Hulu is always current. We're here to help you plan your next movie night.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
