Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Netflix Original Movies Best Comedies on Netflix Best Netflix Original Series Best Anime on Netflix Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Fantasy Movies on Netflix Home Entertainment Guides Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? The best fantasy movies on Netflix right now By Blair Marnell , Nick Perry and Michael Bizzaco Close If it wasn’t for Netflix ‘s original films, the world’s top streamer would barely have any fantasy movies at all. Fantasy is by far the most underserved genre on Netflix, with sci-fi movies not far behind. There just hasn’t been much of interest in this category for a long time, and Netflix doesn’t seem to be doing much about. And while this month’s new fantasy movies — Hellboy , The Mortal Instruments: City of Bones , and Goosebumps — are all very enjoyable, fans deserve a better fantasy selection.
Fantasy lovers may want to keep their eyes on what’s n ew on Netflix , because there may be some new original films in this category by the end of the year. In the meantime, these are the best fantasy movies on Netflix right now.
We’ ve also rounded up the best fantasy movies on Amazon Prime and the best fantasy movies on Hulu if Netflix doesn’t have what you’re looking for.
Save on everything from laptops and tablets, to coffee makers and air purifiers, and a whole host of Apple tech like iPad, Apple Watch and even the latest M3 MacBooks, as well as smart home essentials like the Amazon Echo and smart bulbs.
Hellboy pg-13 2004 The Mortal Instruments: City of Bones pg-13 2013 Goosebumps pg 2015 The School for Good and Evil pg-13 2022 Hellboy (2004) new pg-13 122m Fantasy, Action watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Guillermo del Toro was so passionate about Mike Mignola’s Hellboy comic that he directed two different movies featuring the world’s greatest paranormal investigator. The first film is by far the best. Ron Perlman is impeccably well-cast as Hellboy, a demon from Hell who has been raised as a human by Professor Trevor Bruttenholm (John Hurt), the leader of the Bureau for Paranormal Research and Defense.
In the present, Hellboy is friends with his fellow agent, Abe Sapien (Doug Jones), and in love with Liz Sherman (Selma Blair), a pyrokinetic who fears her own powers. Hellboy feels threatened when a new BPRD agent, John Myers (Rupert Evans), starts getting close to her. However, the return of Grigori Rasputin (Karel Roden) is a much bigger problem because he intends to use Hellboy’s feelings for Liz to bring about the end of the world.
Read less The Mortal Instruments: City of Bones (2013) new pg-13 130m Fantasy, Action, Mystery Lily Collins, Jamie Campbell Bower, Robert Sheehan Harald Zwart watch on Netflix watch on Netflix The Mortal Instruments: City of Bones adapts Cassandra Clare’s novels and casts Lily Collins as Clary, a teenager who has no idea that she is connected to a supernatural underworld that includes half-angel hybrids, vampires, werewolves, and demons. After receiving a mysterious warning from her mother, Jocelyn ( Dredd ‘ s Lena Headey), Clary finds herself targeted by evil beings who want an object of great power.
A Shadowhunter named Jace (Jamie Campbell Bower) appoints himself as Clary’s protector, and he helps her understand her otherworldly legacy. This also sets off a love triangle between Clary, Jace, and Clary’s longtime friend, Simon (Robert Sheehan), who carries an unrequited torch for her.
Read less Goosebumps (2015) new pg 103m Adventure, Horror, Comedy Jack Black, Dylan Minnette, Odeya Rush Rob Letterman watch on Netflix watch on Netflix The first Goosebumps movie takes a unique approach to the adaptation of R.L. Stine’s novels by making Stine one of the central characters, as played by Jack Black. The film follows high school student Zach Cooper (Dylan Minnette), who shares an attraction to Stine’s daughter, Hannah (Odeya Rush).
Eventually, Zach and his friend, Champ (Ryan Lee), realize who Stine really is and accidentally unleash his Goosebumps characters into the real world. That includes Slappy the Dummy (voiced by Black), the most evil creation of Stine, who wants his revenge.
Read less The Scorpion King (2002) pg-13 92m Action, Adventure, Fantasy Dwayne Johnson, Steven Brand, Michael Clarke Duncan Chuck Russell watch on Netflix watch on Netflix It’s impossible not to see the parallels between Arnold Schwarzenegger’s starring turn in Conan the Barbarian and Dwayne Johnson’s first-ever leading role in a film, The Scorpion King.
 This movie was basically created to capitalize on Johnson’s popularity as a wrestler and his natural charisma that not even the poor CGI of The Mummy Returns could hide.
In this prequel story, the Scorpion King isn’t a ruler yet. He’s simply Mathayus of Akkad, a ferocious fighter who has his sights set on overthrowing a tyrant named Memnon (Steven Brand). Mathayus is also openly attracted to Memnon’s sorceress, Cassandra (Kelly Hu), but her ability to predict upcoming events reveals that Mathayus may not have much of a future of his own.
Read less Monster Run (2020) 104m Action, Adventure, Fantasy Shawn Yue, Jessie Li, Kara Hui Henri Wong watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Monsters are all too real in Monster Run , and that’s something that a young woman named Ji Mo (Jessie Li) has tried to deny for most of her life. After learning that she can see monsters, Ji Mo is only able to escape being imprisoned in an asylum by pretending that she can not. Instead, she simply tries to live an ordinary life until she runs into a monster hunter, Meng (Shawn Yue).
Once Ji Mo and Meng come together, she can no longer deny that monsters are real. Ji Mo also learns that she has a destiny to fulfill, if she can live long enough to make it happen.
Read less Troll (2022) pg-13 104m Fantasy, Action, Adventure, Thriller Ine Marie Wilmann, Kim S. Falck-Jørgensen, Mads Sjøgård Pettersen Roar Uthaug watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Troll is a Norwegian fantasy that depicts an unusual emergence of a mythical creature in the modern world. As a young girl, Professor Nora Tidemann (Ine Marie Wilmann) was told by her father, Tobias Tidemann (Gard B. Eidsvold), that trolls may be real. Unfortunately, Tobias’ academic career was ended over these beliefs. But in the present, Tobias is vindicated when a gigantic troll is discovered in Norway before it goes on a rampage.
Since nothing the Norwegian army can throw at the troll manages to slow it down, it falls to Nora, Tobias, and their colleague, Andreas Isaksen (Kim Falck) to either find a way to communicate with the troll or to permanently end the threat that it represents.
Read less Roald Dahl's Matilda the Musical (2022) 117m Family, Comedy, Fantasy Alisha Weir, Emma Thompson, Lashana Lynch Matthew Warchus watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Read less Wendell & Wild (2022) 105m Animation, Comedy, Fantasy, Horror, Adventure Lyric Ross, Keegan-Michael Key, Jordan Peele Henry Selick watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Read less Guillermo del Toro's Pinocchio (2022) 117m Animation, Fantasy, Drama Gregory Mann, Ewan McGregor, David Bradley Guillermo del Toro, Mark Gustafson watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Read less The School for Good and Evil (2022) new pg-13 146m Fantasy, Action, Drama Sofia Wylie, Sophia Anne Caruso, Kerry Washington Paul Feig watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Read less Slumberland (2022) new pg 117m Family, Fantasy, Adventure, Drama Jason Momoa, Marlow Barkley, Chris O'Dowd Francis Lawrence watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Read less Best movies on Netflix Best movies on Amazon Prime Best movies on Disney+ Best movies on HBO Best movies on Hulu Best shows on Netflix Nightbooks (2021) tv-pg Fantasy, Family, Horror Winslow Fegley, Lidya Jewett, Krysten Ritter watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Don’t fancy yourself a storyteller? Well, as the saying goes, necessity can very well be the mother of invention as the young Alex (Winslow Fegley) learns in Netflix’s new dark fantasy film Nightbooks.
 Based on the 2018 novel by J.A. White, Nightbooks stars Krysten Ritter as a terrifying witch who imprisons Alex. In order to escape certain death at her hands, Alex must tell her a scary story every night to entertain her. Knowing his death is inevitable otherwise, Alex befriends the witch’s servant, Yazmin (Lidya Jewett), and together they try to outwit the evil sorceress to escape her mystical home. Scheduled to start streaming in the middle of September, Nightbooks promises to be both scary and family-friendly while giving Ritter a wonderful chance to play against type./dt_media] Errementari: The Blacksmith and the Devil (2018) tv-ma Drama, Fantasy, Horror Kandido Uranga, Uma Bracaglia, Eneko Sagardoy watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Read less Super Me (2019) tv-14 Adventure, Drama, Fantasy Darren Wang, Song Jia, Cao Bingkun watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Read less Mowgli: Legend of the Jungle (2018) pg-13 105m Adventure, Drama Rohan Chand, Christian Bale, Cate Blanchett, Benedict Cumberbatch, Naomie Harris Andy Serkis watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Read less A Monster Calls (2016) pg-13 108m Drama, Fantasy Lewis MacDougall, Sigourney Weaver, Felicity Jones J. A. Bayona watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Read less Monty Python and the Holy Grail (1975) pg 91m Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy Graham Chapman, John Cleese, Eric Idle, Terry Gilliam, Terry Jones, Michael Palin Terry Gilliam, Terry Jones watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Read less I Lost My Body (2019) pg 81m Animation, Drama, Fantasy Victoire Du Bois, Hakim Faris, Victoire Du Bois, Patrick d'Assumçao Jérémy Clapin watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Read less Bright (2017) tv-ma Fantasy, Action, Thriller Will Smith, Joel Edgerton, Lucy Fry watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Read less Fullmetal Alchemist (2017) pg-13 135m Action, Fantasy, Science Fiction Ryosuke Yamada, Tsubasa Honda, Dean Fujioka Fumihiko Sori watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Read less Okja (2017) tv-ma Adventure, Drama, Science Fiction, Action Tilda Swinton, Paul Dano, Seo-hyun Ahn, Jake Gyllenhaal, Devon Bostick, Lily Collins, Steven Yuen watch on Netflix watch on Netflix From Oscar-winning writer-director Bong Joon Ho, Okja is a brilliant mesh of animal rights versus big business, both operating in the body of a beautifully crazy film. The story follows Mija (Seo-hyun Ahn), a South Korean farm girl and owner of a genetically modified super-pig named Okja. Developed by the multinational Mirando Corporation, several prototypes of these genetically modified pigs were sent out into the world. After 10 years of growing to maturity, the company announces that Okja has been awarded the honor of “best super-pig.” It’s all a ruse, though, and the company wants to move Okja from Mija’s farm to New York for (unbeknownst to the world) experimentation and eventual slaughter. Mirando’s CEO Lucy Mirando (Tilda Swinton) arranges for Mija to travel to New York to be with Okja. However, the plot thickens when the ALF (Animal Liberation Front) kidnaps Okja to expose Mirando, sending the film down a path of much greater moral weight.
Read less A Whisker Away (2020) pg 104m Animation, Drama, Romance, Fantasy, Science Fiction Mirai Shida, Natsuki Hanae, Koichi Yamadera Junichi Sato, Tomotaka Shibayama watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Read less Related topics: Netflix | Hulu | Amazon Prime | More streaming services Editors' Recommendations The best new shows to stream on Netflix, Hulu, Max (HBO), and more The 50 best shows on Netflix in November 2023 The best movies and shows on Shudder right now (November 2023) The best Black movies on Netflix right now The 10 most popular movies on Netflix right now Best Products Netflix Streaming Guides Streaming Services Movie images and data from: Entertainment The best feel-good movies on Netflix right now include plenty of romantic comedies to watch while snuggling up with your partner, pet, or favorite blanket.
There's also a concert tour documentary courtesy of Taylor Swift, which is particularly topical due to the singing sensation's dominance of the pop culture zeitgeist. We've sorted through the best feel-good movies on Netflix and feel good about the list below.
Entertainment It's not hard to find a great comedy movie on Netflix. Unlike some other genres like sci-fi and fantasy, Netflix keeps its lineup of comedies well-stocked with some recent box-office hits, like Jennifer Lawrence's No Hard Feelings, as well as classic titles on loan from other studios and a lot of original films. This month's new additions include the first theatrical adaptation of The Addams Family, The Big Lebowski, and Scott Pilgrim vs. the World. It's pretty hard to go wrong with those flicks.
Comedies come and go, which is why it's important to stay glued to what's new on Netflix. If you're looking for laughs, these are the best comedies on Netflix right now.
Entertainment You're going to see a lot of Christmas movies on Hulu through the end of the year. 'Tis the season for the Huludays, after all. While we'll go over your Christmas options at a later date, this month's selections of the best movies on Hulu feature a new original film, Quiz Lady, as well as A Haunting in Venice, which recently finished its theatrical run. The other prominent new additions are Jumanji: Welcome to the Jungle and the comedy biopic Driven.
Need help keeping up with everything new on Hulu? Every month, we go over the greatest films that Hulu has to offer while keeping track of what's coming and going. That's why our update of the best movies on Hulu is always current. We're here to help you plan your next movie night.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
