Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Netflix Original Movies Best Comedies on Netflix Best Netflix Original Series Best Anime on Netflix Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Fantasy Movies on Netflix Home Entertainment Guides The best Netflix original series right now By Blair Marnell , Nick Perry and Michael Bizzaco Close It’s too soon to say when six months of Hollywood strikes will catch up to Netflix , because there has yet to be any shortage of Netflix original series. Each and every week this year, there’s been a new show or miniseries that gives fans of all genres something to enjoy from comedy to horror. That’s the big reason why Netflix remains the most popular streamer in the world.
In fact, there are so many new shows on Netflix that even some of the great original series get lost in the shuffle. But we can help you catch all of the best and noteworthy television shows that Netflix has to offer. Our monthly roundup of the best Netflix original series has something for everyone. And you shouldn’t have any problems finding your next binge from these shows.
If you want to know the latest additions to the Netflix library, be sure to check out our list of what’s new on Netflix this month , the best movies on Netflix , and the best shows on Netflix.
The Fall of the House of Usher tv-ma 2023 Lupin tv-ma 2021 Everything Now tv-ma 2023 Neon tv-ma 2023 The Fall of the House of Usher (2023) new tv-ma 1 Season Crime, Drama, Mystery Carla Gugino, Bruce Greenwood, Mary McDonnell Mike Flanagan watch on Netflix watch on Netflix As a Halloween treat, Mike Flanagan’s final horror series for Netflix, The Fall of the House of Usher , updates the original story by Edgar Allan Poe as well as a few other tales by the famous author. Flanagan also made the very timely choice to re-envision the Usher family as the incredibly wealthy owners of a corrupt company, Fortunato Pharmaceuticals.
Siblings Roderick (Bruce Greenwood) and Madeline Usher (Mary McDonnell) have literally made their business a killing. Now, someone is making a killing by eliminating all of the Usher children, one by one. Suddenly, there may not be a legacy for the Ushers, or even a family left to receive it.
Read less The best movies on Amazon Prime Video (November 2023) The 50 best movies on Netflix right now (November 2023) The best Hulu original series right now Lupin (2021) new tv-ma 2 Seasons Crime, Drama, Mystery Omar Sy, Ludivine Sagnier, Clotilde Hesme George Kay, Marie Roussin, Florent Meyer, François Uzan, Tigran Rosine watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Everyone’s favorite gentleman thief is back in Lupin , and Assane Diop (Omar Sy) has almost everything he could want … except his family. In order to remain free, Assane had to abandon his wife, Claire Laurent (Ludivine Sagnier), and their son, Raoul (Etan Simon).
In the newest batch of episodes, Assane hatches his most ambitious plan to date to reunite with his family by faking his own death, which should get his name off of the world’s most wanted lists. But walking away from his life of crime won’t be easy for Assane, especially since he has a new enemy gunning for him.
Read less Everything Now (2023) new tv-ma 1 Season Comedy, Drama Sophie Wilde, Lauryn Ajufo, Harry Cadby Ripley Parker watch on Netflix watch on Netflix There are some tragic elements in Everything Now , because the main character, Mia Polanco ( Talk to Me ‘s Sophie Wilde), has spent months in treatment for eating disorders that almost cost Mia her life. But Mia doesn’t want to be defined by that, and she’s especially annoyed when the subject comes up even from well-meaning members of her own family.
Instead, Mia wants to focus on experiencing everything that she would have done if she hadn’t just lost months of her time in high school. In that way, Mia is turning a near tragedy into a life-affirming affair, and she’s bringing her friends with her to share the experience.
Read less Neon (2023) new tv-ma 1 Season Comedy Tyler Dean Flores, Emma Ferreira, Jordan Mendoza Max Searle, Shea Serrano watch on Netflix watch on Netflix K-pop may be more prevalent, but reggaeton music is on the rise in modern pop culture, as exemplified by Netflix’s comedy series, Neon.
 Tyler Dean Flores stars as Santi (Tyler Dean Flores), an aspiring reggaeton artist who has just gone viral for the first time with one of his music videos.
Santi and his friends, Ness (Emma Ferreira) and Felix (Jordan Mendoza), realize that they have to make their next move now or they will let this opportunity slip through their fingers. It’s not enough to have the talent to break through in the world of reggaeton, but the drive of Santi and his friends may take them to new heights while simultaneously pulling them apart.
Read less One Piece (2023) tv-14 1 Season Action & Adventure, Sci-Fi & Fantasy Iñaki Godoy, Emily Rudd, Mackenyu Steven Maeda, Matt Owens watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Live-action anime adaptations are always tricky, and Netflix’s Cowboy Bebop is a prime example of that. However, One Piece appears to have won over fans of the anime with its largely faithful tone and its energetic adventures on the high seas.
Two decades before the start of this series, the famous pirate, Gol D. Roger, made his last stand. Now, Gold Roger’s legendary lost treasure, the One Piece, is sought by many.
Monkey D. Luffy (Iñaki Godoy) wants to find the One Piece so he can become the new Pirate King. Monkey is also a bit ridiculous regardless of his superhuman stretching powers. But Monkey is so earnest that he draws together a crew of Straw Hat Pirates who will follow him to the ends of the Earth and beyond.
Read less Sex Education (2019) tv-ma 4 Seasons Comedy, Drama Asa Butterfield, Gillian Anderson, Ncuti Gatwa Laurie Nunn watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Otis Milburn (Asa Butterfield) had a lot to learn over the course of Sex Education ’s four-season run. Otis’ mother, Jean Milburn (Gillian Anderson), is a successful sex therapist, and her expertise occasionally leads to weirdness with Otis at home. But through Jean, Otis is so well-versed on the topic that he opens his own sex therapy business at school with his partner, Maeve (Emma Mackey).
Season 4 picks up with Otis feeling lost at his new school, which already has a student sex therapist. He can’t even count on Maeve to have his back, because she’s already left to go to college in the U.S. But the story of Otis and Maeve’s potential romance isn’t over yet.
Read less Wrestlers (2023) tv-ma 1 Season Documentary Allen Sarven, Doug Basham Greg Whiteley watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Professional wrestling still has a dedicated following that doesn’t care that the business has been exposed as scripted for decades. Fans love it anyway, and the industry has produced performers like Dwayne “The Rock” Johnson and John Cena who have gone on to Hollywood stardom after headlining WWE events for years.
The performers in Netflix’s Wrestlers may never reach the heights of Johnson or Cena, but their dream is to make it to major league promotions like WWE and AEW. This docuseries follows the wrestlers at Ohio Valley Wrestling, a small regional promotion that once helped Cena learn his craft. The men and women of OVW have their own personal stories, but they share a common goal. Yet in this business, not everyone will get the chance to live out their dreams.
Read less Virgin River (2019) tv-14 5 Seasons Drama Alexandra Breckenridge, Martin Henderson, Colin Lawrence Sue Tenney watch on Netflix watch on Netflix After memorable stints on American Horror Story , The Walking Dead , and This Is Us , Alexandra Breckenridge finally has a starring vehicle of her own in Virgin River.
 This show is so successful that Netflix has already renewed it for a sixth season, and that just doesn’t happen very often with the streamer’s live-action series.
Breckenridge plays Melinda “Mel” Monroe, a nurse practitioner who wants to reinvent herself as a midwife in Virgin River, a small town in Northern California. Mel immediately clashes with her new employer, Vernon “Doc” Mullins (Tim Matheson). Mel also finds herself romantically drawn to Jack Sheridan (Martin Henderson), a local bar owner. Mel’s relationships and friendships in the town drive this series, which recently premiered the first part of its fifth season.
Read less Mask Girl (2023) tv-ma 1 Season Drama, Comedy, Mystery Ko Hyun-jung, Nana, Lee Han-byeol Kim Yong-hoon, Kim Young-hoon watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Get ready to go to some bizarre places in the latest Korean series to hit Netflix, Mask Girl.
 This is the story of Kim Mo-mi (Lee Han-byeol), a homely and lonely woman who reinvents herself as an internet personality called Mask Girl. After plastic surgery, Mo-Mi (Nana) is stunningly beautiful. She’s also a murderer, but what drove her to kill? In the third time period, an older Mo-Mi (Go Hyun-jung) is in prison for her many crimes, but she is openly nostalgic about the murderous life she led behind. In all three incarnations, Mask Girl is full of surprises, some of which are quite lethal.
Read less The Chosen One (2023) tv-ma 1 Season Drama, Sci-Fi & Fantasy Dianna Agron, Carlos Bardem, Patricio Serna Meza Leopoldo Gout, Everardo Gout, Jorge Dorantes watch on Netflix watch on Netflix The key difference between The Chosen One and the comic that it is based on, American Jesus , is that the story is set in Mexico instead of America. Other than that, it’s pretty close to the story that Mark Millar and artist Peter Gross came up with two decades ago.
Bobby Luhnow stars as Jodie, an otherwise normal 12-year-old boy who survives a near-fatal accident only to discover that he has all of the powers attributed to Jesus Christ in Biblical scripture. He might really be the Messiah reborn, and the powers that be can’t have that. Some very deadly people target Jodie for death just to make sure that he can never fulfill his destiny on Earth.
Read less Painkiller (2023) tv-ma 1 Season Drama Uzo Aduba, Matthew Broderick, Taylor Kitsch watch on Netflix watch on Netflix How did the opioid crisis become such a devastating ongoing problem for our country? Netflix’s Painkiller puts a lot of the blame at the feet of Richard Sackler (Matthew Broderick) and his company, Purdue. However, Sackler and Purdue aren’t the only ones at fault, and there’s plenty of blame to pass around in this dramatization.
Many of the addicts depicted in the show are victims of their own choices regardless of anything Purdue did to push OxyContin on the nation. But perhaps the most affecting moments come at the beginning of the episodes when real people talk about who they lost to addiction during the show’s disclaimer sequences.
Read less Who Is Erin Carter? (2023) tv-ma 1 Season Action & Adventure, Crime Evin Ahmad, Sean Teale, Douglas Henshall Jack Lothian watch on Netflix watch on Netflix If you’re wondering who Erin Carter (Evin Ahmad) is, she’s Netflix’s newest action heroine. In Who is Erin Carter? , Erin has successfully walked away from a deadly chapter in her life and started over in Spain with her husband, Jordi (Sean Teale), and her daughter, Harper (Indica Watson). Erin might have been able to continue living out in the open if she hadn’t exposed her fighting skills while thwarting a supermarket robbery.
One of the robbers recognizes Erin and the local police become suspicious of her as well. That sets off a chain reaction that threatens to destroy everything Erin holds dear.
Read less The Lincoln Lawyer (2022) tv-ma 1 Season Drama, Crime Manuel Garcia-Rulfo, Neve Campbell, Becki Newton David E. Kelley watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Read less The Witcher (2019) tv-ma 3 Seasons Drama, Action & Adventure, Sci-Fi & Fantasy Henry Cavill, Anya Chalotra, Freya Allan Lauren Schmidt Hissrich watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Read less Quarterback (2023) tv-ma 1 Season Documentary Patrick Mahomes, Kirk Cousins, Marcus Mariota watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Playing in the NFL is a lot like simulated warfare, and the best teams have the greatest quarterbacks to lead them into battle. The Netflix original series Quarterback got unfiltered access to Kansas City Chiefs quarterback Patrick Mahomes during one of the most successful seasons in his career. Mahomes also produced the series, and he gave viewers an unexpected look at his life beyond the football field.
Kirk Cousins of the Minnesota Vikings and Marcus Mariota of the Atlanta Falcons are also featured in the show, but in terms of success, they are both far behind Mahomes and eager to carve out their own place in the NFL.
Read less Manifest (2018) tv-14 4 Seasons Drama, Mystery, Sci-Fi & Fantasy Melissa Roxburgh, Josh Dallas, Ty Doran Jeff Rake watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Ten years ago, Michaela “Mick” Stone (Melissa Roxburgh), her brother, Ben Stone (Josh Dallas), and the rest of the passengers of Flight 828 disappeared under unexplained circumstances. Flight 828 returned in 2018 as the first season of Manifest slowly peeled back the mysteries of what happened to the men, women, and children on board.
Viewers would have been left without answers if Netflix hadn’t rescued Manifest from a premature cancellation. Now, the fourth and final season of Manifest has landed, and it has given fans the ending that they deserved.
Read less Black Mirror (2011) tv-ma 6 Seasons Sci-fi, Psychological Thriller, Dystopia Annie Murphy, Salma Hayek, Aaron Paul, Josh Hartnett, Kate Mara Charlie Brooker watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Netflix has premiered the sixth season of Black Mirror , and series creator Charlie Brooker is up to his old tricks again. Just when you think Black Mirror can’t go more over-the-top, the new season has five all-new standalone episodes that point the finger at the perils of modern technology. And one of this season’s targets is none other than Netflix itself! The rest of the season explores two astronauts in an alternate history, a woman who is compelled to murder to prevent an apocalypse, and an unexpectedly supernatural encounter. As always, Brooker has lined up some very recognizable actors and actresses to play out these horror stories to their bitter end. And we love it.
Read less Catching Killers (2021) tv-ma 3 Seasons Documentary, Crime Simon Dekker watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Read less Our Planet (2019) tv-pg 2 Seasons Documentary David Attenborough watch on Netflix watch on Netflix It’s not an exaggeration to call Our Planet one of the very best documentaries on Netflix. The team behind this series offer viewers some absolutely jaw-dropping visuals of places on Earth that most people would never have seen without the window that this show provides them. We’re happy to say that Our Planet II is just as visually stunning as the first season was four years ago.
Season 2 once again explores the way that climate change has affected Earth and the creatures who live there. To do otherwise would have been dishonest, and it’s disheartening at times to watch the animals struggle to find ways to survive. But if you love nature, this is a show you shouldn’t miss.
Read less Queen Charlotte: A Bridgerton Story (2023) tv-ma 1 Season Drama India Ria Amarteifio, Adjoa Andoh, Michelle Fairley Shonda Rhimes watch on Netflix watch on Netflix God save the queen.
Bridgerton fans have made sure that the first spinoff series, Queen Charlotte: A Bridgerton Story , is already a chart-topping hit. This is a prequel that follows Charlotte (India Amarteifio) decades before the events of the primary show. It’s also an origin story for Bridgerton itself as Charlotte’s marriage to King George III (Corey Mylchreest) has an amazing effect on the world around them. Unfortunately for Charlotte, a happy ending and true love will not come as easily.
This show doesn’t ignore the events of the primary Bridgerton series, as the older Queen Charlotte (Golda Rosheuvel) finds herself facing some serious questions about who will inherit the crown after she is gone.
Read less FUBAR (2023) tv-ma 1 Season Action & Adventure, Comedy Arnold Schwarzenegger, Monica Barbaro, Milan Carter Nick Santora watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Arnold Schwarzenegger is making the leap to television in his first-ever series, FUBAR.
 And to be honest, FUBAR does play like a collection of Schwarzenegger’s greatest hits, especially if you like True Lies.
For decades, Luke Brunner (Schwarzenegger) has been the top agent in the CIA, and he’s ready to finally leave it all behind. The problem is that the CIA has a new top agent: Luke’s daughter, Emma (Monica Barbaro). She and her father have been lying to each other for years about what they really do for a living. Now that the truth is out, that’s a lot of tension to put into a relationship right before they have to team up for the sake of the free world.
Read less XO, Kitty (2023) tv-14 1 Season Comedy, Drama Anna Cathcart, Choi Min-yeong, Gia Kim Jenny Han watch on Netflix watch on Netflix The To All the Boys trilogy may be over, but the universe continues in the spinoff series, XO, Kitty.
 Anna Cathcart’s Kitty Song Covey has been promoted from supporting character status to a leading role as she begins her own quest for love. In the third movie, Kitty set up a long-distance relationship with Dae (Choi Min-young), a boy who lives in Korea. But when that’s not enough for Kitty, she decides to move to Korea to give herself more time with Dae.
However, Kitty may have bitten off more than she can chew, as the culture shock of living in Korea pales in comparison to the personal drama ahead. There are even some long-buried revelations about Kitty’s mother that may affect Kitty in the present.
Read less Sweet Tooth (2021) tv-14 2 Seasons Drama, Sci-Fi & Fantasy Christian Convery, Nonso Anozie, Adeel Akhtar Jim Mickle watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Sweet Tooth is based on the comic book series by Jeff Lemire, and it’s also the nickname of Gus (Christian Convery), a young boy who is half-human and half-deer. Hybrid children like Gus are on the rise in this post-apocalyptic landscape which has left unaltered humans barely clinging to power. That leads some fanatics called the Last Men to blame the hybrids before attempting to hunt them down.
Yet for Gus, nothing is more important to him than reuniting with the mother he never knew. That’s why Gus is leaving the safety of his home to find his mom in the company of his new companion, Tommy Jepperd (Nonso Anozie). But in this world, Gus is going to have to grow up fast if he wants to survive.
Read less The Diplomat (2023) tv-ma 1 Season Drama Keri Russell, Rufus Sewell, Ali Ahn Debora Cahn watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Read less The Night Agent (2023) tv-ma 1 Season Drama, Mystery Gabriel Basso, Luciane Buchanan, Hong Chau Shawn Ryan watch on Netflix watch on Netflix It’s a good time for action in the streaming universe, and The Night Agent is at the top of our list. Gabriel Basso stars as Peter Sutherland, an FBI agent who stumbles upon a suspect attempting to detonate a bomb on a train. However, Peter’s heroism only leads him to become a suspect. As a result, he is demoted to a night shift which places him on standby for emergency situations when undercover operatives are in danger.
BEEF (2023) tv-ma 1 Season Comedy, Drama Steven Yeun, Ali Wong, Justin H. Min Lee Sung-jin watch on Netflix watch on Netflix A grudge like this can only fester and grow, and by the end, revenge is the only thing that matters to either one of them. Fortunately, it makes for some terrific stories, and this is likely to be Netflix’s breakout hit for the month.
Read less Florida Man (2023) tv-ma 1 Season Mystery, Crime, Comedy, Drama Edgar Ramírez, Anthony LaPaglia, Abbey Lee Donald Todd watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Netflix is diving back into the realm of dark comedy crime shows with Florida Man.
 The series follows Mike Valentine (Ramírez), a former cop who finds himself working for a mob boss, Moss Yankov (Emory Cohen). After spending years away from Florida, Moss forces Mike to return and find Moss’ missing girlfriend, Delly (Abbey Lee).
What Moss doesn’t know is that Mike was having an affair with Delly before she vanished. And once Mike is back in Florida, the darker secrets of his own family start coming out. To complicate things even further, Mike’s ex-wife, Iris (Lex Scott Davis), is still a cop and she follows Mike to discover what he has been up to.
Read less Unstable (2023) tv-14 1 Season Comedy, Drama Rob Lowe, John Owen Lowe, Fred Armisen Rob Lowe, Victor Fresco, John Owen Lowe watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Have you ever had a boss that you just hated working for? You know the type: a total narcissist who is all about himself, with little regard for everyone else around him. Jackson Dragon (John Owen Lowe) can relate, because said boss is his father, Ellis Dragon (Rob Lowe). And since the death of Ellis’ wife, the elder Dragon is spiraling out of control.
But Unstable isn’t just about Ellis’ pathos. It’s also a workplace comedy that finds Jackson struggling to find his place in his father’s world, even as he attempts to keep his dad from falling into even greater despair.
Read less Shadow and Bone (2021) tv-14 2 Seasons Drama, Sci-Fi & Fantasy Jessie Mei Li, Archie Renaux, Freddy Carter Eric Heisserer watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Need some fantasy in your drab life? Shadow and Bone is back for its second season on Netflix. And if you’re unfamiliar with the world of the show, it does get you up to speed fairly quickly. The short version is that it takes place in an alternate world, much like our own, which has been divided by literal darkness. And in this world, magic is real…and often lethal.
Alina Starkov (Jessie Mei Li) is a Sun Summoner who has the ability to control light and perhaps to free her world from the darkness. Now, she just needs to survive her confrontation with her Shadow Summoner counterpart, General Aleksander Kirigan (Ben Barnes).
Read less You (2018) tv-ma 4 Seasons Mystery, Crime, Drama Penn Badgley, Lukas Gage, Charlotte Ritchie Greg Berlanti, Sera Gamble watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Read less That '90s Show (2023) 1 Season Comedy Debra Jo Rupp, Kurtwood Smith, Callie Haverda Bonnie Turner, Terry Turner, Gregg Mettler, Lindsay Turner watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Read less The Witcher: Blood Origin (2022) tv-ma 1 Season Action & Adventure, Sci-Fi & Fantasy Laurence O'Fuarain, Sophia Brown, Michelle Yeoh Lauren Schmidt Hissrich, Declan de Barra watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Read less Alice in Borderland (2020) tv-ma 2 Seasons Drama, Mystery, Action & Adventure, Sci-Fi & Fantasy Yoshiki Watanabe, Yasuko Kuramitsu watch on Netflix watch on Netflix A slacker gamer named Arisu (Kento Yamazaki) suddenly finds himself and his two best friends transported to an eerily empty Tokyo in this series based on the manga of the same name by Haro Aso. They soon discover that they have to compete in deadly games to survive, and must do so while trying to solve the mystery around their strange predicament.
Alice in Borderland is like Battle Royale mixed with The Hunger Games It was renewed for a second season almost immediately after the series premiered. The next chapter of the mind-boggling saga premiered late last year.
Read less Dead to Me (2019) tv-ma 3 Seasons Drama, Mystery, Crime Christina Applegate, Linda Cardellini, James Marsden Liz Feldman watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Read less The Watcher (2022) tv-ma 1 Season Drama, Mystery Bobby Cannavale, Naomi Watts, Jennifer Coolidge Ryan Murphy, Ian Brennan watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Based on a true story, Ryan Murphy’s The Watcher is propped up by its A-list cast that includes Naomi Watts and Bobby Cannavale as a married couple who move with their two kids to what they believe is their dream home. They overextend themselves to afford it but expect to have an ideal lifestyle there until they realize the neighborhood might not be what it seems.
Not only are the neighbors intrusive, rude, and downright creepy, but the couple continuously receives strange letters from someone who calls himself The Watcher. He claims to have been tasked with watching the home for decades, and now, he’s watching them. It’s spooky, edge-of-your-seat tension, and while reviews are mixed, The Watcher is a quick seven-episode binge if you’re looking for something exciting, tense, and frightful.
Read less The Sandman (2022) tv-ma 1 Season Sci-Fi & Fantasy, Drama Tom Sturridge, Boyd Holbrook, Vivienne Acheampong David S. Goyer, Neil Gaiman, Allan Heinberg watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Tom Sturridge stars as Dream/Morpheus, the personification of dreams and nightmares. After escaping from the clutches of an occult trap after 106 years, Dream goes on a mission to restore order to his realm, The Dreaming. Based on the Neil Gaiman-authored DC Comics comic book of the same name, The Sandman has been decades in the making. The payoff has been positive, with critics lauding everything from the production design and costumes to the visual effects and lead performances.
Keep an eye (and ear) out for supporting and recurring characters like Game of Thrones’ Gwendoline Christie as Lucifer Morningstar, ruler of Hell, and Mark Hamill as the voice of Mervyn Pumpkinhead, a janitor with a head shaped like a jack-o-lantern.
The Sandman is equally weird and wonderful.
Read less The Cuphead Show! (2022) tv-y7 2 Seasons Animation, Comedy, Family Frank Todaro, Tru Valentino Dave Wasson watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Read less Cobra Kai (2018) tv-14 5 Seasons Action & Adventure, Drama William Zabka, Ralph Macchio, Courtney Henggeler Hayden Schlossberg, Josh Heald, John Hurwitz watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Originally made for YouTube Red, this series sequel to the Karate Kid franchise has found a new home on Netflix. Picking up 30 years after the 1984 All Valley Karate Tournament, Cobra Kai finds down-and-out Johnny Lawrence (William Zabka) desperate to find redemption from his epic loss. To do so, and after encountering a young man who is being bullied, he reopens the infamous Cobra Kai karate dojo. This reignites his rivalry with the Karate Kid himself, Daniel LaRusso (Ralph Macchio), who decides to open a karate dojo of his own in response.
But it’s not easy to go back to karate, maintain balance and find peace after the passing of his mentor, Mr. Miyagi. Meanwhile, a new generation of kids struggles to find themselves through learning very different approaches to the philosophy behind karate through their dueling senseis. With five seasons and multiple Emmy nominations under its belt, it’s likely Cobra Kai will return for a season 6.
Read less Inventing Anna (2022) tv-ma 1 Season Drama Julia Garner, Anna Chlumsky, Arian Moayed Shonda Rhimes watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Read less Heartstopper (2022) tv-14 1 Season Drama Kit Connor, Joe Locke, William Gao Alice Oseman watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Read less Stranger Things (2016) tv-14 4 Seasons Sci-Fi & Fantasy, Mystery, Drama Winona Ryder, David Harbour, Finn Wolfhard Matt Duffer, Ross Duffer watch on Netflix watch on Netflix The throwback sci-fi series Stranger Things is set the world ablaze in the summer of 2016, igniting a bonfire of nostalgia while simultaneously telling a gripping story that gets more exciting with each episode. Now, it’s back for season 4. When 12-year-old Will Byers goes missing in the small town of Hawkins, Indiana, his mother, Joyce (Winona Ryder), thinks she’s losing her mind, believing that Will has been taken by supernatural forces. Meanwhile, Will’s friends work to find and rescue him, with the help of a mysterious young girl named Eleven (Millie Bobby Brown), who appears seemingly out of nowhere.
The mystery gets deeper and darker as the show goes on, while more and more members of the Hawkins community get drawn into the creepy tale. Few shows have been as willing to let children drive the story, and Stranger Things is better for it. The show is a clear homage to Spielberg’s coming-of-age films and ’80s horror, and superb performances across the board make this a must-watch.
Read less Peaky Blinders (2013) tv-ma 6 Seasons Crime, Drama Cillian Murphy, Paul Anderson, Sam Claflin Steven Knight watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Read less Ozark (2017) tv-ma 4 Seasons Crime, Drama Jason Bateman, Laura Linney, Sofia Hublitz Mark Williams, Bill Dubuque watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Jason Bateman has had as interesting a career as anyone in the limelight. He burst onto the Hollywood scene in the early 1980s as a young heartthrob, starring in stuff like Teen Wolf Too and The Hogan Family before experiencing a major career renaissance in the late aughts with shows like the brilliant comedy Arrested Development.
Ozark marks a different look for Bateman than many have seen, as he plays a financial planner-turned-money launderer who relocates his family to the remote Ozark mountains in Missouri to avoid attention from the law.
Unsurprisingly, the law finds him anyway, and Marty (Bateman) must scramble to stay afloat while paying off debts to a Mexican cartel. Laura Linney is awesome as Marty’s wife, who gets caught up in the scheme, and Julia Garner is particularly good as the odd local girl Ruth Langmore. Though Ozark will naturally draw comparisons to Breaking Bad , its scope isn’t nearly as grand, but Bateman seems to improve with each passing episode.
Read less Bridgerton (2020) tv-ma 2 Seasons Drama, Romance Phoebe Dynevor, Regé-Jean Page, Adjoa Andoh Chris Van Dusen watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Read less Squid Game (2021) tv-ma 1 Season Action & Adventure, Mystery, Drama Lee Jung-jae, Park Hae-soo, Jung Ho-yeon Hwang Dong-hyuk watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Read less New on Netflix this month Best movies on Netflix Best shows on Netflix The Queen’s Gambit (2020) tv-ma 1 Season Drama Anya Taylor-Joy, Bill Camp, Moses Ingram Scott Frank, Allan Scott watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Read less American Vandal (2017) tv-ma 2 Seasons Comedy, Crime, Drama Tyler Alvarez, Griffin Gluck Dan Perrault, Tony Yacenda watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Read less The Crown (2016) tv-ma 4 Seasons Biography, Drama, History Claire Foy, Olivia Colman, Matt Smith Peter Morgan watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Read less Related Topics: Netflix | Hulu | Amazon Prime | More Streaming Services Editors' Recommendations The 10 most popular shows on Max right now The best new shows to stream on Netflix, Hulu, Max (HBO), and more The 50 best shows on Netflix in November 2023 The best movies and shows on Shudder right now (November 2023) The 50 best anime on Hulu right now Netflix Streaming Services Movie images and data from: Entertainment Even with its extensive Black Stories collection, finding the best Black movies on Netflix takes a little work. Fortunately, we're always scouring the library to find the best movies available for your movie night, and if you'd like to celebrate Black stories, creators, and actors, this list is for you. Read on to find something to watch tonight! Looking for more films and shows that illustrate the Black experience? Check out our roundups of the best Black shows and movies to stream across all platforms.
Entertainment Exploring the thousands of titles on Netflix can be both exciting and overwhelming. Content of all types abounds, from dramas and comedies to reality shows and documentaries. There's even a top 10 list to help narrow your decision by letting you see the most popular Netflix shows.
Every week, Netflix releases a list of the 10 most-watched TV shows over a recent seven-day period. Below, we have listed the top 10 shows in the U.S. from November 5 to November 12, along with general information about each show, including genre, rating, cast, and synopsis.
Entertainment Netflix is one of the most popular streaming services in the world, with nearly 250 million subscribers. And just what do those people tend to watch? In particular, what is the most popular movie on Netflix? Each week, the streaming service releases a list of its 10 most-watched movies over the preceding seven days. Below, we've listed the top 10 movies in the U.S. from November 6 to November 12, along with general information about each film, such as genre, rating, cast, and synopsis.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
