Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix F1 Live Stream Stranger Things Season 5 Best New Movies Most Popular Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney+ UFC Live Stream Best Movies on Disney+ Home Entertainment Guides Dredd, the 2012 sci-fi action remake, is popular on Netflix right now. Here’s why you should watch it By Blair Marnell Close The vast majority of American comic book fans may have very little familiarity with Judge Dredd, a character who has headlined the weekly comics serial, 2000 AD for 46 years. However, Dredd is considered to be an iconic character in British comics, and fans in the U.K. can’t seem to get enough of his sci-fi adventures in the far future of Mega-City One (which spans most of the East Coast of the former United States of America). In this world, there are no police. There are only those who serve as judge, jury, and executioner. And among the Judges, Judge Joseph Dredd is considered to be the very best.
He is the Law She knows what you’re thinking Unflinching old-school action Judge Dredd’s popularity was so great that Sylvester Stallone headlined the first Judge Dredd movie in 1995. But that movie toned down the edges that made Judge Dredd so compelling, and the film even gave Dredd a wacky sidekick played by Rob Schneider. So perhaps it shouldn’t be a surprise that Judge Dredd isn’t currently on any streaming service. Conversely, the 2012 reboot, Dredd , is currently enjoying a massive surge in popularity after it joined the top 10 most popular movies on Netflix.
Dredd wasn’t any more of a success than Judge Dredd was at the box office, but it’s very well-made and it has attracted a cult following in the 11 years since its release. But if you’re on the fence about this one, we can share three reasons why you should watch Dredd on Netflix.
The 10 most popular shows on Max right now The 10 most popular TV shows on Netflix right now 3 action movies on Netflix you need to watch in November He is the Law Entertainment Film Distributors.
Karl Urban has geek cred like few other actors, going back to his appearances in Xena: Warrior Princess , the Riddick films, the Star Trek reboot trilogy, and The Lord of the Rings trilogy. He has also lined up memorable comic book roles, including Skurge in Thor: Ragnarok and Billy Butcher in The Boys.
 But Urban’s performance as Dredd is his best genre role to date. Unlike Stallone, Urban committed to one of the key aspects of Judge Dredd’s lore: He never shows his full face.
Urban also embodied Dredd’s character more completely than Stallone did. There aren’t many redeeming aspects of Dredd’s personality, and he tends to be fairly rigid about how he dispenses justice. When Dredd says “I am the law,” you really believe that he means it thanks to Urban. And yet, Dredd does show a small measure of humanity in this movie near the end when he gives his evaluation of Anderson. Make no mistake, Dredd is not an old softy at heart. Dredd is just Dredd, and we appreciate just how comic-book-accurate he is in this movie.
She knows what you’re thinking Entertainment Film Distributors This may be lost on non-comic book readers, but Cassandra Anderson isn’t Dredd’s sidekick in the comics. She’s his equal, and Anderson has headlined her own spinoff stories for decades. That said, the filmmakers came up with a novel way to include Anderson (Olivia Thirlby) in this movie as a rookie judge under Dredd’s command. It may be a departure from the source material, but Thirlby’s interplay with Urban gives Dredd some semi-buddy comedy vibes. More importantly, Anderson is able to display a lot of empathy and vulnerability that Dredd himself can not.
Additionally, the movie doesn’t lose sight of Anderson’s telepathic abilities. Although Anderson is not quite as powerful as her comic book counterpart, some of the most visually arresting moments in the film revolve around her mental powers. Especially the scene where Anderson turns the tables on Kay (Wood Harris) by letting him believe he’s in control before giving him some very unpleasant surprises.
Unflinching old-school action Entertainment Film Distributors Dredd had a considerably lower budget than the previous Judge Dredd film. That may be one of the reasons why the futuristic Mega-City One seems decidedly less high-tech in this movie. But what Dredd lacks in visual effects it more than makes up with its action. This is an R-rated action film from start to finish, and it plays more like the Indonesian film The Raid than any other comic book flick. For most of the movie, Dredd and Anderson are trapped in a 200-floor apartment complex that is under the control of a drug lord named Madeline “Ma-Ma” Madrigal (Lena Headey). To get to Ma-Ma, the Judges literally have to fight their way from floor to floor.
Even if you don’t care for sci-fi flicks, the action in Dredd is top-notch. And if more comic book movies were this exciting then maybe the non-Marvel superhero flicks wouldn’t be struggling so much at the box office right now.
Watch Dredd on Netflix.
Editors' Recommendations 5 bad 2000s action movies that you still need to watch right now The 50 best movies on Netflix right now (November 2023) The 10 most popular movies on Netflix right now 5 sci-fi movies on Netflix you need to watch in November 5 movies like Netflix’s The Killer you should watch right now Entertainment Netflix may not have many sci-fi movies or fantasy films, but it does have an abundance of thrillers. There are so many thrillers on Netflix that it has to be one of the streamer's most popular genres. Between the original films and the new and classic films from other studios, Netflix is a prime destination for thrill-loving movie fans.
This month, Netflix added a number of thrillers including the original film, Locked In, as well as Cop Land, The Next Three Days, and Sea of Love. So if you're looking to find the best thrillers on Netflix right now, all you have to do is scroll down.
Entertainment It's not revelatory to say that the horror genre is currently undergoing a renaissance. In 2023 alone, there have been instant cult classics like Skinamarink and Cobweb, big hits like M3GAN and Scream VI, and memorable foreign entries like When Evil Lurks that have all contributed to the increased popularity of the genre. Hell, even misfires like The Last Voyage of the Demeter are more interesting than usual, and showcase an ambition and creativity that was largely lacking in horror movies from a decade ago.
INSIDIOUS: THE RED DOOR – Official Trailer (HD) Entertainment Finding time for a family movie night is tough, which is why it's important to optimize those nights when you're all together by knowing the best family movies on Netflix ahead of time. Less scrolling, more hanging, that's what we say. SWe've scoured the library to bring you this list of highlights from Netflix's collection so you can dive right into your next family movie night.
Looking for something else? We've also rounded up the best shows on Netflix, the best movies on Hulu, the best movies on Amazon Prime, and the best movies on Disney+. For Netflix fans, check out the 10 most popular movies on Netflix right now.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
