Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix F1 Live Stream Stranger Things Season 5 Best New Movies Most Popular Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney+ UFC Live Stream Best Movies on Disney+ Home Entertainment News A war begins in the new trailer for Dune: Part Two By Blair Marnell Close By splitting Frank Herbert’s classic sci-fi novel Dune into two parts, director Denis Villeneuve delayed the introduction of the story’s primary villain: The Emperor of the Universe, Shaddam IV (Christopher Walken). But in the newly released trailer for Dune: Part Two , viewers finally get their first glimpse at the man who plotted the downfall of House Atreides. House Harkonnen may have struck the blow against their rival house, but Shaddam IV allowed it because he feared that the late Duke Leto Atreides (Oscar Isaac) would unseat him. But the Emperor has badly miscalculated, because Leto’s son, Paul Atreides (Timothée Chalamet), is now poised to make Shaddam IV’s fears into a reality.
But before Paul can start a war and unseat a tyrant, he has to win the trust of his new companions in the Fremen of Arrakis. In the first film, Paul was haunted by visions of the Fremen, and by Chani (Zendaya) in particular. Now that Paul and his mother, Lady Jessica (Rebecca Ferguson), live among them, he has to live up to the Fremen’s belief that he could lead their people to freedom. To do that, Paul is going to have to learn how to ride a giant sandworm.
Image used with permission by copyright holder The trailer also introduces Florence Pugh’s Princess Irulan, the daughter of Shaddam IV. But Irulan isn’t the only major player in this unfolding conflict. As seen in the trailer, Paul will also have to face his opposite number from House Harkonnen: Feyd-Rautha (as played by Elvis star Austin Butler).
Josh Brolin also stars in the film as Gurney Halleck, with Dave Bautista as Glossu Rabban, Stephen McKinley Henderson as Thufir Hawat, Léa Seydoux as Lady Margot, Stellan Skarsgård as Baron Vladimir Harkonnen, Charlotte Rampling as Gaius Helen Mohiam, and Javier Bardem as Stilgar.
5 best sci-fi movies from the past 5 years you should watch right now Timothée Chalamet becomes a candy legend in Wonka’s first trailer Everything you need to know about Dune: Part Two In addition to directing the film, Villeneuve co-wrote the script with Jon Spaihts. Warner Bros. and Legendary will release Dune: Part Two on Friday, November 3.
Editors' Recommendations A new era begins in first Kingdom of the Planet of the Apes trailer Netflix debuts first trailer for Zack Snyder’s Rebel Moon Paul chases his destiny in the first trailer for Dune: Part Two Chainsaw Man anime gets a violent new trailer Christopher Walken will play the Emperor in Dune: Part Two Sci-Fi Tech News Entertainment Austin Butler is already poised to have a breakout year thanks to his leading role in the upcoming Elvis Presley biopic. But if Butler closes his latest deal, he may have a big role waiting for him in 2023 as well. Variety is reporting that Butler is in negotiations to portray Feyd-Rautha, one of the primary villains in Dune: Part Two.
In Frank Herbert's seminal sci-fi novel Dune, Feyd-Rautha is the heir to House Harkonnen's empire. He is noted for his sadistic streak, as well as his ruthless approach when dealing with his enemies. Feyd-Rautha is also the nephew of Baron Vladimir Harkonnen, the leader of House Harkonnen who wants to put Feyd in a position where he could become the next emperor of the galaxy. Sting memorably portrayed the character in David Lynch's 1984 adaptation of Dune, which saw The Police front man step out of a steam bath in nothing but a futuristic G-string.
Entertainment The sequel to Dune is expected to begin filming later this year, and the cast may include another big name. Via The Hollywood Reporter, Florence Pugh is in negotiations to play Princess Irulan in Dune: Part Two. However, there may be some roadblocks in the way.
According to the report, Pugh wants to see the latest script before she signs on for the role, and it's still in progress at the moment. Additionally, Pugh is in contention to play Madonna in a biopic directed by the Material Girl herself. If Pugh lands that role, it may conflict with director Denis Villeneuve’s plans to begin filming the Dune sequel this summer. There is also the matter of the war between Ukraine and Russia, which may be too close to Hungary for Warner Bros. and Legendary to film there. Villeneuve shot part of the first movie in that country.
Entertainment It's been a long time since we've seen new footage from Dune, the highly-anticipated adaptation of Frank Herbert's seminal sci-fi novel series. And unlike other Hollywood science fiction epics, the mythology of Dune isn't well-known outside of readers, or viewers who saw the previous theatrical film starring Twin Peaks' Kyle MacLaughlin and Virginia Madsen in 1984 and SYFY's TV miniseries two decades ago. That's why the newly-released trailer serves as a primer for newcomers to Dune.
Dune | Official Main Trailer Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
