Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix F1 Live Stream Stranger Things Season 5 Best New Movies Most Popular Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney+ UFC Live Stream Best Movies on Disney+ Home Entertainment Guides Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? 5 Benicio del Toro movies you should watch By Blair Marnell Close This week, the Netflix original film, Reptile , is serving as a sharp reminder of why Benicio del Toro is one of the best actors of his generation. And since we’ve already recommended three movies like Reptile , it’s time to shift gears and focus on the five Benicio del Toro movies that you should watch.
Fear and Loathing in Las Vegas (1999) Traffic (2000) 21 Grams (2003) Che (2008) Sicario (2015) Considering that del Toro made his big screen debut in Big Top Pee-wee , followed by a bit part in License to Kill , he’s really come a long way in the last 35 years. Del Toro had a very small, yet memorable role in The Usual Suspects , and he was vastly underutilized in Marvel’s Guardians of the Galaxy.
 But neither of those films is among the films we picked for the five Benicio del Toro movies you should watch. Instead, we focused on the roles that pushed del Toro to a new level as an actor, including the movie that earned him an Oscar just over two decades ago.
Fear and Loathing in Las Vegas (1999) Universal Pictures Fear and Loathing in Las Vegas is such a bizarre movie that it could only be made by director Terry Gilliam. In this adaptation of Hunter S. Thompson’s novel, del Toro’s Dr. Gonzo and Johnny Depp’s Raoul Duke are on a drug-fueled trip to Las Vegas, ostensibly for work reasons. But they’ve seemingly never met a drug they didn’t like, and the duo doesn’t get much done when they’re tripping on acid while reality breaks down from their point of view.
5 movies like Netflix’s The Killer you should watch right now 5 Reese Witherspoon movies you should watch in November 5 movies like Five Nights at Freddy’s you should watch right now This film is definitely not for everyone, and it divided critics when it was released. But there’s no denying that del Toro and Depp really threw everything they had into these oddball counterculture characters. That’s one of the biggest reasons why this film has become a cult classic.
Rent or Buy Fear and Loathing in Las Vegas on Google Play , Prime Video , YouTube , and Apple TV+.
Traffic (2000) USA Films Although del Toro was not the leading actor in Steven Soderberg’s Traffic , this turned out to be one of the most important movies in his career. Del Toro’s character, Mexican police officer Javier Rodriguez, was at the center of one of Traffic ‘s three primary storylines, and the role earned del Toro an Oscar for Best Supporting Actor. Within the film, Rodriguez’s efforts to stop drug smugglers with his partner, Manolo Sanchez (Jacob Vargas), draw the attention of General Arturo Salazar (Tomas Milian).
Salazar offers Rodriguez the opportunity of a lifetime to dismantle one of the major cartels in Mexico. However, Rodriguez’s success comes at a high price when he realizes that his actions have only helped a rival cartel eliminate their competition. This places Rodriguez in a moral quagmire, and the big question of his storyline is how he can find his way out of it.
Watch Traffic on Prime Video.
21 Grams (2003) Focus Features Director Alejandro González Iñárritu’s 21 Grams is all out of order, but that was an intentional choice so that the stories of Jack Jordan (del Toro), Cristina Peck (Naomi Watts), and Paul Rivers (Sean Penn) could unfold in a nonlinear fashion. Del Toro and Watts were both Oscar-nominated for their roles in this film, which finds Christina holding a deadly grudge against Jack over the death of her husband, Michael (Danny Huston), and their two children.
Christina’s vendetta is partially justified because Jack is in fact responsible for the hit-and-run accident that claimed her family’s lives. Jack’s feelings of guilt are so overwhelming that he actually turns himself in. But that’s not enough for Christina, so she convinces Paul, the man who received her late husband’s heart, to help her murder Jack.
Watch 21 Grams on Prime Video.
Che (2008) IFC Films In certain circles, Ernesto “Che” Guevara (del Toro) is a beloved revolutionary figure. To others, he was a Marxist terrorist. Director Steven Soderbergh definitely seemed to take the former view when he helmed Che , which reunited him with del Toro in a massive two-part bio film about Guevara’s life. The first part of the movie largely deals with Guevara’s activities during the Cuban Revolution as he helps Fidel Castro (Demián Bichir), and his brother, Raúl Castro (Rodrigo Santoro), seize power after a bloody struggle.
The second part of the film chronicles Guevara’s ill-fated revolution in Bolivia, which is complicated by his failing health and other issues with his followers. Del Toro’s performance was widely acclaimed, and it’s easily one of his best movies. But because it was distributed by IFC, this film is only available to stream on affiliated outlets like AMC+.
Watch Che on AMC+.
Sicario (2015) Lionsgate Del Toro’s character in Sicario has an intriguing backstory as laid out in the film. Alejandro Gillick (del Toro) used to be a Mexican prosecutor until a personal tragedy led him to the CIA, which recruited him and trained him as an assassin. For most of the movie, Gillick is aligned with FBI Special Agents Kate Macer (Emily Blunt) and Reggie Wayne (Daniel Kaluuya). But it soon becomes clear to Kate that Gillick’s agenda doesn’t necessarily line up with her own plans.
This movie is more focused on Blunt than del Toro, but director Denis Villeneuve ( Dune ) and screenwriter Taylor Sheridan ( Yellowstone ) created one of the actor’s most memorable roles to date. That’s one of the reasons why del Toro was brought back in the sequel, Sicario: Day of the Soldado , as the primary character.
Watch Sicario on Fubo.
Editors' Recommendations 5 best death game movies you should watch right now 5 Matthew Perry movies and TV shows you should watch besides Friends One of 2023’s best-reviewed movies is now on Netflix. Here’s why you should watch it 5 shows like Netflix’s Elite you should watch 3 horror movies on Freevee you should watch this Halloween Entertainment The best sci-fi movies often push the boundaries of what's possible to depict on the big screen by taking on complex fictional concepts that are often rooted in reality. Recent films in the category embrace the intersection between science, philosophy, and humanity, and use mind-blowing visuals and cutting-edge cinematography to bolster filmmakers' ambitious efforts.
From the visually stunning and otherworldly story told in Dune to the mind-bending mix of existentialism and the multiverse in Everything Everywhere All at Once, the greatest science fiction movies from the past five years represent the best that the genre has to offer. With so much to explore in the genre, these are the few standouts that should be considered essential viewing for fans.
Ad Astra (2019) Entertainment It's officially spooky season, meaning it's finally time to binge as many horror movies as we can get our hands on.
One of the best parts of the Halloween season is celebrating with scary movies whether they feature goofy ghouls or bloody slashers. Unfortunately, this October doesn't have many big-time horror movies coming to theaters, though. The largest horror release would go to Five Nights at Freddy's on October 27, but the rest of the theater slate leaves much to be desired for horror fans. Thankfully, though, various streaming services are loading up their platforms with spooky hits to satiate our desires.
Entertainment The Assassination of Jesse James by the Coward Robert Ford Warner Bros.
After years of anticipation, Martin Scorsese’s latest movie, Killers of the Flower Moon, is finally here. The film, an adaptation of David Grann’s 2017 nonfiction novel of the same name, explores the real-life murders that were carried out against members of the Osage Nation after oil was discovered under their lands in 1920s Oklahoma. Running 206 minutes long and starring Scorsese mainstays like Leonardo DiCaprio and Robert De Niro, as well as a quietly transcendent Lily Gladstone, the drama is a chilling exploration of greed, systemic racism, and white supremacy.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
