Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix F1 Live Stream Stranger Things Season 5 Best New Movies Most Popular Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney+ UFC Live Stream Best Movies on Disney+ Home Entertainment Reviews ‘Get Out’ review Jordan Peele's 'Get Out' is so good, it's scary By Rick Marshall Close Whether it’s accidental or intentional, sometimes a movie arrives in theaters at just the right time.
Such is the case for writer-director Jordan Peele’s thriller Get Out , the story of a black man who discovers all is not what it seems at his white girlfriend’s family estate, which hits theaters at a point when racism, xenophobia, and fear of anyone different are shaping our social and political climate in terrifying ways. It’s an environment that has audiences primed to connect with the film’s clever (and exceptionally scary) themes, and connect it does – with shocking, and occasionally, uncomfortably real results.
The directorial debut of the Key & Peele co-creator, Get Out casts Daniel Kaluuya ( Skins , Black Mirror ) as a young, black man who agrees to accompany his girlfriend, Rose (played by Girls actress Allison Williams), on a visit to her family’s sprawling home. The more time he spends around Rose and her family, however, the more clues pile up that suggest something is very, very wrong with everyone there – particularly the other non-white people he encounters.
The 50 best shows on Netflix in November 2023 The best movies and shows on Shudder right now (November 2023) Paramount+ launches Tis the Season for Streaming holiday collection A tense tale from its opening moments to its brutal third act, Get Out is so expertly paced and delivers its frights at just the right frequency (and degree of scariness) that it’s easy to forget that Peele is a first-time filmmaker. To his credit, Peele also manages to avoid doing what’s expected at nearly every turn in the plot, even going so far as to occasionally tease his audience with a potential trope, only to take things somewhere else entirely at critical moments.
The timing couldn’t be more appropriate for the film to arrive in theaters.
Given how predictable the horror genre can be, Peele does a surprisingly good job of avoiding the easy scares – something that speaks volumes to his awareness of the genre and its potential beyond what’s been done time and time before.
As the film’s lead, Kaluuya walks a fine balance between being more aware and perceptive of what’s going on around him than the typical horror movie protagonist while still retaining that precious degree of naivety that makes the twists that much more unnerving when they do happen. When the lights finally do come on – figuratively – for Kaluuya’s character, he handles the transition from victim to determined survivor in believable fashion, coming off with a mix of reluctance and visceral desperation that works well with how he’s played the character up to that point.
Of the supporting cast, the always reliable Catherine Keener ( Being John Malkovich , Capote ) offers a nice reminder why she’s a two-time Oscar nominee with a performance as Rose’s hypnotherapist mother that shifts from warm to ice-cold sinister in subtle increments. As Rose’s father, Emmy winner Bradley Whitford ( The West Wing, The Good Guys ) maintains a constant state of awkward creepiness that wavers between being funny and dangerously loony at various points, to great effect.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Williams herself turns in a performance that, although it isn’t matched by Keener and Whitford, also manages to squeeze a lot out of a character that’s somewhat limited for much of the film.
In much the same way It Follows tapped into the awkward fear lurking below the surface of sex and young adulthood, Get Out mines its scares from generations’ worth of simmering racism and bigotry. And with so much of that hatred bubbling to the surface in recent months, the timing couldn’t be more appropriate for the film to arrive in theaters. Its themes resonate in ways that make the scares just a little more frightening, and its horrifying narrative a little more real than it might have seemed a year ago.
Hopefully, Peele is just getting started.
Editors' Recommendations The 50 best movies on Netflix right now (November 2023) The best Hulu original series right now The 50 best anime on Hulu right now The best feel-good movies on Netflix right now The best comedies on Netflix right now Entertainment You're going to see a lot of Christmas movies on Hulu through the end of the year. 'Tis the season for the Huludays, after all. While we'll go over your Christmas options at a later date, this month's selections of the best movies on Hulu feature a new original film, Quiz Lady, as well as A Haunting in Venice, which recently finished its theatrical run. The other prominent new additions are Jumanji: Welcome to the Jungle and the comedy biopic Driven.
Need help keeping up with everything new on Hulu? Every month, we go over the greatest films that Hulu has to offer while keeping track of what's coming and going. That's why our update of the best movies on Hulu is always current. We're here to help you plan your next movie night.
Entertainment There aren’t many filmmakers alive who have built as impressive of a filmography as David Fincher. After making a name for himself with his music video work, Fincher slowly but surely emerged over the course of the 1990s as one of the most promising directors of his generation. In the decades that have followed, he’s only continued to garner more respect and fans, helming some of the most acclaimed films of the past 30 years. Now, 3 years after his last film, Fincher is returning this fall with The Killer.
The movie, an assassin thriller starring Michael Fassbender, marks Fincher’s return to the same world of darkly perverse crime stories that he’s spent many years of his career operating in. With that in mind, now seems like as good a time as any to look back at all of the movies that the filmmaker has made throughout his career -- and rank them from worst to best.
11. Alien 3 (1992) Entertainment ESPN is synonymous with sports on TV. It stands to reason, then, that ESPN+ gets you more sports. And it does, in that newfangled way that transcends sports on TV. ESPN+ is the future of ESPN in a streaming world. Probably. Eventually. Sort of.
It's a little complicated. It's perhaps better at the moment to consider ESPN+ the streaming service complementary to ESPN the cable network. You can get some of what's on ESPN on ESPN+. But at the same time, ESPN Plus has a lot that you can't get on the cable network.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
