Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix F1 Live Stream Stranger Things Season 5 Best New Movies Most Popular Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney+ UFC Live Stream Best Movies on Disney+ Home Entertainment Reviews Guillermo del Toro’s Pinocchio review: Gorgeous, no strings attached By Rick Marshall Close Gorgeous animation Recontextualizes familiar story Powerful emotional beats Great music Runs long for a children's film Themes and tone occasionally skew bleak Carlo Collodi’s 1883 novel The Adventures of Pinocchio has been adapted and reimagined in one form or another countless times, to the point where the adventures of its titular, wooden marionette brought to life have become a generation-spanning touchstone in popular culture. It’s been done so often, in fact, that it’s fair to wonder whether there’s any way to make the 140-year-old tale feel fresh and fascinating.
Dark delights Light in the shadows An impressive cast In perfect measure And yet, Guillermo del Toro manages to do just that — and so much more — in his gorgeous and brilliantly crafted adaptation of Pinocchio , which makes a strong case for itself as one of the year’s best films, animated or otherwise.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Dark delights Directed by del Toro and Mark Gustafson from a screenplay del Toro penned with Patrick McHale ( Adventure Time ), the stop-motion animated Pinocchio — also known as Guillermo del Toro’s Pinocchio to differentiate itself from Disney’s disappointing, live-action Pinocchio released just a few months ago — holds plenty of surprises for anyone familiar with the well-worn tale, beginning with its setting.
Guillermo del Toro’s Pinocchio trailer reimagines the classic tale Glass Onion review: a deviously intricate Knives Out sequel Guillermo del Toro’s Cabinet of Curiosities receives trailer and release date Rather than setting the film in the late 19th century, del Toro’s Pinocchio unfolds in Fascist Italy during the 1930s and incorporates the political and cultural tensions of the era into its main character’s adventures. The intense religious and nationalistic influences of the era loom large over this version of the tale and cast a darker, more complicated shadow over an otherwise familiar story.
That shift in tone shouldn’t come as much of a surprise for those with some awareness of del Toro’s oeuvre, and in many ways, the saga of Pinocchio plays to his strengths. Del Toro is a master of blending wonder and whimsy with the macabre and unsettling, and the film’s use of stop-motion animation to tell a story both energetically playful and darkly existential aligns perfectly with del Toro’s approach to storytelling.
To be clear, it’s not all doom and gloom in del Toro’s Pinocchio , but parents expecting something akin to Disney’s lighthearted, brightly colored spin on Collodi’s tale should probably prepare for some complicated — but important — conversations about faith, fascism, war, and mortality as the title character bounces from one predicament to the next in 1930s Italy. The film’s “PG” rating arguably belies the intensity of the story’s willingness to let its characters grapple with the meaning of life and what it means to live well, as well as how we process grief when those around us pass on.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Light in the shadows For all of the somber themes explored in Pinocchio , there’s also plenty of fun to be found in the character’s adventures, too.
Gregory Mann voices the film’s wooden boy and does a fantastic job of imbuing his on-screen silliness with as much heart as the sadder moments. The film has no trouble pivoting when the story calls for humor and the sort of raw, unfiltered happiness that comes from being a young boy in a world full of wonders (particularly when that sentiment can be expressed in a song) and the film’s creative team finds room for plenty of both in Pinocchio’s adventure.
Once you get accustomed to the visual aesthetic of del Toro’s stop-motion Pinocchio , it’s easy to get lost in the nooks and crannies of the gorgeously detailed sets and the features of each and every character introduced in the film. The richness and detail of their movements and interactions with the world around them are so captivating and smooth that it feels like a minor miracle for any animation team to pull off, and every scene in the film feels like a celebration of the puppet team’s tremendous talents.
Conveying the highs and lows of Pinocchio’s experiences — as well as those of his creator, Geppetto (voiced by David Bradley), and the rest of the characters — is no easy ask when you’re working with puppets, but the puppeteers and animators fill every character with emotive power.
Image used with permission by copyright holder An impressive cast It speaks volumes to the immersive nature of Pinocchio that it’s so easy to look past the impressive voice cast del Toro assembled for the film.
Along with Mann and Bradley, who bring a tremendous amount of depth to Pinocchio and Geppetto, respectively, Ewan McGregor is a triple threat as the voice of Sebastian J. Cricket (a.k.a. “Jiminy”), the film’s narrator, and an occasional singer as the story unfolds. He performs well in all three responsibilities, and his rich voice provides some much-needed humor and a sense of gravitas at various points.
Also delivering strong strong voice performances are Ron Perlman and Christoph Waltz, who portray Podestà and Count Volpe, respectively — two of the story’s primary antagonists.
Perlman’s gravelly voice is perfectly suited to portray Podestà, the town’s highest-ranking official in the Fascist government and the demanding father of Candlewick, the human boy who eventually befriends Pinocchio. Waltz is even more perfectly cast as Volpe, the down-on-his-luck carnival puppeteer who sees a money-making opportunity in Pinocchio. The Oscar-winning Django Unchained and Inglourious Basterds actor throw himself into Volpe’s musical numbers with an enjoyment that pours out of his delivery and makes his evil character all the more fun to watch.
In perfect measure There aren’t many filmmakers around who can walk the line that del Toro navigates so well in Pinocchio.
It’s impossible to decide whether Pinocchio is more accurately billed as a children’s movie with mature themes or a film for adults built like a movie for children. Del Toro seems content in letting it be both, and it offers a powerful, rewarding experience regardless of how one sees fit to describe it.
No matter how it’s billed, del Toro’s Pinocchio is something special and offers a strong reminder that some stories are truly timeless, capable of moving us and eliciting a powerful response no matter where we are in life. Its themes are universal, even as it tells a story that feels wonderfully singular in its look and method of delivery.
In both its ambition and execution, Pinocchio provides yet another reason why del Toro is one of Hollywood’s most visionary filmmakers, and if it does indeed earn the award recognition Netflix is hoping for, it will be a well-deserved honor.
After a brief theatrical run, Guillermo del Toro’s Pinocchio is available now on Netflix.
Editors' Recommendations 5 great Wesley Snipes movies you should watch The School for Good and Evil review: Middling magic Pinocchio review: nothing new to see in wooden adaptation Netflix debuts the teaser for Guillermo del Toro’s Pinocchio Bubble review: Sometimes spectacle is enough Product Reviews Entertainment Over the course of his career, Richard Linklater has established himself as the unofficial American master of the “hangout movie.” In films like Dazed and Confused and Everybody Wants Some!! Linklater has lovingly recreated eras that have been lost to time. In doing so, he's made films about the finiteness of youth, and the ways in which the kids of the ‘70s and ‘80s both were and were not ready for what was coming for them.
In his Before trilogy, Linklater took the structure of a hangout movie and used it to make three separate films that are among the most romantic ever made. On their own, the three films, which were produced over the course of 18 years, work as vignettes of specific moments in time in much the same way Dazed and Confused and Everybody Wants Some!! do. Put together, they form a trilogy about how love can evolve and endure over time.
Entertainment Guillermo del Toro is one of the most prolific contemporary filmmakers. Since he emerged in the early 1990s in his native Mexico, he has directed, produced, written, and even lent his voice to scores of films. The Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences has taken notice, nominating del Toro for six Oscars over his career (two of which he's won), with his most recent nomination coming as producer of Nightmare Alley, which was nominated for Best Picture.
Perhaps more impressively, del Toro has received great acclaim for films in typically disreputable genres – creature features, ghost stories, fairy tales, and B-list superhero flicks (Blade II, Hellboy). But no matter the genre or the approach – highbrow or lowbrow – his vision and style have been recognized as among the most distinctive in cinema. Here are the best feature films Guillermo del Toro has directed, according to Rotten Tomatoes.
10. Mimic (1997) – 64% Entertainment Oscar-winning filmmaker Guillermo del Toro has a knack for making audiences uncomfortable in beautiful ways. Whether he's exploring human-merman romance in The Shape of Water or filtering the horrors of war through a dark, fairy-tale lens in Pan's Labyrinth, he always finds a way to drape darkness and depravity in a gorgeous, cinematic atmosphere that captures your attention and holds it there, no matter what unfolds on the screen.
Such is the case with Nightmare Alley, a neo-noir thriller co-written and directed by del Toro and based on William Lindsay Gresham's novel of the same name. The film follows an ambitious carnival worker who uses his training in reading and manipulating people to pull off one lucrative con after another and rise through society. When he partners with a cold, calculating psychologist in order to go after a wealthy, ruthless businessman, the former carny soon finds himself wrapped up in a dangerous game he can't afford to lose.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
