Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending in Computing: Best Dell Laptops ChatGPT Best Monitors Asus ROG Azoth Review How to delete a page in Word in 3 easy steps RTX 4080 vs RTX 4070 Ti Best Mac Apps AMD vs Intel Recall an Email in Outlook Home Entertainment Guides Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? How to download movies from Netflix for offline viewing By Nick Perry and Michael Bizzaco Close Whether you're boarding an aircraft, commuting by train, or preparing for a cross-country bus trip, there's a chance that you will travel without Wi-Fi. Even if networking is available, the price for connecting may be too deep for some pockets. While you can do your best with what mobile data you have available, there will inevitably be dead zones on your journey where cell signal is zilch.
If you're a Netflix subscriber and planned on using this travel time to enjoy a Netflix movie , don't worry. You're not out of luck.
You can watch quite a few Netflix movies and shows while on the go, thanks to the platform's offline-viewing feature. If you're paying for one of Netflix's streaming plans ( the new Basic with Ads plan excepted), downloading content to watch at another time is a pretty straightforward process that takes all the pain out of worrying about when you'll be able to connect to Wi-Fi again. We're here to show you how to download movies from Netflix.
Get your download on How much space do I need? What’s available? No downloads for Netflix's new ad-tier How to enable automatic downloads How do I delete titles? Difficulty Duration What You Need Netflix account (any except Basic with Ads) iOS, Android , Amazon Fire, Chromebook, or Windows 10 device Netflix app The following instructions should work for iOS, Android, Amazon Kindle Fire, Fire tablet, Chromebook and Chromebox, and Windows 10 devices and computers. Of note: While Windows PC users can download episodes to watch offline, they must use the Netflix app from the Windows Store to do so.
Oh, and if you're here, you might also be interested in our other guides covering how to download movies and shows from Amazon Prime Video , Disney+ , Hulu , and Apple TV+.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Get your download on Step 1: Get up to date First things first, make sure your Netflix app is up to date. If you don't have your device set to auto-update, click the App Store application for iOS devices (you'll need version 9.0 or later), or do the same in the Google Play Store for Android devices.
If you're using Netflix on your Amazon Kindle Fire or Fire device, follow these instructions to update the app, and for Chrome and Chromebox devices, you can watch using the browser or with the Netflix app from the Google Play Store — just make sure it's up to date as well.
If you plan on using Netflix for Windows 10 , select Store in the taskbar or Start menu, click your user icon, and select Downloads or Updates.
 Finally, choose Check for Updates , and the Netflix application will begin updating.
Step 2: Choose your download quality Netflix offers two quality levels for downloads: Standard and High. The latter is high definition — "up to 1080p depending on the TV show or movie," Netflix says. Standard uses less space on your device and allows you to download content more quickly, whereas High takes a bit more space and patience. Which one you’ll want will depend on how much free space you have and what kind of device you're using. The Standard mode's appearance may look fine on your new phone , for instance, whereas a higher resolution may be preferable for your tablet or laptop.
To choose, locate the App settings menu. It could be called More or found under your profile icon on Amazon, Android (Chrome app as well), or iOS smartphone apps. From there, under the Downloads heading, click or tap Video quality or Download video quality ( Android ) and select your preferred quality. On Windows 10, go to Menu > Settings > Download and select the video quality there.
We’ll get into more detail on how much space Netflix downloads take up later in this article.
Image used with permission by copyright holder The best Black movies on Netflix right now The best feel-good movies on Netflix right now 3 action movies on Netflix you need to watch in November Step 3: Pick your show or movie Not everything on Netflix is available for download, but the company has made downloadable titles easy to find by arranging them in a special section aptly named “Available for Download.” This category can be found among the other genre options, as a sub-menu when you select TV Shows or Movies.
 On Windows 10 devices, it will be the penultimate option underneath the Home section. If you’re using the Netflix app for iOS, Android, Chrome, or Amazon devices, under the Downloads tab you can also select Find More to Download or Find Something to Download to view the available titles.
If you’re searching for a specific title, you’ll know that it can be downloaded by the Download icon, which is a downward arrow with a horizontal line beneath it.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Step 4: Start downloading To begin downloading a title, select the Download icon affixed to the show or movie you want to watch. Here’s a quick pro tip for Android users: The Netflix app lets you specify which storage location you want for downloads. Previously, Netflix would default to the storage device on which the app exists, but an update helped to expand capabilities. Now, you can pop a microSD card into your smartphone and you’ll have an option to set it as your default download location in the App Settings menu.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Step 5: Watch your downloaded titles Once downloaded, all Netflix content will appear in the Downloads section. Tap the Downloads menu on mobile devices or the Menu button in the application’s upper-left corner on Windows. The title’s size and rating are listed directly beside it. To play an episode, simply click or tap the video thumbnail.
Image used with permission by copyright holder How much space do I need? Just how much storage space a download takes up depends on how long the title is and the resolution quality. To give you a sense of the numbers, we went ahead and downloaded the first episode of Taboo and Ryan Reynolds' Netflix movie The Adam Project in both Standard and High resolutions on an iPhone 13 Pro.
Taboo 's episode has a runtime of 57 minutes, and its high-quality version used 981.2MB of space, while the Standard version used 226.4MB.
The Adam Project , at one hour and 46 minutes, took up 1.12GB of space in High and 493.8MB in Standard. It’s always a good idea to see how much available space you have on your device before choosing between Standard or High quality.
What’s available? Not all of the shows and movies on Netflix are available for download, usually because the networks that own them have requested they be left off the list. But the good news is that every Netflix Original we’ve come across has been available to download, including Bridgerton , The Last Kingdom , Vikings Valhalla , Stranger Things , The Witcher , and Cobra Kai.
Non-Netflix Original titles available at the time of writing included TV shows like Better Call Saul , Breaking Bad , The Good Place , and Schitt’s Creek.
 Movies available for download included There Will Be Blood , The Devil All the Time , Sorry to Bother You , and A Nightmare on Elm Street.
There are some restrictions on how many times you can download some titles and how long you have to watch them, however. For example, you can’t download the same episode of Bridgerton more than three times in a single billing cycle. (Weird, we know.) You’ll also need to watch each one within a month of downloading it before it expires for offline viewing.
Not every property is so generous when it comes to downloading content. Occasionally, you’ll stumble upon a movie or show that can be downloaded only once, as a result of the licensing agreement Netflix has with the network that owns it. Such titles also tend to expire after a week if you fail to show them any attention and they usually disappear 48 hours after you first hit play.
No downloads for Netflix's new ad-tier If you haven't heard the recent news regarding the launch of Netflix's new Basic with Ads tier, you can check out our post on how much it and all of the other Netflix plans are (spoiler, it's $7 per month). And while it's now the most affordable Netflix plan you can get, you do have to put up with ads being sprinkled throughout the shows and movies you watch. But most importantly, in the context of this post, the ad-supported tier does not allow for downloading for offline viewing.
How to enable automatic downloads While manually selecting titles for download is a great feature unto itself, wouldn't it be awesome if Netflix allowed you to download content automatically? Well, you're in luck. Earlier this year, Netflix introduced a new feature for Android users called Downloads For You that uses your Netflix viewing history to curate and download movies and TV shows that are in line with your tastes. It took a while, but the feature is now also available for iOS devices. Here's how to activate it.
Step 1: Opting in to Downloads For You is a straightforward process, but do keep in mind that the feature requires a Wi-Fi connection (no cellular data). To get things started, pop open the Netflix app and tap Downloads on the bottom navigation bar. Next, tap Smart Downloads at the top of the following screen. Then, all you have to do is toggle Downloads For You either on/off.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Step 2: If you're concerned about how much storage Netflix will commandeer on your device, you can adjust data storing preferences by selecting Allocate Storage.
 By using the Plus and Minus icons, you can choose between 1GB, 3GB, and 5GB storage caps.
How do I delete titles? Whether you’ve already watched downloaded titles or simply want to make room for other things, you’ll eventually want to get rid of them, especially considering you can only have 100 things downloaded at a time. There are two ways to go about this, depending on how much content you want to delete at once.
Step 1: Deleting a single title If you want to delete a single title, you can do so via the My Downloads section. For iOS and Android apps , just tap the Pen icon, which will give you the option to select the title or titles you want to delete. In Windows 10, for example, just open the title, click on the Downloaded button, and select Delete Download.
 You can also click on the Pencil Edit icon and choose the files to delete.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Step 2: Deleting all titles You could delete everything in the My Downloads section individually, but if you’re looking to clear everything all at once, there’s an easier way. Go to Settings , then simply click on Delete All Downloads.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Having a library of downloaded movies and shows on your device the next time you find yourself out and about or on the road and without a Wi-Fi connection will make for a much more pleasant and entertaining time-killing situation.
Editors' Recommendations The 50 best movies on Netflix right now (November 2023) The 10 most popular movies on Netflix right now The Netflix Cup live stream: how to watch the live golf event 5 sci-fi movies on Netflix you need to watch in November Best new movies to stream on Netflix, Hulu, Prime Video, Max (HBO), and more Computing Mobile How-To Guides Netflix Streaming Services Entertainment When you need to keep the kids occupied for a while, it's helpful to know the best kids movies on Netflix right now.
Netflix has an enormous library of kid-friendly content, including a host of original choose-your-own-adventure stories, but it's natural as a parent to want to know what your kids is watching. So, to help you find something quickly, we keep tabs on the collection every month and surface the best options here.
Entertainment Finding time for a family movie night is tough, which is why it's important to optimize those nights when you're all together by knowing the best family movies on Netflix ahead of time. Less scrolling, more hanging, that's what we say. SWe've scoured the library to bring you this list of highlights from Netflix's collection so you can dive right into your next family movie night.
Looking for something else? We've also rounded up the best shows on Netflix, the best movies on Hulu, the best movies on Amazon Prime, and the best movies on Disney+. For Netflix fans, check out the 10 most popular movies on Netflix right now.
Entertainment The best action movies on Netflix right now include some all-time classics, at least one major 2023 summer blockbuster, and a whole lot more. But, like with any collection on Netflix, the library is always changing. There are a few quality additions for November, and we're keeping tabs on them for you to curate this list to help you keep up the action on your next movie night.
We've also curated guides to the best action movies on Amazon Prime, the best action movies on Disney+, and the best action movies on Hulu if you're looking for additional recommendations.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
