Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix F1 Live Stream Stranger Things Season 5 Best New Movies Most Popular Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney+ UFC Live Stream Best Movies on Disney+ Home Entertainment Features Dial of Destiny proves that the Indiana Jones franchise should end now By Carson Burton Close In 1981, Indiana Jones first graced the big screen in Steven Spielberg’s now-classic movie Raiders of the Lost Ark.
 Forty-two years later, it’s time for Indy — his movies, his adventures, and his character — to end.
It’s OK for franchises to end Should Indiana Jones go the James Bond route and recast? Let Indiana Jones rest in peace The fifth installment in the Indiana Jones franchise, Indiana Jones and the Dial of Destiny , just hit theaters last week to a so-so opening weekend at the box office. The film follows Harrison Ford ‘s titular character as he dons his hat once more after he’s pulled into a high-stakes adventure years in the making. Featuring Phoebe Waller-Bridge as Indy’s goddaughter Helena Shaw and Mads Mikkelsen as the villainous Nazi Jürgen Voller, Dial of Destiny sees an aged Indiana Jones reckoning with his world and legacy.
The movie is directed by James Mangold of Logan and Ford v Ferrari fame, making it the first Indy movie without Steven Spielberg at the helm. Spielberg’s touch is at the heart of everything Indy, from the beloved and classic Raiders of the Lost Ark to the oft-maligned Kingdom of the Crystal Skull.
Dial of Destiny also marks the first time without George Lucas taking on writing duties.
The Halloween franchise should have ended 25 years ago with Halloween H20: 20 Years Later Indiana Jones and the Dial of Destiny’s ending, explained 15 years later, is Indiana Jones and the Kingdom of the Crystal Skull still bad? While Dial of Destiny may not be the greatest Indiana Jones movie ever made, the film provides a loving conclusion to one of the all-time great adventure franchises. Indiana Jones has produced some of the greatest adventure films ever created, and its legacy will assuredly live on forever. However, Dial of D estiny proves one thing is certain: it’s time for this franchise to end.
It’s OK for franchises to end Image used with permission by copyright holder Dial of Destiny ‘s most impactful moments come when it’s dealing with and reckoning with the ongoing, never-ending passage of time. From Indy’s own age to the film’s aesthetic mix of old-school adventure entertainment and high-tech CGI, there’s a rumination on time and “progress” going on in Dial of Destiny.
 By pairing Indy with Helena, a young adventurer that mirrors much of Indy’s own character, Mangold is mixing the new and the old, a common theme in the movie.
Time is the name of the game; even the film’s MacGuffin, a dial created by Archimedes that can predict “fissures in time,” is dealing directly with ideas of time.
Dial of Destiny , which likely isn’t going to be seen as the best Indy movie despite cashing in some high-class entertainment, reckons with the legacy of not only Indy but also these kinds of films and adventures.
There is so much more to discuss with Dial of Destiny itself, but, to put it shortly, all of this suggests that Dial of Destiny is aware of its nature. It’s aware that it’s likely time for Indiana Jones to hang up his hat. It’s also probably time for Indiana Jones as a franchise to do the same.
Should Indiana Jones go the James Bond route and recast? Image used with permission by copyright holder An avenue that a studio could have taken — and still can take — with this franchise is to take the James Bond route.
 Recast Indiana Jones every few years and continue creating an expansive timeline of adventures. It wouldn’t really be that hard. The form, structure, and stakes of an Indiana Jones movie are such an open yet effective model, much like a James Bond movie. It allows for creativity within the margins, but it’s all largely just a highly effective action-adventure series with a zany and personable lead.
I wouldn’t be surprised if, in a few years, Disney actually does announce they are taking this route, but that would be a shame. The best strategy at this point would be to move on. Indiana Jones will always be Spielberg, Lucas, and Ford. Those three minds are crucial to this franchise; it doesn’t seem like we will ever see those three reunite for an Indiana Jones movie again. Mangold’s film can function as an Indy movie thanks to Ford as well as its internal text of franchise reckoning. I’m not convinced that a film without Ford or Spielberg and Lucas will ever feel like an Indiana Jones movie.
Let Indiana Jones rest in peace Indiana Jones and the Dial of Destiny is a loving conclusion wherein Indy is finally happy and at peace, yet the adventure will never really end. The world is made for adventuring, and nothing is impossible. Sure, it doesn’t hold the visual flair and emotional heart that only Spielberg is able to capture so deftly. It’s not Raiders or The Last Crusade.
 It’s not reinventing the genre. But it sure is entertaining.
While watching Mangold’s newest installment, I couldn’t help but think that it’s unfortunate that we likely won’t ever see these movies again. Spielberg, Lucas, and Ford caught lightning in a bottle, and I could likely watch Indy and his spelunking until the end of time. However, all good things must come to an end.
As sad as it may be, it’s time to let Indiana Jones die.
Editors' Recommendations You probably didn’t watch the most underrated crime thriller of the 2010s. Here’s why you should see it now Indiana Jones and the perils of sequelizing Steven Spielberg Han Solo vs. Indiana Jones: Which one is Harrison Ford’s greatest role? Heat is one of the best movies ever. Here’s why you should watch it on Netflix right now Indy faces his destiny in new Indiana Jones 5 trailer Action Features Entertainment While 2022 was a great year for movies, 2023 promises to top it with a schedule full of great films from all types of genres, including science fiction (Dune Part Two), comic book (The Flash), drama (The Color Purple), and comedy like Barbie.
One genre in particular is geared to have a great year in 2023: action. Whether sequels, video game adaptations, of reboots, these five action films stand out as the best of a very crowded pack that we can't wait to watch later in the year.
John Wick: Chapter 4 (March 24) John Wick: Chapter 4 (2023 Movie) Official Trailer – Keanu Reeves, Donnie Yen, Bill Skarsgård Entertainment Sometimes, Hollywood doesn't know to quit when it's ahead. After finding success with a film, studios try and keep the money train coming by shoveling more and more sequels into theaters. Though some sequels turn out great or even better than the original film, there comes a point where the franchise derails itself, making audiences wish it had stopped when it was at its best. In that spirit, here is a list of films that should've been the end of their franchise.
15. National Lampoon's Christmas Vacation After the Griswolds traveled across and outside the U.S., their third movie had them stay at home for their Christmas vacation. Surprisingly, it became the most profitable film in the franchise with its many hilarious and heartfelt moments. But after that, there wasn't anything else for the series to do to warrant any more sequels.
Entertainment After years of development, Disney and Lucasfilm finally released the first trailer for the hotly anticipated Indiana Jones 5, which is now titled Indiana Jones and the Dial of Destiny. The title announcement and trailer reveal occurred at Brazil's Comic Con.
Harrison Ford reprises his role as Dr. Indiana Jones, the iconic archeologist and adventurer who debuted in 1981's Raiders of the Lost Ark. The film will be set during the Space Race of 1969 as the U.s. and the Soviet Union battle for global supremacy. The nostalgic trailer highlights the exciting action and adventure that viewers have come to love throughout the franchise's 40-year history.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
