Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix F1 Live Stream Stranger Things Season 5 Best New Movies Most Popular Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney+ UFC Live Stream Best Movies on Disney+ Home Entertainment Guides Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? This underrated 2023 horror movie on Netflix deserves more love. Here’s why you should watch it By Jason Struss Close It’s not revelatory to say that the horror genre is currently undergoing a renaissance. In 2023 alone, there have been instant cult classics like Skinamarink and Cobweb , big hits like M3GAN and Scream VI , and memorable foreign entries like When Evil Lurks that have all contributed to the increased popularity of the genre. Hell, even misfires like The Last Voyage of the Demeter are more interesting than usual, and showcase an ambition and creativity that was largely lacking in horror movies from a decade ago.
It’s the rare horror movie about trauma that’s actually scary It finally utilizes its iconic villain to great effect It has a budget to fully realize its scary potential It features the scariest scene of 2023 Yet, there’s one horror film that, despite being one of the highest-grossing movies of the year, has been criminally ignored. When it was released on July 7, 2023, Insidious: The Red Door was largely scorned by critics, with many claiming it was derivative and not really that scary. It was promptly overshadowed by July’s other major horror hit, Talk to Me , which, with its unique premise, memorable visuals of young people becoming possessed by a disembodied hand, and clever marketing from boutique horror studio A24, became the critical darling of horror.
Talk to Me deserved all the accolades it got; it’s a creepy tale of generational trauma told very well. But so is Insidious: The Red Door ; it’s just scarier and less “artistic” than Talk to Me and other movies like it. In other words, it’s a true meat-and-potatoes horror movie, one that is first and foremost concerned with scaring the hell out of you. It’s by far the best movie in the largely disappointing Insidious franchise, and it’s a 2023 movie that deserves a second look and a critical reevaluation.
3 underrated 1980s sci-fi TV shows you should watch in November This 2019 Liam Neeson action movie is popular on Netflix. Here’s why 3 underrated movies on Prime Video you need to watch in November It’s the rare horror movie about trauma that’s actually scary Sony It seems you can’t make a modern horror movie nowadays without it being about trauma.
A24’s horror movies didn’t start this trend, but they popularized it with Hereditary and Midsommar.
 Even sillier horror movies like M3GAN pay lip service to some element of trauma the protagonist has to face and overcome before the movie ends. I don’t mind this as a trope — it can make the terror more visceral and existential — but its too often prioritized over what horror movies are supposed to do: scare the hell out of you.
The Red Door doesn’t make that mistake. While it sheds light on the generational trauma between fathers and sons, particularly that of Patrick Wilson’s Josh and Ty Simpkins’ Dalton, it does so in a way that foregrounds the horror and delivers the thrills you’d expect from a movie like this.
The Red Door is an honest horror movie; there are cheap jump scares, yes, but genuinely creepy scenes, too, like Wilson being slowly stalked by an approaching ghost while he sits in a car.
What does that have to do with trauma? Nothing, and that’s the point. The movie is free to be a scary roller coaster ride, yet it also does adequately address the strained relationship between Josh and Dalton, and how that links back to Josh’s own troubled relationship with his father in a way that feels earned and honest.
The Red Door is a rare thing: it’s an unpretentious horror movie that’s still about something. It can be superficially enjoyable, yet it also has a depth and subtext that’s there if you want to look for it.
It finally utilizes its iconic villain to great effect Sony Every horror franchise has their recognizable villain: It has Pennywise, Halloween has Michael Myers, Child’s Play has Chucky, etc.
Insidious has the Lipstick-Face Demon, who is also known as the Red-Face Demon or The Man With Fire in His Face. Whatever you call him, he’s instantly recognizable since he’s part of one of the most terrifying jump scares in the entire history of horror movies. Don’t believe me? Just watch below: Yet, due to a combination of budgetary restraints and lack of imagination among the makers of the previous Insidious movies , he was never really used that effectively.
The Red Door changes that by making him the primary antagonist of the movie, and a formidable force to be reckoned with. He’s not just a jump scare this time, or hiding in the shadows; in The Red Door , he’s aggressive, present, and all-caps EVIL — and you finally feel the full force of his menace in this movie.
It has a budget to fully realize its scary potential As a genre, horror is known to have small budgets that don’t hinder the storytelling process. In fact, that handicap is often an asset as it forces filmmakers to think more creatively given the limited tools and resources they have to pull off their scares. Just look at this year’s Skinamarink ; it cost $15,000 to make and is one of the creepiest movies ever made.
That’s not the case with the Insidious movies.
The first movie cost $1.5 million , while the first sequel’s price tag was around $5 million. James Wan, as good as he sometimes can be as a director, let the seams show in the first two entries. In their depiction of the purgatory dimension called The Further, these movies had their casts running around in what looked like empty gymnasiums filled with smoke and cheap set dressing. The small budgets ruined the illusion, and took me out of the horror fantasy they were trying to evoke.
At $16 million, The Red Door doesn’t have that much more of a budget, but it’s enough for it to look and feel like a legit haunted house movie. The Further and its many demons are more realized, scarier, and bloodier, and the movie looks better, too. It’s, dare I say it, cinematic , in a way the other four movies aren’t, and that’s due in part to the increased budget that director and star Patrick Wilson has to play with to pull off his vision.
It features the scariest scene of 2023 We all have certain things or situations that scare the hell out of us. For some, it’s bugs or rats; for others, it’s ghosts or ax murderers. For me, it’s being trapped in an enclosed space. There’s nothing more terrifying than being stuck in a small hole or crevice that I can’t get out of no matter what I do. Throw in an entity that’s out to get me and I turn into an apprehensive puddle of jelly within seconds.
The Red Door contains a scene like this early on as Wilson’s Josh lies down to get an MRI in a quiet hospital room. MRI machines are enormous and claustrophobic; there’s only just enough room for the single person that’s being inspected and scanned. That’s why it’s all the more unsettling to see something else in there with Josh, a barely visible and audible presence that gradually gets closer and louder.
Wilson adds to the tension by having the lights go out, leaving Josh in the dark, truly alone and vulnerable. What’s in there with him? And how can he possibly react to it when he can barely see or move? What happens next? Well, you’ll just have to watch for yourself.
Insidious: The Red Door is streaming on Netflix right now. It’s currently one of the most popular movies on the streaming service, and with good reason: it’s a good, old fashioned horror movie, and you won’t be disappointed if you watch it.
Editors' Recommendations 5 sci-fi movies on Netflix you need to watch in November 3 underrated sci-fi movies on Amazon Freevee you should watch in November 3 underrated movies on Peacock you need to watch in November This action war movie is popular on Netflix. Here’s why you should watch it One of 2023’s best-reviewed movies is now on Netflix. Here’s why you should watch it Entertainment Over four decades ago, Arne Cheyenne Johnson went on trial for killing his landlord, Alan Bono, and his lawyer put forth the idea that Johnson wasn't guilty because he was possessed at the time. That's why "The Devil Made Me Do It" case is so famous that it's been adapted numerous times in Hollywood, most recently in The Conjuring: The Devil Made Me Do It in 2021.
The new documentary, The Devil on Trial, has quickly become one of the most popular movies on Netflix because it revisits not only the trial of Johnson but also the events leading up to it including the apparent possession of a young boy, David Glatzel. It also offers a first-hand account of both incidents in a way that cuts through the Hollywood dramatizations and offers viewers conflicting perspectives on what really happened and why. If you want the full account, then these are three reasons you should watch The Devil on Trial on Netflix.
The survivors share their stories in their own words Entertainment Five Nights at Freddy's | Official Trailer 2 October is supposed to be the best time to watch a scary movie, but that doesn't necessarily mean it's always easy to find exactly what you're looking for. Sometimes, you check out the movies in theaters and then find yourself at a loss when it comes to sorting through your various subscriptions to find something similar.
Entertainment Bodies | Official Trailer | Netflix Just over week after it premiered, the new sci-fi series Bodies is among the most popular shows on Netflix. The series is based on the 2014 Bodies comic by writer Si Spencer and artists Dean Ormston, Tula Lotay, Meghan Hetrick, and Phil Winslade. But don't worry about needing to catch up on your reading. Everything you need to know is in the show itself.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
