Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix F1 Live Stream Stranger Things Season 5 Best New Movies Most Popular Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney+ UFC Live Stream Best Movies on Disney+ Home Entertainment Reviews Glass Onion review: a deviously intricate Knives Out sequel By A.A. Dowd Close Like the drawling Southern detective he has now placed at the center of two fabulously entertaining clockwork whodunits, Rian Johnson should not be underestimated. The writer, director, and blockbuster puzzle enthusiast has a gift for luring his audience onto ornately patterned rugs, then giving their edges a powerful yank.
Glass Onion at first seems like a more straightforward, less elegant act of Agatha Christie homage than its predecessor, the murder-mystery sleeper Knives Out.
 But to assume you’ve gotten ahead of it, or seen every nature of trick Johnson has concealed under his sleeve, is to fall into the same trap as the potential culprits who dare trifle with the great Benoit Blanc (a joyfully re-invested Daniel Craig).
Anyone annoyed by the topical culture-war trappings of Knives Out (all that background MAGA chatter and drawing-room conversation on immigration policy) may be irked anew by how Glass Onion situates itself rather explicitly at the onset of COVID, with an opening series of introductions heavy on face wear and video chats. Even Johnson, first-rate showman that he is, can’t make these reminders of the recent, dismal past very funny.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Thankfully, he wastes little time getting his fresh ensemble of suspects out of quarantine and onto an island in Greece that’s as extravagantly designed as the movie itself. Peaking with a glowing tower capped by a literal glass onion, the island could also double as a classic Bond villain lair.
 Craig may have hung up the tuxedo for good, but like Pierce Brosnan before him, he’s likely destined to keep jetting off to exotic locales under the shadow of that iconic role. Blanc, though, couldn’t be much further from Bond in general disposition. It’s a pleasure once more to see the star play quizzically befuddled — there are moments here where he almost strikes the famous French figure of Monsieur Hulot , bumbling through the automated absurdities of a state-of-the-art retreat — before those mental wheels start deviously spinning.
5 movies to watch if you like the Knives Out mystery films Glass Onion: A Knives Out Mystery’s ending explained Where to watch Knives Out The island is owned by one of our real-life Bond villains, the arrogant billionaire mogul. Miles Bron (Edward Norton), an Elon Musk type , has invited five quasi-famous lifelong companions to join him for a murder mystery game in his private paradise. The “disruptors,” as he calls his entourage, include a scandal-plagued model (Kate Hudson), a concerned chemist (Leslie Odom Jr.), a men’s rights YouTube personality (Dave Bautista), a savvy politician (Kathryn Hahn), and Bron’s embittered former business partner (Janelle Monáe). Blanc is surprised to find his name on the invite list — and so, incidentally, is Bron. Turns out someone else wanted the esteemed gumshoe present at this supposedly carefree gathering.
Knives Out proceeded at a giddy scramble, complicating the rooting interests of its investigation and redefining its rules every few minutes; that was all part of the movie’s high-wire fun.
Glass Onion takes its time a little more. Forgoing the crosscutting interrogation sequence that opened the previous movie — an ingenious device best not diminished through repetition — Johnson instead doles out the pertinent exposition gradually. There’s a lot to dole: backstory relationships, motives for a crime not yet committed, and a Hasbro box worth of important clues and items, among them an envelope, a napkin, a glass, a painting, a crossbow, and a Chekhovian handgun that naturally goes missing. All of this amusing in the dinner-party murder-mystery mold, but it’s hard to shake the feeling that Johnson is playing it straighter this time; it doesn’t help that his latest characters lack some of the comic zing of the Thrombey clan.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Keep the faith. The slightly sluggish pacing turns out to be a crucial element of Johnson’s sleight of hand. The big early twist of Knives Out — the way he seemed to solve the mystery hours ahead of schedule — is one he can’t repeat here, obviously. But he finds a way to revive the spirit of that brilliant subversion, as the movie doubles back on itself to replay scenes from fresh perspectives. It’s a kind of canny structural time travel, and it races Glass Onion into the grand fun of its back half when Johnson leans into his talent for upending expectations and nesting games within games. More so even than the previous Blanc investigation, this one seems designed to reward repeat viewings; full hindsight will uncover new layers to even the clunkier scenes.
If there’s an ideological framework to this franchise of smoke and mirrors, it’s a puckish distrust of the filthy rich. Here, Johnson’s class consciousness manifests as a pointed skewering of tech-era robber barons obsessed with “blowing up the world,” in a figurative sense that could too easily become a literal one. That’s just good, wholesome fun, dunking on the ego of the billionaire class. But Knives Out proved more affecting in how it foregrounded that element; it was the secret key to the resonance of the film, a brainy comic thriller that expressed its class politics through Ana de Armas ’s rather touching portrayal of essential decency in the face of greed and sham philanthropy.
Glass Onion ends up sacrificing a little of that stealth poignancy at the altar of its bigger, knottier, twistier sequel architecture. It’s more of a contraption.
Still, we could use contraptions this skillfully, cleverly devised. What Glass Onion does preserve is the essential old-new appeal of Knives Out.
 Johnson has once more polished the formula of this classic genre, delivering all the expected thrills of a mystery unraveled while touching on contemporary social concerns and gleefully circumventing the assumed course of a narrative.
He’s a rare breed of Hollywood hitmaker , a cerebral crowd-pleaser. How do you give audiences more of what they liked while still surprising them? Glass Onion is the answer. Only a sucker would bet against Johnson pulling it off again.
Glass Onion starts streaming on Netflix on December 2 and will open in theaters at an undisclosed time before that.
Our coverage of the Toronto International Film Festival continues all week.
For more of A.A. Dowd’s writing, please visit his Authory page.
Editors' Recommendations Like Mission: Impossible – Dead Reckoning? Then watch these action movies on Netflix Glass Onion cast take you behind the scenes of the latest Knives Out mystery Where to watch the Knives Out sequel, Glass Onion Glass Onion trailer unveils a new Knives Out murder mystery Glass Onion: A Knives Out Mystery will receive Thanksgiving theatrical release Toronto International Film Festival Entertainment In late 2019, writer and director Rian Johnson's Knives Out was an unexpected hit. There aren't a lot of comical murder mysteries burning up the box office the way that one did. That may be why Netflix pulled the trigger on two Knives Out sequels, the first of which will arrive later this year. Now, Netflix has unveiled the first trailer for Glass Onion: A Knives Out Mystery. Former James Bond star Daniel Craig is reprising his role as detective Benoit Blanc. And as the title implies, Blanc has a new mystery to solve.
Glass Onion: A Knives Out Mystery | Official Teaser Trailer | Netflix Entertainment The new year is only a month old, but Netflix wants to send an important message about its 2022 plans: It has no intention of giving up its status as the king of the streaming services. There will be 86 Netflix original movies released in 2022, which is 16 more than the 70 original flicks that Netflix released in 2021. In short, "every night is movie night." Netflix has released a promo video for its 2022 films that feature several A-list stars breaking character in the midst of their clips to extoll the virtues of Netflix's approach. There's even a first look at Knives Out 2, which is currently in production, with a return appearance by Daniel Craig's Benoit Blanc.
Entertainment November has been a great month for movies at Netflix, with the premiere of David Fincher's The Killer, and recent box office hits like Insidious: The Red Door and Spider-Man: Across the Spider-Verse. This week, the new additions include The Impossible, a 2012 survival thriller that has already landed on the list of the 10 most popular movies on Netflix. For younger viewers, Minions is also heating up the charts despite the pending departure of the other films in the franchise at the end of the month.
There's only one holiday weekend left in November, so what's the best way to stay on top of everything new on Netflix? Why, we are, of course. Our list of the best movies on Netflix right now is updated every Friday, even on holiday weekends, so you can easily find something for every movie lover in your life.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
