Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix F1 Live Stream Stranger Things Season 5 Best New Movies Most Popular Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney+ UFC Live Stream Best Movies on Disney+ Home Entertainment Guides Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Missing’s ending, explained By Jason Struss Close The sleeper hit movie of 2023, and soon to be one of the most popular movies on Netflix , doesn’t involve superheroes or possessed demons like in Evil Dead Rise ; instead, it focuses on a young teenager who uses all of the technology at her disposal to find a lost relative.
Missing is a sequel of sorts to 2018’s Searching , which told a story about a father (John Cho) who is desperate to find his missing daughter. It became a surprise critical and commercial hit and was praised for its unique way of telling the entire story through a computer screen.
What is Missing about? Missing’s mystery deepens Let the bodies hit the floor How does Missing end? While set in the same world, Missing tells a new story about a teenage girl (Storm Reid) who quickly realizes her mother has disappeared under very strange circumstances. Utilizing the power of social media and Google , she tries to track her down while also uncovering some mysteries about her past. If you are interested in having Missing ‘s ending explained, you’ve come to the right place! What is Missing about? Image used with permission by copyright holder The movie opens with archival video footage of 10-year-old June (Storm Reid) with her now-deceased father James. We learn that he died from a brain tumor shortly after the video was taken. It then transitions to the present when we meet a now 18-year-old June, who is planning a party at her home in Van Nuys, California after her mother, Grace (Nia Long), leaves for Colombia with her new boyfriend, Kevin Lin. Her mother insists that she be looked in on by next-door neighbor Heather, a lawyer who expresses some jealousy at Grace’s relationship with Kevin. She also implores her daughter to clear her voice message box, which is always full and never accessed by June.
The Hunger Games: The Ballad of Songbirds & Snakes’ ending, explained The Morning Show season 3 ending, explained The Walking Dead: Daryl Dixon ending, explained After days and nights of partying hard with her friends Veena and Austin, June has to pick her mother up at the airport. She never shows, which causes June to contact the authorities. Because she has no other family members and has no solid proof her mother is missing, they can’t do anything. June decides to investigate herself using an array of digital tools at her disposal: Google Maps (where she tries to track her mother’s location in Colombia), Facebook messages, internet search histories, etc. She also hires the services of Javi, a Colombian resident who does June’s requests for a small fee.
Missing’s mystery deepens Image used with permission by copyright holder It quickly becomes apparent to June that Kevin, her mother’s boyfriend, isn’t who he says he is. Hacking into his Gmail account , she discovers a number of aliases and, eventually, a criminal record consisting of fraud. Believing Kevin to have kidnapped her mother for her money, June has Javier look for clues as to their whereabouts in Colombia while she investigates.
She traces Kevin’s past movements to an unknown location in the Valley, where she talks to Jim (tagged as “Jimmy church guy” by June). He tells her Kevin’s been rehabilitated and is genuinely in love with Grace. June eventually accesses her mother’s online dating profile, where she discovers that her mother was already aware of Kevin’s past. She also hints at a secret from her past that she wants to share with Kevin in person.
The police inform June that they’ve received video of someone that a band of criminals seemingly kidnapping Kevin and Grace in Colombia. June quickly uncovers that this is a lie; in fact, her mother never left Los Angeles for Colombia. Kevin had hired a lookalike actress named Rachel Page to impersonate her mother. The case makes national headlines, Rachel confesses she didn’t know what Kevin was up to when she went with him to Colombia, and there’s speculation that Grace herself has something to do with her own disappearance when it’s revealed that she’s had multiple aliases as well.
Let the bodies hit the floor Image used with permission by copyright holder Believing her mother to be innocent, June’s suspicions fall on neighbor Heather. Using a handheld pocket watch camera, she sneaks into Heather’s office. After finding it ransacked, she stumbles upon Heather’s dead body. Later, June views live footage of a police raid in Colombia focusing on Kevin, who is shot and killed.
Seemingly at a dead end, June is about to give up but manages to access her mother’s e-mail, which has been protected by an unbreakable password that June couldn’t guess until now. She tracks down a threatening e-mail directed at Grace and a security camera that Grace bought and installed at an abandoned house. Viewing the camera footage, June realizes it’s her old home. Just then, “Jimmy church guy” calls and indicates he has some information about her mother. He is soon at June’s door and begs her to come in. She opens the door and discovers … How does Missing end? … it’s her dad, James! Wait, what? Yes, June’s deceased father never really died. He tells her Grace took her away from him and has been hiding under a different name all these years. While seemingly his intentions are good, they quickly turn out to be the opposite as Grace ran from him after being abused by him for years. She told June he died to spare her the pain of finding out her dad was a domestic abuser whose drug habit endangered all of them.
He quickly kidnaps June and takes her to their old home where Grace is being held. Mother and daughter are reunited, but they are soon threatened by James, who shoots Grace. James tried to capture June to leave, but a revived Grace stabs him in the neck with a shard of glass. James tries to call the hospital but dies.
The next scene shows that some time has passed. June is in college now, and she converses with her friends about a fictional true crime show based on what happened to her and Grace. Her mother texts to tell her that she loves her. June responds back that she loves her too.
Missing is now streaming on Netflix. For other Missing content, please read “ Like Missing? Then watch these 5 thrillers ” and why it’s one of “ 2023’s best thrillers that is streaming on Netflix.
” Editors' Recommendations Thanksgiving’s ending, explained The Marvels’ ending, explained Don’t miss these 6 fall 2023 movies that are flying under the radar The Fall of the House of Usher’s ending, explained Only Murders in the Building season 3 ending, explained Entertainment Warning: This article contains spoilers for The Creator (2023).
Early in The Creator, its hero, Joshua (John David Washington), is assigned by his military superiors to track down and kill the mysterious figure known as “Nimata,” the creator of a new AI weapon that's supposedly capable of ending the war between the anti-AI U.S. and the robotic and human civilians of New Asia. It’s during this mission that Joshua crosses paths with the weapon in question, an AI child named Alphie (Madeleine Yuna Voyles), who has the power to remotely shut down any technological devices in close proximity to her.
Entertainment Warning: This article contains spoilers for A Haunting in Venice (2023).
Are ghosts real? That question is at the center of one of the most anticipated movies of the season, A Haunting in Venice, Kenneth Branagh’s latest outing Hercule Poirot mystery. Loosely based on Agatha Christie’s Hallowe'en Party, the film spends most of its time at a Venetian palazzo one rain-soaked Halloween night. Summoned there by his friend and Christie-esque crime writer, Ariadne Oliver (Tina Fey), Branagh’s retired Poirot finds himself attending a seance run by the mischievous Joyce Reynolds (Everything Everywhere All at Once's Michelle Yeoh) at the behest of the palazzo’s owner, Rowena Drake (Kelly Reilly), a singer who has been mourning the tragic death of her daughter, Alicia (Rowan Robinson), for over a year.
Entertainment Warning: This article contains major spoilers for The Nun 2 (2023).
The Nun 2 begins four years after the events of its predecessor. When it picks back up with Sister Irene (Taissa Farmiga), she’s taken to living a peaceful life in a countryside convent. Her peace is disrupted by the return of her former, thought-to-be-vanquished demonic foe, Valak (Bonnie Aarons), whose recent killing spree through Western Europe has caught the attention of the Catholic Church.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
