Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Netflix Original Movies Best Comedies on Netflix Best Netflix Original Series Best Anime on Netflix Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Fantasy Movies on Netflix Home Entertainment Guides Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? What’s new on Netflix and what’s leaving in November 2023 By Blair Marnell Close November is shaping up to be a killer month on Netflix.
 And that’s not just because David Fincher’s The Killer is making its streaming premiere this month. Netflix is also premiering its new prestige miniseries, All the Light We Cannot See , as well as The Crown season 6, part 1, and the new anime series, Scott Pilgrim Takes Off.
 At this rate, there won’t be many new shows left for December! Everything new on Netflix in November Leaving Netflix in November It’s our job to help you stay on top of the latest additions to Netflix, so we’ve assembled this comprehensive rundown of everything that’s new on Netflix in November 2023, as well as everything that’s leaving at the end of the month. Our picks for the month are in bold.
If you’re looking for some additional guidance on what to watch, we also have lists of the best movies on Netflix and the best shows on Netflix.
 If Netflix isn’t your only streaming service, we also have helpful articles on the best movies on Amazon Prime and the best TV shows on Amazon Prime , as well as plenty of guides for Hulu , Disney+ , and HBO Max.
What’s new on Tubi in December 2023 The 50 best shows on Netflix in November 2023 6 best TV shows you need to watch in December Need more suggestions? What’s new on Hulu What’s new on Max What’s new on Amazon Prime What’s new on Disney+ Everything new on Netflix in November November 1 13 Going on 30 13 Hours: The Secret Soldiers of Benghazi 60 Days In Season 5 The Addams Family (1991) The Big Lebowski The Change-Up Desperado Downsizing Drag Me to Hell Hurricane Season Locked In Love in the Wild Season 1 Madea’s Family Reunion The Mummy (2017) Mysteries of the Faith Nuovo Olimpo Paul Blart: Mall Cop Paul Blart: Mall Cop 2 Pitch Perfect The Scorpion King Scott Pilgrim vs. the World Sherlock Gnomes Six Feet Under Seasons 1–5 Sixteen Candles The Social Network Ted 2 Till Murder Do Us Part: Soering vs. Haysom Victorious Season 3 Whiplash Wingwomen November 2 All the Light We Cannot See Cigarette Girl Higuita: The Way of the Scorpion Onimusha Unicorn Academy November 3 Blue Eye Samurai Daily Dose of Sunshine Erin & Aaron, Season 1 Ferry: The Series NYAD Selling Sunset Season 7 Sly The Tailor Season 3 Vacaciones de Verano November 4 The Amazing Race Seasons 17 and 31 Insidious: The Red Door Lopez vs. Lopez Season 1 November 7 Face Off Seasons 4–5 The Improv: 60 and Still Standing November 8 The Billionaire, the Butler, and the Boyfriend The Claus Family 3 Cyberbunker: The Criminal Underworld Escaping Twin Flames Robbie Williams November 9 Akuma Kun Temple of Film: 100 Years of the Egyptian Theatre November 10 At the Moment The Killer Team Ninja Warrior Season 2 November 11 Laguna Beach Season 3 November 14 Criminal Code How to Become a Mob Boss The Netflix Cup: Swing to Survive Suburræterna November 15 Feedback First Wives Club, Seasons 1–3 Matt Rife: Natural Selection Million Dollar Decorators, Season 1 November 16 Best. Christmas. Ever! The Crown Season 6, Part 1 Downton Abbey Harriet In Love and Deep Water Lone Survivor November 17 All-Time High Believer 2 CoComelon Lane The Dads The Queenstown Kings Rustin Sagrada Familia, Season 2 Scott Pilgrim Takes Off Stamped from the Beginning November 20 Shahs of Sunset, Seasons 1–2 November 21 Leo November 22 Crime Diaries: The Celebrity Stylist High on the Hog: How African American Cuisine Transformed America, Season 2 Squid Game: The Challenge November 23 Love Island USA Season 3 My Daemon My Little Pony: Make Your Mark, Chapter 6 November 24 A Nearly Normal Family DOI BOY I Don’t Expect Anyone to Believe Me Last Call for Istanbul My Demon Wedding Games November 27 Go Dog Go, Season 4 November 28 Comedy Royale Love Like a K-Drama Onmyoji Verified Stand-Up November 29 American Symphony Bad Surgeon: Love Under the Knife November 30 The Bad Guys: A Very Bad Holiday Family Switch Hard Days Obliterated School Spirits Season 1 Virgin River Season 5, Part 2 Leaving Netflix in November November 3 The Amazing Race (Seasons 5 and 7) November 6 Jerry Seinfeld: Comedian November 10 Laguna Beach (Seasons 1-2) November 15 Accepted Jeff Dunham: All Over the Map Loving November 22 Hard Kill Love Island USA (Season 1) November 29 Disappearance at Clifton Hill November 30 About Last Night Arrival Basketball Wives (Seasons 1-2) Dear John Fences Hook LEGO: Friends (Seasons 1-4) New in Town Peppermint Stuart Little Stuart Little 2 Superbad Surf’s Up The Punisher Up in the Air Editors' Recommendations The best movies on Amazon Prime Video (November 2023) The 50 best movies on Netflix right now (November 2023) The best feel-good movies on Netflix right now The best comedies on Netflix right now The best stand-up comedy on Netflix right now Netflix Streaming Services Entertainment Who's in the mood for an action film? Netflix has an impressive slate of action films that only improves with the addition of new films every month. New arrivals include Liam Neeson's Cold Pursuit, David Fincher's The Killer, and Adam Wingard's Godzilla vs. Kong.
This November, we curated a list of three action movies you need to watch on Netflix. Our action picks include one of the best war movies ever made, an underrated Clint Eastwood thriller, and Michael Bay at his finest.
Saving Private Ryan (1998) Entertainment You're going to see a lot of Christmas movies on Hulu through the end of the year. 'Tis the season for the Huludays, after all. While we'll go over your Christmas options at a later date, this month's selections of the best movies on Hulu feature a new original film, Quiz Lady, as well as A Haunting in Venice, which recently finished its theatrical run. The other prominent new additions are Jumanji: Welcome to the Jungle and the comedy biopic Driven.
Need help keeping up with everything new on Hulu? Every month, we go over the greatest films that Hulu has to offer while keeping track of what's coming and going. That's why our update of the best movies on Hulu is always current. We're here to help you plan your next movie night.
Entertainment Sci-fi films never go out of style. From Alien and Back to the Future to Dune and Blade Runner, sci-fi films continue to improve thanks to new technology. Many sci-fi films find a home on Netflix and wind up on the streamer's 10 most popular movies list. Films like Don't Look Up, The Adam Project, and Bird Box are 10 of the most popular English films on Netflix ever.
The Adam Project is one of our picks for sci-fi movies to watch in November. Other selections include the epic sequel to Godzilla: King of the Monsters, and a sci-fi thriller about a pilot's fight for survival against the dinosaurs.
Godzilla vs. Kong (2021) Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
