Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix F1 Live Stream Stranger Things Season 5 Best New Movies Most Popular Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney+ UFC Live Stream Best Movies on Disney+ Home Entertainment Reviews Spider-Man: Across the Spider-Verse review: an animated superhero extravaganza By Alex Welch Close Stunning animation throughout A cast of compelling characters Endless visual experimentation A slightly unsatisfying ending You’ve never seen a movie quite like Spider-Man: Across the Spider-Verse.
 Even its predecessor, 2018’s Spider-Man: Into the Spider-Verse , seems a bit quaint in comparison to the new film. It’s not Across the Spider-Verse ’s plot that makes it all that unique, either. In a time when multiversal tales are all the rage, the film’s story feels unavoidably similar at times to those told in recent titles like Doctor Strange in the Multiverse of Madness and Spider-Man: No Way Home.
 But none of the Marvel movies or TV shows that have come before it have been able to capture their viewers’ attention or ignite their imaginations quite like Spider-Man: Across the Spider-Verse does.
The film is an atomic, rainbow-colored blast of pure wonder. It’s a superhero blockbuster that experiments with the form of animation in such consistently awe-inspiring ways that it’s impossible not to be overwhelmed by the sheer scope of the artistry on display throughout its admittedly long 136-minute runtime. It’s a film that invites multiple rewatches not just because of the intricacies of its plot and the depth of its characters, but because of all of the little details and secrets featured at the very edges of every one of its immaculately drawn frames, which demand to be noticed and seen.
When is Spider-Man: Across the Spider-Verse streaming? Where to watch Spider-Man: Into the Spider-Verse 5 great multiverse movies to watch besides Spider-Man: Across the Spider-Verse Not since Into the Spider-Verse has a big-screen comic book adventure felt this interested in playing with the actual medium of cinema. To put that another way: It’s been a long time since a superhero movie has felt this alive, this vibrant, and this vital.
Sony Pictures Animation Like all great sequels, Spider-Man: Across the Spider-Verse builds on the tricks of its predecessor. The film takes the multi-perspective structure that Into the Spider-Verse toyed around with and fully adopts it. This time, viewers aren’t just invited to see the continuation of Miles Morales’ (Shameik Moore, The Get Down ) story, but also Gwen Stacy’s (Hailee Steinfeld, Hawkeye ). Both stories are, in typical Spider-Man fashion, shaded in the tragedy of their respective, personal losses. More than anything, though, what’s truly striking about Gwen and Miles’ stories in Across the Spider-Verse is just how lonely both are when the film picks back up with them.
As Gwen’s opening narration reveals, the loneliness that comes with her and Miles’ vigilante lives has only been amplified by their interactions with each other in Into the Spider-Verse.
 Now that Gwen and Miles know they’re not only the ones in the multiverse who know what it’s like to be a friendly neighborhood web-slinger, they’re both desperate to recapture that feeling. It’s that desperation that leads Gwen to so eagerly join up with Jessica Drew/Spider-Woman (Issa Rae, Insecure ) and Miguel O’Hara/Spider-Man 2099 (Oscar Isaac, Moon Knight ), a pair of commanding multiversal web-slingers, in Across the Spider-Verse ’s predictably action-packed, surprisingly melancholic prologue.
With the help of some technology provided by Miguel, Gwen inevitably finds her way back to Miles’ universe. Their flirtatious, lovelorn reunion is cut short, however, when a mission to capture and contain a bumbling but nonetheless dangerous villain known as The Spot (Jason Schwartzman, Asteroid City ) goes awry. When Miles consequently finds himself on a multiversal journey with Gwen to stop The Spot, he not only meets more alternate versions of Spider-Man than he ever knew existed but also ends up coming to philosophical and physical blows with Isaac’s Miguel. As visually exciting as it is to see different versions of Spider-Man combat each other on-screen, too, Across the Spider-Verse never loses sight of its characters and their journeys.
Sony Pictures Animation Miles’ conflict with Miguel and his sacred Spider Society opens the door for Across the Spider-Verse ’s script, which was penned by Phil Lord, Chris Miller, and Dave Callaham, to explore complex emotional ideas.
Across the Spider-Verse is fittingly compelled by the notion of one’s personal sense of responsibility, and not just to the world at large, but also to those who are closest to us. These themes, combined with the film’s focus on Miles and Gwen’s existing familial relationships, allow Across the Spider-Verse to slowly but surely build a shockingly rich tapestry of emotions within its story.
The expansiveness of its story is visually reflected throughout the film, which sees Joaquim Dos Santos, Kemp Powers, and Justin K. Thompson taking over for Into the Spider-Verse directors Bob Persichetti, Peter Ramsey, and Rodney Rothman. Over the course of its runtime, Across the Spider-Verse bounces between so many different art styles and forms of animation that the film might feel visually messy were it not for the fact that every world and character introduced in it looks and feels fully imagined. This writer was particularly enamored with the watercolor-esque, pastel-heavy way in which Gwen’s home universe is brought to life. Not only is Gwen herself drawn in different shades of green, blue, and pink every time she travels home in the film, but the colors of the environments around her constantly bleed together.
The film’s various forms of animation help lift up even its most tangential of detours. One trip to Mumbattan, the home of Pavitr Prabhakar/Spider-Man India (Karan Soni), goes on a bit too long and feels like one of Across the Spider-Verse ’s least necessary sequences, but it’s such a joy to watch that its superfluousness doesn’t matter all that much. The vibrancy of Mumbattan, combined with the humor that’s immediately established between Pavitr, Gwen, and Miles, makes it easy to get caught up in the characters’ antics — even when there are moments throughout the sequence when Across the Spider-Verse ’s plot becomes a bit too convoluted for its own good.
Sony Pictures Animation As strange as the comparison may initially seem, the film that Across the Spider-Verse most strongly calls to mind is Denis Villeneuve’s Dune.
 Like that sci-fi epic, Across the Spider-Verse is an immaculately built construction, one that’s overflowing with more vividly-realized ideas, characters, and images than it knows what to do with. Unfortunately, like Dune , Across the Spider-Verse also tells just half of its story. The film pointedly ends with the promise that its plot will be wrapped up in Spider-Man: Beyond the Spider-Verse , which is already slated to hit theaters next March.
The good news is that Across the Spider-Verse is such a lovingly made, astonishingly effective sensorial experience that its power isn’t diminished much by the fact that it’s ultimately an appetizer. It’s a superhero adventure film that cares just as much about its characters and their struggles as it does the visual possibilities of its medium. By the time it’s come to an end, the film has managed to do the impossible: breathe new life into a genre that had begun to feel increasingly lifeless as of late. Odds are, you’ll likely leave Across the Spider-Verse feeling a little rejuvenated yourself.
For the first time in a long time, Hollywood has delivered a superhero movie that’ll actually leave you hungry for more.
Spider-Man: Across the Spider-Verse is now playing in theaters. For more related content, be sure to check out Across the Spider-Verse’s ending explained , is there a post-credits scene in Across the Spider-Verse , and all the Easter eggs in Across the Spider-Verse.
Editors' Recommendations One of 2023’s best-reviewed movies is now on Netflix. Here’s why you should watch it 10 best movie superhero costumes, ranked 10 best Spider-Man stories ever, ranked Is there going to be a fourth Spider-Verse movie? 7 best Spider-Man characters who’ve never been on the big screen Marvel Product Reviews Entertainment Animated movies have been a staple of moviemaking since its inception, with filmmakers constantly finding inventive ways to update the medium. From Disney's Toy Story to the newly released Spider-Man: Across the Spider-Verse, animation has produced countless movie classics. While it's entirely true that many — if not most — animated movies are hits among younger audiences, numerous films have proven over the years that the limits of animation don't stop at childhood entertainment.
Spider-Man: Across the Spider-Verse recently proved that those limits are almost boundless, showcasing how the art form can include anything from strokes of watercolor to comic book pop. Although the well-liked and universally praised sequel didn't make the cut in Rotten Tomatoes' top 10 animated films of all time, the film still sits at an impressive 96% (its predecessor, Spider-Man: Into the Spider-Verse, has a 97% rating). According to the online review aggregator Rotten Tomatoes, these 10 films proved that they are the best of the best in animation.
10. Finding Nemo (99% rating) Entertainment There's nothing quite like the unbreakable, youthful zeal exuding from Marvel's many iterations of the web-slinging hero, Spider-Man, that attracts audiences far and wide. Ever since Sony began producing big-budget Spider-Man movies over two decades ago, the quippy, yet charming wall-crawler has entertained countless audiences and raked in mountains of cash doing it. But in the modern age of superheroes, the tried and true mainstays of the past have evolved. Endless variations of Peter Parker are no longer the standard. Fresh, new characters to don the tights and web cartridges like Gwen Stacy and Miles Morales have entered the spotlight. And not only do they web-sling and kick butt like the rest of them, but their personal histories and stories are also endearing and often relatable.
Of course, if you aren't well-versed in comic books, you should know that Miles Morales has actually been around since 2011. The biracial Brooklyn teen first appeared in issue No. 4 of Ultimate Fallout. Miles isn't just another alliterative name and face to affix to a facsimile hero of what came before. He also has additional abilities including camouflaging himself against any surface and focused energy attacks referred to as "venom blasts." But Miles is far from the only Spider-Man in the latest film. With the multitude of Spider-people populating the latest animated adventure, there's plenty of comic book lore that informed the basis of Spider-Man: Across the Spider-Verse. So, if you're looking to dive beyond the film further into the world of Miles, Gwen, or even the Spider-Man of 2099, Miguel O'Hara, look no further than our guide below to some must-read adventures.
1. Ultimate Spider-Man and Ultimate Comics: Spider-Man Entertainment Spider-Man: Across the Spider-Verse is blowing away audiences worldwide with its many dimension-hopping, joke-slinging, and heart-filled moments. It's no surprise that this movie has already broken multiple box office records, and it's safe to say that this sequel has surpassed its predecessor in every conceivable way.
Just about every scene in this film is incredible, but atop this mountain of animated gold, these five moments shine the brightest. Note: the following article contains major spoilers from the movie.
The opening fight scene Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
