Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Netflix Original Movies Best Comedies on Netflix Best Netflix Original Series Best Anime on Netflix Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Fantasy Movies on Netflix Home Entertainment Reviews The Mother review: a ridiculous thriller in every way By Alex Welch Close Jennifer Lopez's charismatic, likable lead performance A memorable opening prologue Several illegible action sequences Clunky dialogue throughout A second half that falls flat A lot of noise will likely be made online about Jennifer Lopez’s role in her new Netflix thriller, The Mother — namely, how ill-suited she seems for it. The film, which comes from Whale Rider and The Zookeeper’s Wife director Niki Caro, asks Lopez to portray a highly skilled, military-trained assassin who, in addition to routinely shooting bad guys in the head, capably lives and hunts on her own off the grid in the middle of the Alaskan wilderness. Despite her character’s living conditions, Lopez, naturally, always looks runway ready in The Mother.
It doesn’t seem to fair hold this particular criticism against either Lopez or The Mother , though. Casting beautiful movie stars in roles that they’re incapable of believably playing is, after all, an age-old Hollywood tradition. Lopez is, to her credit, quite good in the film, too. Her performance is, in fact, one of the strongest aspects of The Mother , which suffers far more from poor editing, incompetent action filmmaking, and clunky writing than it does from Lopez’s casting as its lead.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Coming three years after Caro’s previous feature effort, Disney’s abominable live-action remake of Mulan , The Mother is another ambitious action film that its director never quite manages to wrap her hands around. That’s disappointing for a number of reasons, but none more so than the fact that the film’s prologue sets it up to be a far more entertaining and effective thriller than it turns out to be. Set in an anonymous FBI safehouse, The Mother ’s opening minutes follow Lopez’s unnamed protagonist as she tries desperately to survive an ambush from Adrian Lovell (Joseph Fiennes), a British arms dealer she’s recently betrayed.
Don’t miss these 6 fall 2023 movies that are flying under the radar 5 Netflix action movies like Heart of Stone 5 underrated movies you should check out in July 2023 Unfolding over the course of 10 tense minutes, The Mother ’s prologue is shocking in both its brusqueness and brutality. One decisive slash from Lovell’s knife ultimately carries more weight than anything else in the film, but the violent beat in question does a lot to send The Mother hurtling into its first act with considerable momentum. In the 100 minutes that follow, viewers learn more about Lovell’s relationship with Lopez’s assassin, as well as the powerful trafficker, Hector Álvarez (a tragically underused Gael García Bernal), who they once built a criminal empire with. Most of these details are revealed during an awkwardly placed exposition dump that comes near The Mother ’s midpoint.
Before long, Lopez’s unnamed mother is forced out of her self-imposed exile when she discovers that Lovell and Álvarez have turned their attention to Zoe (Lucy Paez), the daughter that her dangerous life forced her to put up for adoption years prior. With its heroine intent on saving her daughter’s life no matter the cost, the film slowly but surely evolves into a thriller that’s part bare-knuckled action flick and part mother-daughter drama. Despite the potential a combination like that contains, though, The Mother ’s clunky second and third acts fail to make any of their moments of action or drama genuinely sing.
Image used with permission by copyright holder As was the case in her reinterpretation of Disney’s Mulan , Caro’s approach to action filmmaking leaves a lot to be desired in The Mother.
 Several of the film’s shootouts land with a real punch, but the same can’t be said for any of its chases or hand-to-hand fights, nearly all of which are comprised of fast cuts that make it impossible to decipher what’s actually happening on-screen. Like many directors before her, Caro frequently makes the mistake in The Mother of believing that fast-cutting is all that’s needed to raise viewers’ pulses — geography and visual legibility be damned.
While Lopez does her best to sell her character’s physical prowess, she’s let down by Caro’s occasionally incomprehensible direction. The moments when a stunt double was likely used to stand in for Lopez often feel painfully obvious as well, largely because they’re the only times in The Mother when the actress’ character actually bothers to put on a helmet. These flaws, altogether, hinder action sequences that should feel far more engaging than they do.
Opposite Lopez, The Mother features everyone from Fiennes and Omari Hardwick to Edie Falco, who makes a brief appearance early on as a no-nonsense FBI agent that never shows up in the film again. Outside of Lopez, though, the film doesn’t give many of its performers much to do. The only member of the thriller’s supporting cast who manages to make somewhat of an impression is Paul Raci, whose clear-eyed screen persona makes him the perfect choice to play Jons, a close confidant of Lopez’s on-the-run assassin.
Image used with permission by copyright holder As the daughter of the film’s eponymous hero, Lucy Paez does her best to bring real sensitivity and innocence to her performance as Zoe. The actress’ efforts are inevitably undercut by the film’s disappointing characterization of Zoe, though, who actively causes more trouble than is believable throughout The Mother ’s second half. Once they’ve finally been reunited, the moments of bonding and connection that Zoe and her mother share are unevenly executed as well.
A banter-filled dinner conversation between the duo ranks as one of The Mother ’s best scenes, but the arguments that are supposed to serve as the foundation of their long-awaited relationship fall utterly flat. The ineffectiveness of these moments, combined with a selection of terrible needle drops, drag down The Mother ‘s second half long before the film even gets to its lackluster, illogical climactic set piece. What you’re left with at the end of all of these missteps is an action movie that takes a lot of shots, only a few of which actually hit their target.
The Mother is now streaming on Netflix.
Editors' Recommendations The best thrillers on Netflix right now This 2017 Tom Cruise thriller is the most popular movie on Netflix. Here’s why you should watch it 5 kids and family movies on Netflix that are perfect to watch in the summer This 2013 comedy is one of Netflix’s most popular movies. Here’s why you should watch it Netflix is now streaming one of 2023’s best thrillers. Here’s why you should watch it Netflix Product Reviews Streaming Services Entertainment Every Mother's Day, forgetful children around the world make a mad dash to the store to find the perfect present for mom. This year, will it be chocolate? Candy? Flowers? A basket of tastefully arranged fruit that really signals your desperation? Why not give the gift of a good movie? From an Oscar-winning drama starring three acting legends to a sci-fi classic from the 1980s, these movies are sure to appeal to just about every mother and child out there.
Steel Magnolias (1989) Entertainment Jennifer Lopez (Shotgun Wedding) is a killer and a mother in Netflix's upcoming action film, The Mother. In the new trailer, Lopez comes out of hiding to rescue the daughter she so desperately wanted to protect.
Lopez stars as the titular Mother, a deadly assassin who left her previous life to ensure the safety of her 12-year-old daughter Zoe (Silencio's Lucy Paez). Years prior, the Mother cut a deal with the FBI to disappear into the Alaskan wilderness to hide from the two dangerous assailants. However, Zoe is eventually kidnapped years later, forcing the Mother back into action. Unfortunately for the kidnappers, the Mother is a highly-trained professional who shows no mercy to those that hurt her daughter. She eventually reunites with Zoe, but now, she must train her daughter to evade their captors and stay alive.
Entertainment After all these years, Netflix continues to be the premier destination for streaming content. With recent hit shows like Wednesday, You, and Shadow and Bone, plus blockbuster movies like The Gray Man and the Oscar-winning All Quiet on the Western Front, Netflix still dominates the streaming landscape like no other.
That domination is likely to continue with Netflix's April 2023 programming schedule, which includes the debut of the Steven Yeun/Ali Wong original series Beef, the return of the sci-fi comic book adaptation Sweet Tooth, and the arrival of Better Call Saul's sixth and final season. There's a lot for everyone, so we've highlighted our selections in bold below.
April 1 28 Days Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
