Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Netflix Original Movies Best Comedies on Netflix Best Netflix Original Series Best Anime on Netflix Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Fantasy Movies on Netflix Home Entertainment Guides Clint Eastwood’s The Mule is one of Netflix’s most popular movies. Here’s why you should watch it By Blair Marnell Close Did you know that Clint Eastwood’s The Mule opened on the same day as Spider-Man: Into the Spider-Verse on December 14, 2018. So it’s fitting that The Mule is gaining a new audience on Netflix at the same time that Into the Spider-Verse ‘s sequel, Spider-Man: Across the Spider-Verse , is on its way to becoming the top hit of the summer of 2023.
Clint Eastwood is an American icon It’s based on a riveting true story Bradley Cooper and the rest of the supporting cast are great You can go to a movie theater if you want to see Spider-Man , but we’re here to tell you why you should stay home and watch The Mule on Netflix as it rises up the streamer’s top 10 movie list. And the main reason why you should watch it is none other than Eastwood himself.
Clint Eastwood is an American icon Image used with permission by copyright holder At the time of this post, The Mule is the second-most recent performance in Clint Eastwood’s seven-decade career in Hollywood, and he brings a very real sense of wariness to his character, Earl Stone. It’s hard not to see the parallels between Eastwood and Earl, as both men have worked into their twilight years, and it seems like they can’t bring themselves to stop. The key difference between them is that Earl has alienated his family in his pursuit of success as a horticulturalist, only to fall upon hard times and becoming at risk of losing both his business and his relationship with his family.
5 best death game movies you should watch right now The 10 most popular movies on Netflix right now 5 sci-fi movies on Netflix you need to watch in November Earl’s decision to become a drug mule solves some of his financial problems, but it creates far bigger issues when he realizes just how dangerous his new employers are. Eastwood brings a great deal of pathos to the role when Earl finds himself in the crosshairs of the DEA and he is forced to contend with how far he has fallen.
One of the reasons why Eastwood is so revered is that he is also an incredible director, and The Mule demonstrates that his skills as a filmmaker haven’t diminished with time.
It’s based on a riveting true story Image used with permission by copyright holder The Mule takes its cues from the true story of Leo Sharp, as told by writer Sam Dolnick in a New York Times article titled The Sinaloa Cartel’s 90-Year-Old Drug Mule.
 The film isn’t an exact retelling of Sharp’s story, but aspects of his personal life clearly influence Earl’s portrayal in the film. Both Sharp and Earl are war veterans, and both men found some small level of fame as horticulturists.
Earl and Sharp are also ultimately defined by their choice to become drug mules without fully weighing the consequences of their decisions. This adds some tragic overtones as well, as neither man can escape the consequences of their choices, even though the audience feels empathy for Earl’s plight.
Bradley Cooper and the rest of the supporting cast are great Image used with permission by copyright holder While Eastwood’s name is at the top of the credits, Bradley Cooper is essentially the second lead of the film through his role as DEA agent Colin Bates. Eastwood previously directed Cooper in American Sniper , and their shared history may be why they play off of each other so well in their brief scenes together in this film.
Eastwood also lined up a very impressive supporting cast including Laurence Fishburne as Warren Lewis, Michael Peña as Trevino, Dianne Wiest as Mary Stone, Ignacio Serricchio as Julio Gutierrez, Andy García as Latón, and Taissa Farmiga as Ginny. Eastwood even cast his own daughter, Alison Eastwood, as Iris, Earl’s adult daughter, who has a noticeably tense relationship with her father. Alison Eastwood is an accomplished actress and filmmaker in her own right, and this isn’t the first time that she has teamed up with her famous father.
The Mule is now streaming on Netflix.
Editors' Recommendations 3 movies and TV shows like the hit Max series Julia you should watch right now The 10 most popular TV shows on Netflix right now 3 action movies on Netflix you need to watch in November 5 movies like Netflix’s The Killer you should watch right now 3 underrated shows on Netflix you need to watch in November Netflix Streaming Services Entertainment In case you hadn't heard, there's a new Marvel movie out this week. But if you haven't gotten around to getting tickets for The Marvels yet, don't worry, there should be plenty of available seats. Perhaps the lack of anticipation is a branding problem, since calling it The Marvels distracts from the fact that it's a sequel to Captain Marvel. And if you haven't been paying attention to the Marvel Studios original shows on Disney+, then you may be a bit lost about the two new heroines, Ms. Marvel/Kamala Khan (Iman Vellani) and Monica Rambeau (Teyonah Parris), who are teaming up with Brie Larson's Captain Marvel/Carol Danvers.
The good news is that Disney+ is the streaming home for all of the MCU movies and shows that you need to watch before The Marvels. And in the interest of making things as easy to follow as possible, the shows and films are presented below in chronological order rather than by their release dates.
Captain Marvel (2019) Entertainment It's not revelatory to say that the horror genre is currently undergoing a renaissance. In 2023 alone, there have been instant cult classics like Skinamarink and Cobweb, big hits like M3GAN and Scream VI, and memorable foreign entries like When Evil Lurks that have all contributed to the increased popularity of the genre. Hell, even misfires like The Last Voyage of the Demeter are more interesting than usual, and showcase an ambition and creativity that was largely lacking in horror movies from a decade ago.
INSIDIOUS: THE RED DOOR – Official Trailer (HD) Entertainment Bodies | Official Trailer | Netflix Following its debut in October, Bodies has proven to be one of the most popular shows on Netflix. Unfortunately, DC Comics failed to capitalize on this in time, as the original comic by writer Si Spencer and artists Dean Ormston, Tula Lotay, Meghan Hetrick, and Phil Winslade is out of print. Regardless, there are other DC Comics, and at least one indie title, that would make terrific TV shows. They also have the benefit of long publishing runs and established fandoms.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
