Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Netflix Original Movies Best Comedies on Netflix Best Netflix Original Series Best Anime on Netflix Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Fantasy Movies on Netflix Home Entertainment Guides Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Netflix has a popular new thriller, Nowhere. Here’s why you should watch it By Blair Marnell Close Nowhere , a new Netflix original film from Spain, has unexpectedly become a breakout hit and reached the upper tier of the most popular movies on Netflix.
 That’s no small feat considering that this movie didn’t get a lot of promotion, and that the lead actress, Anna Castillo, isn’t well-known outside of her native country. And yet, Nowhere is currently higher on Netflix’s movie chart than established hits like The Amazing Spider-Man 2.
Anna Castillo carries the film on her shoulders The production design is impressive It’s a tale of survival Albert Pintó directed the film from a script by Ernest Riera, Miguel Ruz, Indiana Lista, Seanne Winslow, and Teresa Rosendoy. Castillo stars as Mia, a woman who is attempting to escape a deadly regime in Spain alongside her husband, Nico (Tamar Novas). When the pair are separated before soldiers massacre the other refugees, Mia finds herself alone in a cargo container that is slowly sinking into the ocean. And if she doesn’t find a way to escape, then both Mia and her unborn child will die.
Now that you’ve heard the setup, it’s time to share three reasons why you should watch Nowhere on Netflix.
The best new shows to stream on Netflix, Hulu, Max (HBO), and more 3 TV shows on Tubi you should watch in November The 10 most popular movies on Netflix right now Anna Castillo carries the film on her shoulders Netflix The vast majority of Nowhere is a one-woman showcase. Once Mia is in the cargo container, Castillo is largely on her own. It can’t be easy to carry an entire movie on one performance, but Castillo pulls it off with every trick in her actor’s book. Castillo’s facial expressions, her body language, and every aspect of her being comes into play here as she conveys Mia’s desperation and determination to survive. It’s not entirely unlike Tom Hanks’ performance in Cast Away.
 Except Mia doesn’t have a volleyball to talk to. She just has herself and her child.
Nowhere also has a sense of claustrophobia as the situation continues to devolve for Mia and her daughter. But by that point, it’s impossible to not be rooting for Mia to find a way through this crisis. Thanks to Castillo, we’re rooting for her the entire time.
The production design is impressive Netflix It’s more than likely that Nowhere was filmed on a very limited budget, especially since most of the film takes place in the shipping container. This works to the movie’s advantage, because the production team went through the effort to make the film’s lone set piece into a convincing recreation of the real thing. Even when the water rises, it doesn’t shatter the illusion that what is both Mia’s sanctuary and her prison is real. Every movie requires a certain amount of suspended disbelief, and it’s a lot easier to do that when the environment doesn’t look like a cheap set.
It’s a tale of survival Netflix Everyone should know this by now, but most people don’t watch movies to see characters suffer and die. We watch films because we want to see people live and overcome the obstacles that are in front of them. Suffering is a byproduct of that experience, but it can also be uplifting when the main character finds a way to go on. That’s what Mia has to do for the entire film. She never has an easy path, and the setbacks that she experiences are enough to break anyone.
Regardless, Mia doesn’t stop fighting to live, both for her sake, and for the sake of her unborn daughter. That’s why this is a tale of survival, rather than an unrelenting tragedy. In short, there’s always hope, even in Mia’s darkest moments.
Watch Nowhere on Netflix.
Editors' Recommendations 3 movies and TV shows like the hit Max series Julia you should watch right now 5 best death game movies you should watch right now The 10 most popular TV shows on Netflix right now 6 best TV shows you need to watch in December 3 PBS shows you should watch in November Netflix Streaming Services Entertainment Netflix is entering the world of live sports with The Netflix Cup, which combines F1 and the PGA Tour for a new and innovative golf event. Four drivers from Netflix's Formula 1: Drive to Survive will join forces with four golfers from Netflix's Full Swing in a golf competition at the Wynn Golf Club in Las Vegas, Nevada. The event kicks off an important week in Vegas, which will host the first-ever Formula 1 Heineken Silver Las Vegas Grand Prix on November 18, 2023.
Four pairs – one F1 driver and one PGA Tour golfer – will participate in The Netflix Cup. There will be two eight-hole matches. The winners of Match 1 and Match 2 will compete in the final playoff for a chance to win the inaugural Netflix Cup. Which team will win the championship? Find out how to watch The Netflix Cup below.
How to watch The Netflix Cup on Netflix The Netflix Cup | Netflix's First Live Sporting Event | Official Teaser | Netflix Entertainment Who's in the mood for an action film? Netflix has an impressive slate of action films that only improves with the addition of new films every month. New arrivals include Liam Neeson's Cold Pursuit, David Fincher's The Killer, and Adam Wingard's Godzilla vs. Kong.
This November, we curated a list of three action movies you need to watch on Netflix. Our action picks include one of the best war movies ever made, an underrated Clint Eastwood thriller, and Michael Bay at his finest.
Saving Private Ryan (1998) Entertainment Comedy is not the box office force that it once was, and a lot of comedies now skip theaters entirely before going direct to streaming. That's unfortunate because laughing in a crowded theater during a comedy can be a cathartic experience. And as far as we're concerned, the genre's best days are still in front of it because some of the best comedies from the last half-decade more than hold their own against classics from the '80s, '90s, and the 21st century.
When compiling this list of the five great comedies from the past five years, we stuck with a strict release window between 2018 and 2023 for every film from either theatrical or streaming. Surprisingly, none of the movies from 2020 or 2021 made the cut for us. But after giving each movie due consideration, we feel that these five films will be the ones that withstand the test of time.
No Hard Feelings (2023) Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
