Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Netflix Original Movies Best Comedies on Netflix Best Netflix Original Series Best Anime on Netflix Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Fantasy Movies on Netflix Home Entertainment Guides The Wolf of Wall Street is popular on Netflix right now. Here’s why you should watch it (again) By Blair Marnell Close There are so many weird, strange, and even obscure films that find their way to the top of the most popular movies on Netflix that it’s refreshing to see a terrific film like The Wolf of Wall Street march up the charts. While we could give you several reasons why this is the single best movie to watch in September, we’re going to narrow it down to three reasons to watch The Wolf of Wall Street on Netflix.
Margot Robbie lights up the screen in her breakout role Leonardo DiCaprio has an Oscar-worthy performance It’s a different kind of crime epic This film is also a timely choice because director Martin Scorsese and his frequent collaborator Leonardo DiCaprio are reteaming soon for The Killers of the Flower Moon later this year. Scorsese and DiCaprio have made some great films together over the past two decades, but we believe that The Wolf of Wall Street is a superior choice because it breaks the mold from Scorsese’s previous movies while also giving DiCaprio a chance to play a very different kind of leading man. This flick also happens to have the star-marking turn for the actress who headlined the highest-grossing movie of 2023: Margot Robbie. So sit back and relax as we share our three reasons to watch The Wolf of Wall Street on Netflix this month.
Margot Robbie lights up the screen in her breakout role Paramount A decade before she ruled the summer box office in Barbie , Margot Robbie was already a working actress in Hollywood in search of the role that would make her a star. Robbie found what she was looking for in The Wolf of Wall Street , and she hasn’t looked back since. In retrospect, it seems obvious that Robbie would become a box office draw in her own right. Robbie is absolutely riveting every time she’s on screen in this film, and she more than held her own with DiCaprio while playing Jordan Belfort’s mistress and his second wife, Naomi Lapaglia.
3 Netflix comedies like Bill Burr’s Old Dads you should watch right now The Devil on Trial might be Netflix’s most terrifying true crime movie. Here’s why you should watch it Creature is Netflix’s most underrated horror series right now. Here’s why you should watch it The Wolf of Wall Street turned out to be the perfect showcase for Robbie, as playing Naomi allowed her to be funny, seductive, and dramatic in later scenes when Naomi’s relationship with Belfort finally reaches its inevitable conclusion. After witnessing her performance in this film, directors and casting agents have kept Robbie swimming in prominent roles ever since, including her turn as the first-ever live-action Harley Quinn on the big screen in two Suicide Squad films and Birds of Prey.
 Robbie can be real and down to earth or larger than life, and she was able to show off both aspects of her screen persona in this flick.
Leonardo DiCaprio has an Oscar-worthy performance Paramount In the past 18 years, Leonardo DiCaprio has been Oscar-nominated for Best Actor five times, but he only won once for The Revenant.
 His third Oscar nomination in that period was for The Wolf of Wall Street , and we contend that this was the performance that should have gotten the award. DiCaprio has played morally questionable characters before and after this film, but none of them could hold a candle to the reprehensible Jordan Belfort. The real-life Belfort’s white-collar crimes should have made him a social pariah, or at least resulted in decades in prison. And yet somehow, through his performance alone, DiCaprio completely captures the audience’s attention and perhaps even wins over their loyalty.
Thanks to DiCaprio, The Wolf of Wall Street gets away with never toning down Belfort’s edges. There’s no question that DiCaprio’s portrayal of Belfort shows off his talent for selling, as well as his staggering degree of amorality and sleaze. We want to hate Belfort for everything that he does in the film, and yet it’s almost impossible to dislike DiCaprio in this role. He plays it to perfection.
It’s a different kind of crime epic Paramount In Oliver Stone’s Wall Street , Michael Douglas’ Gordon Gekko famously says, “Greed, for lack of a better word, is good.” Almost all of Belfort’s quotes from The Wolf of Wall Street are too profane to repeat on this site. But the overall theme of the film is essentially, “Greed isn’t good, it’s great!” Scorsese’s previous crime epics Goodfellas and Casino celebrated criminal lifestyles, but those stories didn’t shy away from also showing the harsh consequences of choosing that path. By contrast, The Wolf of Wall Street lets Belfort get off with a proverbial slap on the wrist and only a short stint in prison before he’s back out on the streets with a new way to make money.
If there’s a judgment to be made about Belfort’s character, Scorsese leaves that for the audience to decide. But he also allows the viewers to vicariously celebrate the debauched lifestyle of Belfort and his cohorts as they snort their way through a fortune in drugs, alcohol, and women. The result is a film that embraces a darker sense of humor than any of Scorsese’s previous flicks. And it really is quite hilarious at times. This makes it unique among Scorsese’s films, and a genuine classic in its own right.
Watch The Wolf of Wall Street on Netflix.
Editors' Recommendations This action war movie is popular on Netflix. Here’s why you should watch it One of 2023’s best-reviewed movies is now on Netflix. Here’s why you should watch it Bodies is one of Netflix’s most popular shows right now. Here’s why you should watch it The Vigil is the scariest movie on Hulu right now. Here’s why you should watch it DiCaprio vs. De Niro: Who is the better Martin Scorsese collaborator? Netflix Streaming Services Entertainment It's the Halloween season, and fans are looking for the best horror movies on Netflix. While there are some great horror flicks on Netflix, like Get Out, we want to narrow things down to the scariest movie on Netflix. Our pick is a little known film called His House, from first-time director Remi Weekes.
Sope Dirisu and Wunmi Mosaku star as a married couple, Bol and Rial, who have escaped the war in their native Sudan to find refuge in the U.K. Unfortunately, the couple's new lives aren't all they hoped for, and something evil has followed them into their home. It's a haunting experience that feels like a breath of fresh air for the genre. It's not a typical jump-scare horror movie, and some of its horrors are all too real.
Entertainment It's Taylor Swift's world, we're just living in it. This weekend, Taylor Swift: The Eras Tour is poised for a superhero-worthy box-office performance that will put all other concert movies to shame. Swift is at the peak of her popularity and is one of the few artists who could pull this off in the modern era. But even Swift had to start from scratch, as seen in Netflix's 2020 documentary, Taylor Swift: Miss Americana.
Miss Americana was very popular at the time of its release, in part because it offered fans a glimpse at Swift's real persona in a way that they had never seen her before. Prior to that, Swift had withheld many of the details about her personal life and simply focused on her music and performances. In retrospect, Miss Americana may have helped Swift reach even greater heights simply by letting people into her personal orbit through watching the film. So whether you're a new Swiftie or a veteran fan who wants to revisit this film, here are three reasons why you should watch Taylor Swift: Miss Americana.
It celebrates Taylor Swift's musical journey Entertainment October tends to be the best time of the year to revisit horror movies, and Netflix is no exception. This month, the streamer has added director Tate Taylor's 2019 horror flick, Ma, which has already become one of the top films on the most popular movies on Netflix.
Ma is not a typical horror story, and the lead character, played by Octavia Spencer, is not some random slasher villain. There's a method to Ma's madness, and it makes the film one of the most unique horror movies in years. But if you need more convincing, here are three reasons why you should watch Ma on Netflix.
Octavia Spencer's terrifying performance Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
