Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix F1 Live Stream Stranger Things Season 5 Best New Movies Most Popular Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney+ UFC Live Stream Best Movies on Disney+ Home Entertainment Features Who should be the next Wonder Woman? By David Caballero Close The DC Universe is trying to stay afloat amid an increasingly competitive entertainment landscape. The franchise’s current installment, the long-delayed and controversial The Flash , premiered on June 16 to indifferent fan reaction and mediocre box office. New DC honcho James Gunn is deep in preproduction on his much-anticipated Superman movie , while Flash director Andy Muschietti will seemingly direct the upcoming Batman movie The Brave and the Bold.
 Overall, things in the ever-struggling DC corner seem to be moving along.
Eiza González Camila Mendes Anya Chalotra Melissa Barrera Adria Arjona Simone Ashley However, one-third of the DC Trinity remains a question mark. Gal Gadot’s Wonder Woman is nowhere to be found in any of the studio’s upcoming projects. The Israeli actress received acclaim for her take on Wonder Woman, with many considering her one of the few bright spots in the DCEU. However, Wonder Woman 1984 was a major disappointment, and Gunn’s plan to do a quasi-reboot on the DC Universe has led many to guess Gadot is out, much like Ben Affleck and Henry Cavill. That suspicion was recently confirmed by the actress herself in an Instagram post that expressed her desire to move forward as an “actress-for-hire.” A new Wonder Woman makes sense, especially with new Supes and Bats on the horizon. And while Gadot was a great Wonder Woman, it might be time to allow another actress to tackle the iconic role. Luckily, there are several worthy candidates to play the Princess of Themyscira; some are relative newcomers, while others have been working for a while, waiting for their big break. However, they would all do Wonder Woman justice on the big screen.
Who is the better Superman: Henry Cavill or Christopher Reeve? Batgirl should have been released instead of The Flash. Here’s why Why Michael Keaton is the best Batman ever Eiza González Image used with permission by copyright holder Mexican actress Eiza González made a name for herself in the world of telenovelas before moving to Los Angeles to pursue an international career. González first made a splash in Edgar Wright’s Baby Driver before appearing in films like Fast & Furious Presents: Hobbs & Shaw and Godzilla vs. Kong.
 Last year, she starred in Michael Bay’s Ambulance and will next play a leading role in Netflix’s upcoming series The Three-Body Problem.
González has been around Hollywood long enough to be a familiar face for audiences. However, she has been waiting for her big break for years, and Wonder Woman would be just that. The actress has proven her action credentials in many films, which, coupled with her height, build, and appearance, make her an obvious choice for the coveted role of Wonder Woman.
Camila Mendes Image used with permission by copyright holder Camila Mendes rose to prominence thanks to the now-infamous teen drama Riverdale.
 The actress played Veronica Lodge in the reimagined version of the classic Archie comics, staying with the show throughout its seven-season run. Mendes also appeared in other films while on Riverdale , most recently the underrated and wickedly funny Netflix original movie Do Revenge.
Gunn seems to be going for a younger Superman , meaning his fellow Trinity members should be of a similar age. At 28, Mendes is the ideal age to play the legendary Amazon warrior; she’s of a similar age as many of the names frequently mentioned for the new Superman, plus she’s young enough to sign the multiyear contract necessary for a high-profile role like this.
Anya Chalotra Image used with permission by copyright holder Netflix’s The Witcher owes most of its massive success to Cavill. However, Anya Chalotra is the show’s secret weapon. The British actress is tasked with playing The Witcher ‘s hardest character , the elusive Yennefer of Vengerberg and she knocks it out of the park. Chalotra does a stellar job embodying Yennefer’s nuances and contrarieties, crafting the show’s most engaging and layered character.
It’s unclear if The Witcher will survive Cavill’s exit — it most likely won’t, even though Netflix has heavily invested in it. However, the biggest loss would be leaving Chalotra without a vehicle for her considerable talent. So why not cast her as the new Diana? Chalotra’s casting would continue the trend of choosing an actress of Middle Eastern descent to play Wonder Woman, and her considerable acting chops would dignify whichever project she lands on.
Melissa Barrera Image used with permission by copyright holder Like González, Melissa Barrera began her career in Mexican telenovelas. After years of work, she had an explosive 2022, thanks to her leading role in the horror hit Scream 5 , followed by the acclaimed musical drama Carmen.
The success of Scream 6 and the upcoming horror romance Your Monster have cemented her as one of the best scream queens working today.
Barrera is at the right stage of her blossoming career to receive a major role in a comic book franchise. At 32, she is at the age limit Gunn will probably be looking for, but she can still appear alongside a twentysomething without much trouble. She has a lean, athletic figure that assembles Gadot’s, and her features would fit perfectly in the current version of Themyscira — which will probably remain similar despite Gunn’s planned changes. Barrera is also on the verge of becoming a major star, so DC should grab her before another franchise beats it to the punch.
Adria Arjona Image used with permission by copyright holder Adria Arjona is the daughter of popular Guatemalan crooner Ricardo Arjona. She began her career with the 2017 show Emerald City , and has worked consistently in the following years. Arjona has played major roles in several hit shows, including Good Omens and Andor , and films like Triple Frontier and Six Underground.
Arjona is no stranger to the comic book business, having starred in the notorious box-office bomb Morbius.
 However, no one saw Morbius , so she would literally be a fresh face should she be cast in the role of Wonder Woman. Arjona has a distinctive athleticism that makes her ideal to play an Amazon, plus the résumé to justify headlining a major franchise. Like most other actresses whose names get thrown around a potential Wonder Woman reboot, Arjona’s career is at the right stage to receive a major breakthrough.
Simone Ashley Image used with permission by copyright holder Sex Education fans knew Simone Ashley as Olivia, one-third of the Untouchables and Otis’ first client in the sex clinic. However, Ashley’s star exploded when she was cast as Kate Sharma, the romantic lead in season 2 of Netflix’s steamy period hit Bridgerton.
 She’ll return for the upcoming third season and was recently seen as one of Ariel’s sisters in The Little Mermaid.
Ashley would be an inspired choice to play Wonder Woman. She has a regal quality that would be perfect for the Princess of Themyscira, plus a commanding on-screen presence that would help her stand out alongside Superman and Batman. Ashley has no major upcoming projects other than Bridgerton season 3, a shame considering her talent and star quality. Thus, a role like Wonder Woman would be perfect for this familiar, yet still underrated actress.
Editors' Recommendations Who is the best Harley? All the Harley Quinns, ranked Is My Adventures with Superman worth watching? The Flash may have just killed the DC brand. Does it deserve a second chance? 5 DC characters who need to be in James Gunn’s DCU movies Who is the best Joker ever? We rank all the actors who have played Batman’s No. 1 enemy Comic Book Movies DC Comics Features Entertainment The DC Extended Universe, love it or hate it, has given audiences some of the most memorable and mind-blowing fight scenes ever seen in live-action. Viewers have seen the members of the Justice League and many other heroes engage in some dazzling and inventive brawls unlike anything the Marvel Cinematic Universe has done.
Since the DCEU seems to be near its end, here's a look back at some of the best fights from DC's greatest heroes.
12. Battling the Trench (Aquaman) Entertainment SnyderCon will arrive next week, with director Zack Snyder taking center stage to showcase his DC Extended Universe films and talk about what his fans love the most: himself. Arguably the most divisive director in Hollywood -- certainly the most divisive in the comic book movie world -- Snyder's name provokes both intense devotion and furious backlash. It's impossible to talk about him without acknowledging this ideological juxtaposition, to the point where his cinematic contributions have become somewhat tarnished.
And it's a shame because, love him or hate him, there's no denying Snyder is a unique filmmaker with a distinctive and instantly recognizable visual language. Highly stylized and uncompromisingly bombastic, Snyder's movies like his extended cut of Justice League are a visual feast, moving paintings with exquisite, albeit harsh strokes of brilliance. His action sequences are dynamic and immersive and his worlds are rich and layered. Snyder is the type of director who cares more about how the characters look than how they act, an admittedly controversial approach for any genre outside the world of superheroes.
Entertainment Since James Gunn is about to reboot the DC Extended Universe, many gifted actors from this mega-franchise may not stick around for its next batch of films and TV shows. Fortunately, this will leave them time to branch out into other projects, and their superhero movie experience makes them worthy of appearing in the Marvel Cinematic Universe.
There are plenty of actors in the DCEU who should get such sought-after roles, and these 10 actors are perfect to play these characters in the MCU.
Grace Caroline Currey as Jean Grey Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
