Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix F1 Live Stream Stranger Things Season 5 Best New Movies Most Popular Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney+ UFC Live Stream Best Movies on Disney+ Home Entertainment Reviews Asteroid City review: Wes Anderson’s dazzling technicolor dream By Alex Welch Close Robert Yeoman's stunning cinematography Jason Schwartzman's moving lead performance A strong collection of scene-stealing supporting performances A labyrinthine plot that's a bit too complicated for its own good An abstract structure that keeps certain characters (and their stories) at a distance Nobody loves a contradiction as much as Wes Anderson. The acclaimed writer-director has built his career telling stories about characters whose lives emotionally oppose their often perfectly manicured settings. Whether it be a hotel concierge whose belief in the power of common courtesy directly contradicts the fascistic political wave of his time or a pair of innocent kids who vow their love to each other even in the face of their adult guardians’ crumbling marriages and heartsick affairs, Anderson’s filmography is populated by all kinds of living contradictions.
There is, perhaps, no filmmaker alive who is better at exploring how our interior and exterior lives can become at odds with each other. It’s no surprise then that his latest film, Asteroid City , focuses on a collection of emotionally lost characters who end up quarantined in a desert town that’s so small it’d be impossible to physically lose your way in — a fact that’s made hilariously clear in an opening 360 degree shot that concisely establishes the entire layout of the film’s central roadside destination. Here, the grand contradiction of Anderson’s characters’ lives is obvious, and not just to us, but to them as well. Their often looney antics are, in turn, brought to gloriously bright, technicolor life here by Anderson and his frequent collaborator, cinematographer Robert Yeoman.
The 10 best Wes Anderson characters, ranked Is Asteroid City streaming? Vesper review: an imaginative sci-fi adventure The film’s story focuses partially on a group of parents and kids who travel in 1955 to “Asteroid City,” a one-stop American desert town, for a Junior Stargaze convention that gets surprisingly hijacked by the arrival of an alien presence. What emerges from this plot is not only Anderson’s first real sci-fi effort, but also the most ambitious film he’s made since 2014’s The Grand Budapest Hotel.
 This time around, the filmmaker isn’t just interested in exploring how we can get turned around in even the most precisely constructed of worlds, but how easily we can find ourselves lost in between the lines of a story, regardless of what our role is in it.
Focus Features Asteroid City is, like The Grand Budapest Hotel before it, a nesting-doll film. In its black-and-white, Twilight Zone -esque prologue, a TV host (Bryan Cranston) explains that the technicolor events of Asteroid City are not real, but are, in fact, the cinematic visualization of a stage play titled “Asteroid City.” Together, the film’s black-and-white and color sequences recreate not only the play known as “Asteroid City,” but also the creation and production of the play itself. To put that another way: Scarlett Johansson isn’t actually playing Midge Campbell in Asteroid City.
 She’s playing Mercedes Ford, a Broadway actress who has been hired to play herself playing Midge Campbell.
If this all sounds a bit confusing, that’s because it is, but Anderson doesn’t let the endless layers of Asteroid City drag it down. Before long, its various levels of reality have collapsed in on themselves to the point that the film’s fictional actors and the characters they’ve been hired to play feel interchangeable — except in the rare moments they’re not meant to. Visually, Anderson and Yeoman use the black-and-white palette of the film’s Broadway scenes to separate them from its technicolor sequences, which represent the actual dramatization of Asteroid City ’s eponymous play.
Anderson, for his part, uses the production of the film’s fictional play, as well as the play itself, to explore how the artistic process can force one to question oneself and their emotions the same way life can. Here, the filmmaker posits that an actor’s questions about their role ultimately aren’t all that different from the questions we ask ourselves in moments of overwhelming confusion and grief. It’s a testament to how well Anderson pulls this trick off in Asteroid City that, when one character suddenly asks “Am I playing him right?” aloud, it’s initially unclear whether it’s one of the film’s Broadway actors questioning their performance or a grief-stricken father wondering how badly he’s failing his kids.
Focus Features At the center of Asteroid City ’s play-within-a-play-within-a-teleplay is Augie Steenbeck (Jason Schwartzman), a war photographer who journeys with his three daughters and son, Woodrow (Jake Ryan), to Asteroid City so that Woodrow can participate in the town’s annual Junior Stargazer convention. While there, Augie tells his kids that their mother passed away three weeks prior and that he hasn’t had the nerve to tell them since then. In the days that follow, Augie not only reunites with his father-in-law ( A Man Called Otto ‘s Tom Hanks ), but also strikes up an unexpected romance with Johannson’s Midge, a popular movie star who arrives in Asteroid City with her daughter, Dinah (Grace Edwards), another Junior Stargazer.
Everything goes a bit haywire for everyone in Asteroid City when they witness an unprecedented alien event, which causes the government forces present in town (led by Jeffrey Wright’s hilariously uptight General Grif Gibson) to place them under a mandatory quarantine. Plenty of typically Andersonian comedic gags follow, including an argument involving a death ray and a disgruntled father (Liev Schrieber, at his most gloriously irritable) that prompts a marvelously funny line reading from Hanks. Along the way, Anderson also packs in enough moments of awkward flirtation and youthful curiosity to make Asteroid City his most sweetly romantic film since 2012’s Moonrise Kingdom.
As humorous as much of Asteroid City is, it’s Schwartzman who ensures that the film doesn’t stray too far from the Earth. One of Anderson’s oldest and most reliable performers, Schwartzman is given the chance here to join his director’s long list of wounded, emotionally distant father figures. With his often glazed eyes and monotonal line delivery, Schwartzman plays Augie as a man who feels profoundly untethered from the life he once had, which only makes the character’s shared grief with Hanks’ acerbic Stanley all the more tragic. Their sympathetic, contradictory dynamic is illustrated best in one early scene when Augie tells Stanley that he hasn’t told his kids about their mother’s death because “the time is never right.” Stanley, in response, tells him, “the time is always wrong.” Image used with permission by copyright holder Anderson props up Schwartzman with a bevy of note-perfect supporting performances, specifically those given by Johansson, Hanks, Wright, Tilda Swinton, and Margot Robbie, who shows up in just one scene, but gives a clutch hitter performance for the ages. While not everyone in Asteroid City is quite as unmoored as Schwartzman’s Augie, they’re all searching for answers about themselves that they may never find. Midge, for instance, wonders aloud at one point whether her habit of playing depressed, suicidal characters stems from the fact that she herself is depressed and suicidal or that she isn’t.
Asteroid City doesn’t reveal whether Midge ever solves that riddle, and her questions aren’t the only ones that go unanswered in the film.
Here, Anderson seems less interested in the answers to his characters’ situations than he does in the questions that plague them. In Asteroid City , the filmmaker embraces the unknowability of certain mysteries, insisting that uncertainty should never be a barrier to entry. “Trust your curiosity,” Swinton’s adult scientist says to one of the film’s Junior Stargazers during a key scene, bridging the gap between Asteroid City ’s space age setting and its introspective story of life in transition. Later, when a group of actors all proclaim that “you can’t wake up if you never fall asleep,” Asteroid City ’s interest in our lives’ various detours and pit stops becomes vibrantly clear.
In typical Anderson fashion, Asteroid City ’s characters aren’t afraid to look each other in the eye. But looking at others isn’t nearly as difficult as turning that same unblinking gaze upon ourselves.
Asteroid City knows this. It also knows that self-reflection, no matter how painful, is necessary. Even if we never find any satisfactory answers to the questions we have about ourselves and the universe, Asteroid City argues that there is value in searching for them, the same way there is value in losing and getting lost. Sometimes, the mere act of returning to oneself is reward enough. After all, you can’t get started again if you never stop, and you can’t wake up if you never fall asleep.
Asteroid City is now playing in theaters.
Editors' Recommendations Where to stream Asteroid City All of Wes Anderson’s movies, ranked Rosaline review: Kaitlyn Dever lifts up Hulu’s Romeo and Juliet rom-com riff Meet Cute review: Peacock’s time travel rom-com falls flat Barbarian review: the less you know, the better Product Reviews Entertainment Bodies Bodies Bodies, the new film from Dutch director Halina Reijn, may offer more than its fair share of mangled and bloody corpses, but its gnarliest moments have nothing to do with death or murder. Instead, the new A24 horror comedy ultimately cares less about the deaths of the characters it traps in its suitably spooky mansion and more about burning the images they have of themselves to the ground. Thanks to its ensemble of social media-obsessed Gen Z narcissists, Bodies Bodies Bodies’ decision to prioritize social death over literal death proves to be well-founded.
Over the course of its tight 95-minute runtime, the film sends its characters spiraling down their own rabbit holes of paranoia and desperation until there’s nothing left for them to do but blame each other for the difficult situations they’ve found themselves in. For that reason, Bodies Bodies Bodies tends to be at its best and most biting when it isn't operating as a standard slasher movie, but rather as a kind of nightmarish new take on Clue for the TikTok generation.
Entertainment Flux Gourmet exists in its own strange world, one where concepts like “good taste” and “bad taste” do not seem to exist.
Written and directed by cult British filmmaker Peter Strickland, the new film plays squarely by its own rules from start to finish, digging deeper and deeper into a world where performance art, food, sexual politics, and shame-inducing bouts of excessive flatulence (yes, you read that correctly) all intersect. Rarely, if ever, does Flux Gourmet stop to explain itself, and while another director might have chosen to make the film’s cast of characters the members of an underground movement, Strickland chooses to let them play in the sun above ground.
Entertainment In 2019, Adam Sandler proved he still has what it takes to be one of Hollywood’s most versatile and charismatic performers with his performance in the Safdie Brothers’ adrenaline-fueled Uncut Gems. Not since 2002’s Punch-Drunk Love had Sandler played a character so different from his usual goofball archetype, and he earned some well-deserved acclaim for his turn as the film's self-destructive lead. But Uncut Gems did more than just reaffirm Sandler’s status as a more versatile leading man than his filmography would have you believe.
The film also offered the promise of being the first entry in a new chapter in Sandler’s career, one featuring more variety and legitimately dramatic stories from the Happy Gilmore star than viewers had seen in previous years. While it remains to be seen if that’s the direction Sandler’s career will ultimately take in the coming years, Hustle certainly seems to suggest that it might be.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
