Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix F1 Live Stream Stranger Things Season 5 Best New Movies Most Popular Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney+ UFC Live Stream Best Movies on Disney+ Home Entertainment Guides The best rom-coms on Amazon Prime right now By Christine Persaud , Nick Perry and Michael Bizzaco Close The best rom-coms on Amazon Prime Video right now include a number of Amazon Originals, as well as some old favorites. From teen rom-coms that defined a generation to modern-day takes on the genre, there’s something for everyone. Yes, that means there are options even if you aren’t into the traditional sappy rom-com fare.
If you’re looking for a good rom-com that will be a compromise between partners, or maybe you want to curl up and watch one yourself, we have you covered with this constantly updated list. We keep track of what has left Amazon Prime Video and what new titles have arrived so you don’t have to. Peruse this list and you’re sure to find something that fits your mood.
Amazon Prime Video isn’t short on titles, but it may not have what you’re looking for. Fortunately, we’ve also rounded up the best romantic comedies on Netflix and the best romantic comedies on Hulu.
Save on everything from laptops and tablets, to coffee makers and air purifiers, and a whole host of Apple tech like iPad, Apple Watch and even the latest M3 MacBooks, as well as smart home essentials like the Amazon Echo and smart bulbs.
EXmas 2023 10 Things I Hate About You 1999 EXmas (2023) new Romance, Comedy Leighton Meester, Robbie Amell, Michael Hitchcock Jonah Feingold watch on Amazon watch on Amazon Upload ’ s Robbie Amell is joined by Gossip Girl ‘s Leighton Meester in this holiday rom-con about a pair of exes who end up in a precarious position. When Graham (Amell) excitedly returns home to surprise his family for the holidays, he is shocked to see that his ex-fiancé, Ali (Meester), is there, celebrating with them.
Naturally, they both can’t stay: that would make things far too awkward for everyone. So they each decide to fight for their rightful place in the family in hopes of being the one whose able to stay for Christmas Day. Naturally, hilarity ensues.
EXmas is available to stream through the Amazon Freevee service with ads.
Read less 10 Things I Hate About You (1999) new 97m Comedy, Romance, Drama Heath Ledger, Julia Stiles, Joseph Gordon-Levitt Gil Junger watch on Amazon watch on Amazon Based on Shakespeare’s The Taming of the Shrew , Julia Stiles and the late Heath Ledger shine in this teen rom-com about unlikely love. When Cameron ( The Dark Knight Rises star Joseph Gordon-Levitt) is desperate to date the pretty and popular Bianca (Larisa Oleynik), he runs into a snag when he learns of her father’s strict rules. So he enlists the help of Australian bad boy student Patrick (Ledger) to date Bianca’s antisocial sister, Kat (Stiles), so her dad loosens the leash.
Once he’s offered money, Patrick takes on the project. But surprise, surprise, he and Kat both start to actually fall for one another. Naturally, she’ll find out the truth eventually, and things get messy.
10 Things I Hate About You is arguably one of the best teen rom-coms of the late ‘90s/early aughts. From the cast to the writing and modern-day interpretation of a classic story, it’s a worthwhile watch.
Read less Red, White & Royal Blue (2023) 121m Comedy, Romance Taylor Zakhar Perez, Nicholas Galitzine, Uma Thurman Matthew López watch on Amazon watch on Amazon Based on the LGBTQ romance novel by Casey McQuiston, Red, White & Royal Blue is the story of Alex (Taylor Zakhar Perez), the son of the U.S. president, and his relationship with the British prince, Henry (Nicholas Galitzine). At first, it’s a tumultuous one, but the pair soon strike up a romance. This causes controversy for both families, resulting in secrets, scandals, and the age-old story of forbidden love.
Red, White & Royal Blue has been praised for its handling of inclusion and LGBTQ romance without resorting to stereotypical depictions. As one of Amazon’s top watched romantic comedies, the story is as fairy tale as they come, with a modern and inclusive twist that is sure to entertain anyone who watches it.
Read less Ticket to Paradise (2022) 104m Romance, Comedy Julia Roberts, George Clooney, Kaitlyn Dever Ol Parker watch on Amazon watch on Amazon The acting talents of George Clooney and Julia Roberts, combined with their consistently fabulous on-screen chemistry, is always a winning combination. Such is the case with Ticket to Paradise.
 Almost worthy of being called an anti-rom-com, the pair play David and Georgia, a divorced couple who can’t stand one another.
When their daughter, Lily (Kaitlyn Dever), graduates from college, however, and makes a rash decision to get married to a man she meets on vacation in Bali, leaving her career aspirations behind, the two must unite. They travel together to Bali to try and convince their daughter that she’s making a mistake, one that’s all too reminiscent of one they made themselves decades prior. Despite mixed reviews, Ticket to Paradise was a box-office success. It’s full of laughs, along with heartwarming and relatable moments.
Read less Somebody I Used to Know (2023) 106m Romance, Comedy, Drama Alison Brie, Jay Ellis, Kiersey Clemons Dave Franco watch on Amazon watch on Amazon Dave Franco co-wrote this rom-com alongside his wife Alison Brie , who stars as Ally, the showrunner of a reality TV show that is almost over its 15 minutes in the spotlight. With a cancellation brewing, Ally comes to the realization that her work has consumed her and she doesn’t have much of a social life outside of it. She decides to visit her mother in Washington where she runs into an ex-boyfriend who, she discovers, is about to get married.
Somebody I Used to Know isn’t your cliched rom-com: the movie is praised for its nuanced story and comedic moments. But it’s also an inspiring movie that takes you on a journey of self-discovery and that there’s so much you can learn about yourself not only from your successful relationships but the failed ones, too.
Read less About Fate (2022) 100m Romance, Comedy Emma Roberts, Thomas Mann, Lewis Tan Marius Weisberg watch on Amazon watch on Amazon Emma Roberts and Thomas Mann star as a realtor and a lawyer, respectively, who live similar lives in different places. Through a chance encounter after eerily similar embarrassing experiences with their significant others, the pair meet. The rest, as they say in movie world, is history.
About Fate is a sweet film that serves as a remake of the 1975 Soviet TV movie The Irony of Fate.
 The premise shows that somewhere, somehow, someone else might be going through the same experiences you are. You’re not alone. And everyone can find love, sometimes in the strangest of places, especially when it’s meant to be.
Read less The Lost City (2022) 112m Action, Adventure, Comedy Sandra Bullock, Channing Tatum, Daniel Radcliffe Adam Nee, Aaron Nee watch on Amazon watch on Amazon Sandra Bullock and Channing Tatum shine in this corny albeit entertaining action-adventure comedy that throws in a bit of romance, too. Bullock is Loretta, a successful romance novelist who ends up on a real journey with the cover model of her latest book (Tatum) as they try to escape the clutches of a billionaire villain (Daniel Radcliffe). He’s looking for the lost ancient burial chamber she describes in one of her books, believing it to be real since she based the story on historical facts.
The odd pairing of the grumpy, reclusive widow and the handsome, attention-seeking model draws you into the story of The Lost City.
 And no surprises, there’s a bit of romance in the end.
Read less Book of Love (2022) pg-13 106m Comedy, Romance Sam Claflin, Verónica Echegui, Antonia Clarke Analeine Cal y Mayor watch on Amazon watch on Amazon Read less My Fake Boyfriend (2022) r 100m Comedy, Romance Keiynan Lonsdale, Dylan Sprouse, Sarah Hyland Rose Troche watch on Amazon watch on Amazon Read less Licorice Pizza (2021) r 133m Drama, Comedy Alana Haim, Cooper Hoffman, Sean Penn Paul Thomas Anderson watch on Amazon watch on Amazon Read less His Girl Friday (1940) g 92m Comedy, Drama, Romance Cary Grant, Rosalind Russell, Ralph Bellamy Howard Hawks watch on Amazon watch on Amazon Read less I Want You Back (2022) r 111m Comedy, Romance Jenny Slate, Charlie Day, Scott Eastwood Jason Orley watch on Amazon watch on Amazon Read less Best rom-coms on Netflix Best rom-coms on Hulu Best romance TV shows on Netflix Best movies on Amazon Prime The Map of Tiny Perfect Things (2021) pg-13 99m Fantasy, Romance Kathryn Newton, Kyle Allen, Jermaine Harris Ian Samuels watch on Amazon watch on Amazon Read less Brittany Runs a Marathon (2019) r 103m Comedy, Drama Jillian Bell, Michaela Watkins, Utkarsh Ambudkar Paul Downs Colaizzo watch on Amazon watch on Amazon Read less The Big Sick (2017) r 120m Comedy, Drama, Romance Kumail Nanjiani, Zoe Kazan, Holly Hunter Michael Showalter watch on Amazon watch on Amazon Read less Life Itself (2018) r 118m Drama, Romance Oscar Isaac, Olivia Wilde, Annette Bening Dan Fogelman watch on Amazon watch on Amazon Read less Editors' Recommendations The best Hulu original series right now The 50 best anime on Hulu right now The best comedies on Netflix right now Best new movies to stream on Netflix, Hulu, Prime Video, Max (HBO), and more The best kids movies on Netflix right now Amazon Best Products Streaming Guides Movie images and data from: Entertainment There's nothing better than a long holiday weekend to catch up on your favorite films on Netflix. This weekend has a particularly strong lineup that includes the streaming debut of David Fincher's The Killer, which was briefly in theaters last month. Additionally, the horror title, Insidious: The Red Door, has some post-Halloween scares, while Spider-Man: Across the Spider-Verse remains one of the best options for movie lovers of all ages.
Want to stay on top of everything new on Netflix? Every week on Friday, we go over the newly available films to update our list of the best movies on Netflix right now.
Entertainment Netflix has grown into one of the best mainstream platforms to stream anime in recent years. Over the years, the streamer has served its animated catalog impressively well. Naturally, that dense library includes anime as well, and thanks to a respectable dose of original series and established hits, Netflix hosts some of the greatest anime to watch, spanning moves and TV shows of every genre a prospective fan could want.
Crunchyroll and Funimation are the primary streamers for the genre. Even so, considering the dominating presence Netflix has in the streaming market internationally, it's a worthy supplement. But even with how relatively mainstream the genre has become westward, it can still feel daunting to know where to start. Thankfully, this guide is consistently updated every month to help you pick from Netflix's library of excellent anime available now.
If you want more options, check out our other guides to the best anime on Hulu and the best anime available on Amazon Prime Video.
Entertainment Disney+ is one of the best places to stream some of the best movies available. The pace at which the streamer adds original content may be inconsistent, but legacy additions help maintain its mainstream appeal. That's in large part thanks to reliable brands like Star Wars, Marvel, and National Geographic being constant contributors to the catalog. Having a diverse library is an important asset to help a streamer to stand apart in a packed market, and this monthly guide will help you sift through the Disney+ movie selection for the best titles to stream right now.
If you're not already fully invested, the Disney Bundle is also worth your money. With this package, customers gain access to Disney+, ESPN+, and Hulu's ad-supported plan for just $13 a month. Given the diversity of content on offer from these platforms, that's a respectable value.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
