Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix F1 Live Stream Stranger Things Season 5 Best New Movies Most Popular Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney+ UFC Live Stream Best Movies on Disney+ Home Entertainment Guides The best shows on Max (formerly HBO Max) right now By Christine Persaud and Blair Marnell Close The best shows on Max (formerly HBO Max) right now include a variety of new series like The Last of Us and House of the Dragon.
But sometimes, it’s the old gems that we’re really in the mood. With the untimely passing of Matthew Perry , chances are that those who grew up in the 1990s and 2000s will be looking to relive old episodes of Friends, and they’re all available to stream on Max.
Also this month, the Max Original Julia returns with its second season to continue the story of influential and trailblazing celebrity cook, cooking show host, and author Julia Child. The new adult animated series Scavenger’s Reign has also been gaining attention. From classic sitcoms to new dramas, comedies, thrillers, and more, Max has it all. Could it be any better? Looking for something else? We’ve also rounded up the best shows on Hulu , the best shows on Netflix , the best shows on Amazon Prime Video , and the best shows on Disney+.
Scavengers Reign tv-ma 2023 Julia tv-ma 2022 Sesame Street tv-y 1969 Our Flag Means Death tv-ma 2022 Friends (1994) tv-14 10 Seasons Comedy Jennifer Aniston, Courteney Cox, Lisa Kudrow Marta Kauffman, David Crane watch on max watch on max With the untimely passing of Matthew Perry, who’s most recognizable role was as Chandler Bing in this iconic sitcom, it’s a good time to binge all 10 seasons of Friends.
 Remember not only what makes the series part of pop culture history, but also how fabulously hilarious Perry, and the rest of the talented cast, were in their roles. Relive some of the best episodes of Friends and the funny moments, quotable quotes, and sarcastic one-liners.
Read less The 50 best movies on Netflix right now (November 2023) The best Hulu original series right now The 50 best anime on Hulu right now Scavengers Reign (2023) new tv-ma 1 Season Sci-Fi & Fantasy, Drama, Animation Sunita Mani, Wunmi Mosaku, Alia Shawkat Charles Huettner, Joseph Bennett watch on max watch on max Combine your love of sci-fi with adult animation in Scavenger’s Reign , an animated drama about a group of survivors on a cargo ship that was destroyed after landing on an alien planet. The planet is habitable, but it’s also filled with plenty of danger.
There are five main characters, including Azi (Wunmi Mosaku) and her robot friend Levi, voiced by Alia Shawkat, along with Ursula (Sunita Mani), Sam (Bob Stephenson), and Kamen (Ted Travelstead). While Scavenger’s Reign hasn’t been one of the more high-profile show launches, the critics who have watched have given it a perfect 100% Rotten Tomatoes score, calling the series “magnificent” and “hypnotic.” There are a dozen episodes in season 1.
Read less Julia (2022) new tv-ma 2 Seasons Drama Sarah Lancashire, David Hyde Pierce, Brittany Bradford Daniel Goldfarb watch on max watch on max Sarah Lancashire completely embodies Julia Child, one of the most influential celebrity cooks and a mainstay on television screens in the 1960s. Her signature style while filming her iconic show The French Chef has inspired many who came after her.
Julia is a comedy-drama that is based on her life, including her marriage to husband, Paul (David Hyde Pierce), an artist and retired diplomat; her book editor, Fiona Glascott (Judith Jones); and others with whom she worked and spent time. Lancashire brings Child’s big personality to life in this inspiring, fun, and humorous depiction.
Read less Rap Sh!t (2022) tv-ma 2 Seasons Comedy Aida Osman, KaMillion, Jonica Booth Issa Rae watch on max watch on max Insecure star Issa Rae returned to Max to create a new comedy series, Rap Sh!t , in 2022, and it has returned for a second season. KaMillion and Aida Osman headline the show as Mia Knight and Shawna Clark, respectively. In high school, they were close friends. But in the present, they barely know each other because life has taken them in wildly different directions.
When they are finally reunited, Mia and Shawna rediscover the spark of their connection and decide to form a rap group. While Shawna has undeniable talent, she and Mia clash about what they should rap about. As a rap duo, they’re a work in progress. But as a comedy series, this is a can’t-miss show.
Read less Sesame Street (1969) new tv-y 54 Seasons Kids, Comedy Joan Ganz Cooney, Lloyd Morrisett watch on max watch on max The long-running educational children’s program, and one of the longest-running shows in the world, Sesame Street is now in it 54 th season and still going strong. Hailing from the Sesame Workshop and featuring the Jim Henson Muppets, the series combines live action with sketch comedy, animation, and puppetry, and features a list of celebrity appearances every season.
Kids learn not only about letters, numbers, and more, but also about everything from kindness to politics, race, emotions, and other topics to help their developing minds grow and their learning flourish. As a show that many parents, and even grandparents, watched as kids themselves, Sesame Street is a must-watch for any household with preschool children.
Read less Our Flag Means Death (2022) new tv-ma 2 Seasons Comedy Rhys Darby, Taika Waititi, Kristian Nairn David Jenkins watch on max watch on max Read less Doom Patrol (2019) new tv-ma 4 Seasons Sci-Fi & Fantasy, Drama Diane Guerrero, April Bowlby, Joivan Wade Jeremy Carver watch on max watch on max Read less Gangs of London (2020) tv-ma 2 Seasons Crime, Drama Jasmine Armando, Orli Shuka, Sope Dirisu Gareth Evans, Matt Flannery watch on max watch on max Part of the AMC+ Picks on Max collection of shows that will be available for 60 days, Gangs of London is a British series based on the video game of the same name. As the title indicates, the series follows several rival gangs throughout London and their struggles for power. The story begins when the head of the most powerful crime family in the city is assassinated and an all-out war brews as the gangs try and uncover who ordered his murder. Meanwhile, an undercover police officer has managed to infiltrate one of the gangs and hopes to bring the crimes to an end.
Highly praised by critics who call Gangs of London a “modern crime family masterpiece,” the series has a total of two seasons and 17 episodes available to stream for a limited time.
Read less A Discovery of Witches (2018) tv-14 3 Seasons Sci-Fi & Fantasy, Drama Teresa Palmer, Matthew Goode, Edward Bluemel Kate Brooke watch on max watch on max Another selection within the AMC+ Picks on Max collection, A Discovery of Witches is worth watching before it’s gone. Diana (Teresa Palmer) is a historian and witch who comes across a bewitched manuscript in a local library. This forces her to get back into the world of witchcraft, working alongside a vampire named Matthew (Matthew Goode) to investigate the secrets behind the magical beings described in the book. But it won’t be easy as Diana and Matthew must thwart threats from other creatures.
The British fantasy series has three seasons, which originally aired from 2018 through 2022. The chemistry between the two leads is a particular standout of the series, which was nominated for Best New Drama at the National Television Awards.
Read less Killing Eve (2018) tv-14 4 Seasons Crime, Drama Sandra Oh, Jodie Comer, Fiona Shaw Phoebe Waller-Bridge watch on max watch on max A hit Emmy-winning series for Hulu, Killing Eve is now available to stream on Max for a limited time as another option in the new AMC+ Picks on Max collection. The spy thriller based on the Luke Jennings novel series and features Phoebe Waller-Bridge ( Indiana Jones and the Dial of Destiny ) as its head writer for the first season. It explores the relationship between a psychopathic assassin named Villanelle (Jodie Comer) and a British intelligence investigator named Eve (Sandra Oh), who has been tasked with capturing her.
The two women soon strike up an intense bond as they each obsess about their respective missions. A love story as much as it is a spy thriller, Killing Eve ended its run with a fourth and final season in 2022. If you haven’t yet encountered spoilers about the explosive ending, it’s worth a watch to see one of the best female-led series of the decade.
Read less My Adventures with Superman (2023) tv-pg 1 Season Animation, Action & Adventure, Sci-Fi & Fantasy Jack Quaid, Alice Lee, Ishmel Sahid Jake Wyatt watch on max watch on max Clark Kent is a young man just building his identity as Superman in this Adult Swim animated superhero series based on the DC Comics character. Jack Quaid ( The Boys ) voices the iconic character and Alice Lee ( Zoey’s Extraordinary Playlist ) is Lois Lane, who is working her way up the career ladder as a reporter.
Read less Harley Quinn (2019) tv-ma 4 Seasons Sci-Fi & Fantasy, Animation, Crime, Action & Adventure, Comedy Kaley Cuoco, Lake Bell Dean Lorey, Patrick Schumacker, Justin Halpern watch on max watch on max Read less Looney Tunes Cartoons (2020) tv-pg 6 Seasons Family, Animation, Comedy watch on max watch on max Read less The Righteous Gemstones (2019) tv-ma 3 Seasons Comedy John Goodman, Danny McBride, Walton Goggins Danny McBride watch on max watch on max John Goodman heads up the ensemble cast in this Danny McBride-created black comedy crime series about a family of televangelists and megachurch pastors. They speak the word of the Lord, but their padded pocketbooks suggest they really speak the word of capitalism. The family’s opulent lifestyle also indicates that donations from parishioners are being used for a lot more than just giving back.
Goodman is Eli Gemstone in The Righteous Gemstones , a widow who heads up the church/company, while his three children Jesse (McBride), Judy (Edi Patterson), and Kelvin (Adam DeVine) are involved in varying ways. But their immaturity and spoiled nature mean they’re not up to the task of actually running things. Called “uproariously funny,” reviews for The Righteous Gemstones get better with each season.
Read less Rick and Morty (2013) tv-ma 6 Seasons Animation, Comedy, Sci-Fi & Fantasy, Action & Adventure Justin Roiland, Chris Parnell, Spencer Grammer Dan Harmon, Justin Roiland watch on max watch on max Read less Barry (2018) tv-ma 4 Seasons Comedy, Crime Bill Hader, Stephen Root, Henry Winkler Bill Hader, Alec Berg watch on max watch on max Read less Somebody Somewhere (2022) tv-ma 2 Seasons Comedy, Drama Bridget Everett, Mike Hagerty, Jeff Hiller Hannah Bos, Paul Thureen watch on max watch on max Receiving rave reviews for its first season and now back for a second season, Somebody, Somewhere is a comedy-drama starring comedian, actor, singer, writer, and cabaret performer Bridgett Everett. She’s a woman named Sam dealing with a midlife crisis following the death of her sister.
Inspired by Everett’s real life, the show boasts a perfect Rotten Tomatoes rating , with critics calling Everett “captivating” and applauding the way the show “exposes the human condition with tenderness, grace, and warmth.” Read less Succession (2018) tv-ma 4 Seasons Drama, Comedy Hiam Abbass, Nicholas Braun, Brian Cox, Kieran Culkin, Peter Friedman, Natalie Gold, Matthew Macfadyen Jesse Armstrong watch on max watch on max With several Emmy wins under its belt, including Outstanding Drama Series, Succession has become one of HBO’s most popular series. Waystar Royco is a global media and hospitality empire headed up by the cutthroat, cruel Logan Roy. As he reaches retirement age and suffers a health setback, he must look to his rich and entitled children to find a successor. But who of his four children, from the arrogant playboy to the power-hungry and visionary addict, is really ready and deserving? And will Logan ever be ready to hand over the reins anyway? The question of who will take over hovers above every episode and season as the company, Logan, and the Roy family engage in dirty tactics, flaunt their wealth, and find themselves constantly embroiled in controversy. With everything coming to a head in the fourth and final season, Succession is poised to go down in history as not only one of the best shows on HBO, but also one of the best shows of this decade, period.
Read less The Last of Us (2023) tv-ma 1 Season Drama, Sci-Fi & Fantasy, Action & Adventure Pedro Pascal, Bella Ramsey, Gabriel Luna Craig Mazin, Neil Druckmann watch on max watch on max Pedro Pascal stars in this post-apocalyptic drama as Joel, a smuggler transporting a teenage girl named Ellie (Bell Ramsey) out of a quarantine zone and across the U.S., two decades after the end of modern civilization. Through the brutal journey, the two must rely on one another more than they realized, but Joel has his own demons, tormented by his past.
Considered to be the largest TV production ever in Canada (it was filmed in Alberta) and the first from HBO to be based on a video game, The Last of Us boasts an impressive supporting cast as well. This includes Gabriel Luna ( Marvel’s Agents of S.H.I.E.L.D.
) as Tommy, Joel’s younger brother and a hopeful former soldier, and Merle Dandridge as Marlene, head of a resistance movement, who is reprising her role from the video games. Guest stars include Murray Bartlett ( The White Lotus ) and Nick Offerman ( Parks and Recreation ) as survivalists, and Melanie Lynskey ( Yellowjackets ) as the leader of a revolutionary movement.
Read less The Sex Lives of College Girls (2021) tv-ma 2 Seasons Comedy Pauline Chalamet, Amrit Kaur, Reneé Rapp Mindy Kaling, Justin Noble watch on max watch on max Read less His Dark Materials (2019) tv-14 3 Seasons Sci-Fi & Fantasy, Drama Dafne Keen, Ruth Wilson, James McAvoy, Lin-Manuel Miranda Jack Throne watch on max watch on max Read less The White Lotus (2021) tv-ma 2 Seasons Comedy, Drama, Mystery Alexandra Daddario, Jake Lacy, Connie Britton, Steve Zahn, Jennifer Coolidge, Murray Bartlett, Sydney Sweeney, Brittany O'Grady Mike White watch on max watch on max It’s probably a good thing that the chain of White Lotus luxury resorts isn’t actually real. Because the vacations in seasons 1 and 2 just go completely off the rails. And that’s before the dead bodies start showing up! Initially planned as a single season, The White Lotus follows an odd assortment of guests and the beleaguered hotel staff who labor to keep them happy. It works really well as both a comedy and a drama, which is why we’re currently checking in for the new episodes streaming each week. You don’t necessarily have to watch season 1 to enjoy season 2, both with different settings and (almost) entirely new casts.
Read less House of the Dragon (2022) tv-ma 1 Season Drama, Action & Adventure, Sci-Fi & Fantasy, Mystery Paddy Considine, Matt Smith, Rhys Ifans George R. R. Martin, Ryan Condal watch on max watch on max Read less Hacks (2021) tv-ma 1 Season Comedy, Drama Jean Smart, Hannah Einbinder, Carl Clemons-Hopkins Jen Statsky, Lucia Aniello, Paul W. Downs watch on max watch on max Read less Tokyo Vice (2022) tv-ma 1 Season Crime, Drama Ansel Elgort, Ken Watanabe, Rinko Kikuchi J.T. Rogers watch on max watch on max Read less Peacemaker (2022) tv-ma 1 Season Action & Adventure, Comedy, Sci-Fi & Fantasy John Cena, Danielle Brooks, Freddie Stroma James Gunn watch on max watch on max Read less Fringe (2008) tv-14 5 Seasons Sci-Fi & Fantasy, Drama, Mystery Anna Torv, Jasika Nicole, Joshua Jackson J.J. Abrams, Alex Kurtzman, Roberto Orci watch on max watch on max Read less Station Eleven (2021) tv-ma 1 Season Drama, Sci-Fi & Fantasy Mackenzie Davis, Himesh Patel, Daniel Zovatto Patrick Somerville watch on max watch on max Read less Babylon 5 (1994) tv-pg 5 Seasons Drama, Sci-Fi & Fantasy Bruce Boxleitner, Jerry Doyle, Mira Furlan J. Michael Straczynski watch on max watch on max Read less The Outsider (2020) tv-ma 1 Season Mystery, Drama, Crime Ben Mendelsohn, Cynthia Erivo, Bill Camp Richard Price watch on max watch on max Read less Band of Brothers (2001) tv-ma 1 Season Drama, War & Politics Damian Lewis, Donnie Wahlberg, Eion Bailey watch on max watch on max Read less Best shows on Amazon Prime Best shows on Hulu Best shows on Netflix Best movies on HBO Max Curb Your Enthusiasm (2000) tv-ma 11 Seasons Comedy Larry David, Jeff Garlin Larry David watch on max watch on max Read less Chernobyl (2019) tv-ma 1 Season Drama Jared Harris, Stellan Skarsgård, Emily Watson Craig Mazin watch on max watch on max Read less Mare of Easttown (2021) tv-ma 1 Season Crime, Drama, Mystery Kate Winslet, Julianne Nicholson, Jean Smart Brad Ingelsby watch on max watch on max Read less Deadwood (2004) tv-ma 3 Seasons Western, Crime Timothy Olyphant, Ian McShane, Molly Parker David Milch watch on max watch on max Read less Search Party (2016) tv-ma 4 Seasons Comedy Alia Shawkat, John Reynolds, John Early Sarah-Violet Bliss, Charles Rogers watch on max watch on max Read less Batman: The Animated Series (1992) tv-pg 4 Seasons Action & Adventure, Animation, Drama, Mystery Kevin Conroy, Efrem Zimbalist Jr., Loren Lester Bruce Timm, Eric Radomski watch on max watch on max Read less The West Wing (1999) tv-14 7 Seasons Drama Martin Sheen, Allison Janney, Richard Schiff Aaron Sorkin watch on max watch on max Read less Young Justice (2010) tv-14 4 Seasons Animation, Sci-Fi & Fantasy, Action & Adventure Danica McKellar, Jesse McCartney, Nolan North Greg Weisman, Brandon Vietti watch on max watch on max Read less Veep (2012) tv-ma 7 Seasons Comedy Julia Louis-Dreyfus, Anna Chlumsky, Tony Hale Armando Iannucci watch on max watch on max Read less The Wire (2002) tv-ma 5 Seasons Crime, Drama Dominic West, Lance Reddick, Sonja Sohn David Simon watch on max watch on max Read less Sex and the City (1998) tv-ma 6 Seasons Comedy Sarah Jessica Parker, Kim Cattrall, Cynthia Nixon Darren Star watch on max watch on max Read less Game of Thrones (2011) tv-ma 8 Seasons Sci-Fi & Fantasy, Drama, Action & Adventure Emilia Clarke, Peter Dinklage, Lena Headey, Kit Harington, Sophie Turner, Maisie Williams David Benioff, D. B. Weiss watch on max watch on max Read less Doctor Who (2005) tv-pg 13 Seasons Action & Adventure, Drama, Sci-Fi & Fantasy Jodie Whittaker, Mandip Gill, John Bishop Sydney Newman, Donald Wilson, C. E. Webber watch on max watch on max Read less The Sopranos (1999) tv-ma 6 Seasons Drama James Gandolfini, Edie Falco, Jamie-Lynn Sigler David Chase watch on max watch on max Read less Anthony Bourdain: Parts Unknown (2013) tv-pg 12 Seasons Documentary Anthony Bourdain watch on max watch on max Read less South Park (1997) tv-ma 24 Seasons Animation, Comedy Trey Parker, Matt Stone, April Stewart Trey Parker, Matt Stone watch on max watch on max Read less Watchmen (2019) tv-ma 1 Season Crime, Drama, Action & Adventure, Sci-Fi & Fantasy Regina King, Yahya Abdul-Mateen II, Jeremy Irons Damon Lindelof watch on max watch on max Read less Editors' Recommendations The best new shows to stream on Netflix, Hulu, Max (HBO), and more The 50 best shows on Netflix in November 2023 The best movies and shows on Shudder right now (November 2023) The best Black movies on Netflix right now The 10 most popular movies on Netflix right now Best Products HBO Max Streaming Guides Streaming Services Movie images and data from: Entertainment The best feel-good movies on Netflix right now include plenty of romantic comedies to watch while snuggling up with your partner, pet, or favorite blanket.
There's also a concert tour documentary courtesy of Taylor Swift, which is particularly topical due to the singing sensation's dominance of the pop culture zeitgeist. We've sorted through the best feel-good movies on Netflix and feel good about the list below.
Entertainment It's not hard to find a great comedy movie on Netflix. Unlike some other genres like sci-fi and fantasy, Netflix keeps its lineup of comedies well-stocked with some recent box-office hits, like Jennifer Lawrence's No Hard Feelings, as well as classic titles on loan from other studios and a lot of original films. This month's new additions include the first theatrical adaptation of The Addams Family, The Big Lebowski, and Scott Pilgrim vs. the World. It's pretty hard to go wrong with those flicks.
Comedies come and go, which is why it's important to stay glued to what's new on Netflix. If you're looking for laughs, these are the best comedies on Netflix right now.
Entertainment You're going to see a lot of Christmas movies on Hulu through the end of the year. 'Tis the season for the Huludays, after all. While we'll go over your Christmas options at a later date, this month's selections of the best movies on Hulu feature a new original film, Quiz Lady, as well as A Haunting in Venice, which recently finished its theatrical run. The other prominent new additions are Jumanji: Welcome to the Jungle and the comedy biopic Driven.
Need help keeping up with everything new on Hulu? Every month, we go over the greatest films that Hulu has to offer while keeping track of what's coming and going. That's why our update of the best movies on Hulu is always current. We're here to help you plan your next movie night.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
