Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix F1 Live Stream Stranger Things Season 5 Best New Movies Most Popular Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney+ UFC Live Stream Best Movies on Disney+ Home Entertainment News Animatronics attack in new trailer for Five Nights at Freddy’s By Blair Marnell Close This Halloween, the video game sensation, Five Nights at Freddy’s , is getting its own horror movie, courtesy of Universal Pictures and Blumhouse.
The Hunger Games ‘ Josh Hutcherson is headlining the film as Mike Schmidt, the hapless security guard from the first game who takes a job at a long-defunct restaurant, Freddy Fazbear’s Pizza. Think of it as Chuck E. Cheese, if the old animatronics were out to kill you after dark. Unfortunately for Mike, the first trailer for the film reveals that Freddy and his fiendish friends have an even deadlier agenda than he imagined.
The video makes it clear that Mike took this job out of financial desperation, which is also why he is taking his daughter, Abby Schmidt (Piper Rubio), to work. This turns out to be a spectacularly bad decision once the mythology behind Freddy’s is revealed. Apparently, the animatronics are possessed by the spirits of dead kids who were killed decades ago. Now Freddy Fazbear, Bonnie, Chica, and Foxy want Abby to be the latest addition to their band.
Universal Pictures Assuming that this story goes the way of other horror movies, Mike is going to have to embrace his inner action hero in order to save himself and his daughter. Fortunately, Mike may also have some allies among the living as well, because he’s going to need them.
Elizabeth Lail also stars in the film alongside Kat Conner Sterling, Mary Stuart Masterson, Matthew Lillard, Lucas Grant, Jessica Blackmore, and CoryxKenshin.
5 movies like Five Nights at Freddy’s you should watch right now 3 great PG-13 horror movies to check out if you like the Five Nights at Freddy’s movie Peacock unveils Halloween Horror lineup featuring Chucky and Five Nights at Freddy’s Emma Tammi directed the adaptation from a script she co-wrote with Scott Cawthon and Seth Cuddeback.
Five Nights at Freddy’s will haunt theaters on October 27.
Editors' Recommendations Among Us could be the next hit video game movie like Five Nights at Freddy’s. Here’s why If you want more Five Nights at Freddy’s, try these 5 horror games next Is Five Nights at Freddy’s streaming? Santa Claus unleashes season’s beatings in the trailer for Violent Night Take flight in the new trailer for Minions: The Rise of Gru Tech News Entertainment It looks like Jurassic World: Dominion won't be Universal Pictures' only summer film that features killer animals. In the first trailer for Beast, Idris Elba's Dr. Nate Daniels comes face-to-face with a murderous lion. And this big cat simply won't be placated, even though neither Nate nor his family have ever done anything to provoke it.
The trailer also introduces Sharlto Copley's Martin Battles, a good friend of the Daniels family. Nate took his teenage girls back to South Africa in an attempt to emotionally reconnect to them after their mother's death. Unfortunately, the Daniels family and Martin soon find themselves fighting for their lives. Not even hiding in a car can protect them from this bloodthirsty lion. But the king of the jungle has good reasons to hate all humans. Unfortunately, that means it's kill or be killed if Nate and his family hope to survive.
Entertainment Have you ever noticed that there's not an abundance of LGBT romantic comedies? Oh, to be sure, there have almost always been gay best friends, as well as gay and lesbian relationships among the side characters. But for films with LGBT leading characters, only the independent movie studios went for those stories ... until now. Billy Eichner took it upon himself to change that trend, and it's happening with Bros, a new LGBT romantic comedy that he co-wrote with director Nicholas Stoller, with the full backing of producer Judd Apatow and Universal Pictures.
Bros | Official NSFW Trailer [HD] Entertainment The newest trailer for Jurassic World Dominion is asking the important questions, like "Can a dinosaur truly be adorable?" or "Shouldn't the child of Blue be called Green?" Regardless, the bigger questions after this trailer are "Who stole Baby Blue? And what do they want with her?" Owen Grady (Chris Pratt) had better find out fast, because with Baby Blue gone in the wind, Momma Blue is no longer his best friend. The bond between Owen and the raptor named Blue was a key part of the last two films. But now, Blue is having some trust issues.
Jurassic World Dominion | Trailer 2 [4K] Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
