Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix F1 Live Stream Stranger Things Season 5 Best New Movies Most Popular Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney+ UFC Live Stream Best Movies on Disney+ Home Entertainment Guides Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? The Bear’s season 1 episodes, ranked By Carson Burton Close Image used with permission by copyright holder The Bear is one of the most kinetic and unique series on television, and the heat is coming back to the kitchen in season 2. The upcoming season, which premieres on Hulu on June 22, will once again see Jeremy Allen White and Ayo Edebiri cooking up masterpieces in Chicago’s River North neighborhood.
8. Hands (Episode 2) 7. Brigade (Episode 3) 6. Sheridan (Episode 5) 5. Ceres (Episode 6) 4. Dogs (Episode 4) 3. System (Episode 1) 2. Braciole (Episode 8) 1. Review (Episode 7) The first season of The Bear premiered in June 2022 to rave critical reviews and intense fan praise. The show follows Carmen “Carmy” Berzatto, a James Beard Award-winning chef, as he returns home to Chicago after the suicide of his brother. Carmy, a reserved and somewhat tortured soul himself, now takes on the mantle of managing the family business: a rundown restaurant named The Original Beef of Chicagoland.
The Bear is not a show for fun and easygoing vibes. Christopher Storer, the creator of the series, instead chooses to ramp up the show’s intensity to create a tone more reminiscent of the insane and stressful hustle-and-bustle of a professional kitchen environment. The kitchen turns into a war zone, a place where screaming and cursing are as common as the cooking itself.
The 50 best shows on Netflix in November 2023 The 10 most popular TV shows on Netflix right now 6 best TV shows you need to watch in December Even though we’ll have to wait just a bit longer to see if season 2 will live up to the first season, let’s take a look back at some of the best episodes from The Bear ‘s incredible first season.
8. Hands (Episode 2) Image used with permission by copyright holder Even The Bear ‘s weakest entries are commendable and interesting in their own ways; the show never really fails to lose its viewers from episode to episode. However, episode 2 of the show’s first season simply cannot stack up to what the other installments bring to the (kitchen) table. Episode 2 follows Carmy as he really gets into the nitty gritty of running The Original Beef: the new head chef faces resistance from his employees, the restaurant is given a horrible rating from a health inspector, and Carmy finds out his brother owed his uncle hundreds of thousands of dollars.
While Hands isn’t a bad installment at all, it has to do a lot of heavy lifting. It sets up the stakes and the logistical challenges that Carmy and Sydney will have to take on throughout the season, and it only scratches the surface at the character development that will eventually follow.
7. Brigade (Episode 3) Image used with permission by copyright holder Brigade , episode 3 of the show’s first season, signals the beginning of a turn for The Bear ‘s characters and plot. After the setup of the previous two episodes, Brigade starts to dive into its characters headfirst. Carmy attempts to better understand his late brother’s alcohol addiction by attending an Al-Anon meeting, a first step in Carmy’s character arc throughout the season.
The emotional core of The Bear ‘s first season really rests on Carmy’s relationship with both himself and his brother, and the seeds of that struggle come to light heavily in this episode. Meanwhile, the rest of the kitchen workers start to show some kinks in their hard exteriors. The staff begins to connect in their new roles and embrace Carmy’s vision, even if it’s extremely foreign to them. While Brigade isn’t doing anything outstanding, it features key baby steps for the show’s emotional stakes.
6. Sheridan (Episode 5) Image used with permission by copyright holder In Sheridan , the staff at The Original Beef is forced to improvise. From a power outage to a serious bathroom mishap, the restaurant is in full disarray. The episode showcases our characters as they are forced to solve crisis after crisis, and it highlights their relentless nature. We have seen them cursing, causing messes, and breaking stuff left and right, but Sheridan showcases that these people really, truly care about this place — even if they won’t admit it.
The episode is not only a look into our chefs as they start to show their true colors, but it’s also a great capsule of Chicago. Also, thanks to an outsized role for Fak in this episode, viewers get to delight in the bumbling yet funny Matty Matheson. Himself an accomplished chef in real life, Matheson was a key behind-the-scenes presence in making sure The Bear was authentic to the real chef experience. Without Matheson, The Bear likely wouldn’t be the same.
5. Ceres (Episode 6) Image used with permission by copyright holder Ceres serves as a great investigation into the tensions present between the characters that make up The Original Beef. From Sydney and Richie’s petty rivalry to Marcus’ intense quest to create the perfect donut, Ceres shows the flaws in each character, big and small. No character is left behind; they’re all complicated, personable, and layered personalities that hold insecurities, hopes, and dreams.
Episode 6 also holds one of the show’s most heartbreaking, yet endearing scenes when Jon Bernthal (the MCU’s Punisher from the Daredevil series ) makes a cameo as Michael, Carmy and Sugar’s late brother. Despite being such a central figure in the show’s emotional core, Bernthal only really gets one scene to make his mark. He delivers that and more, resulting in a heart-wrenching portrayal of an inherently flawed, yet lovable human being.
4. Dogs (Episode 4) Much of The Bear feels like a claustrophobic panic attack waiting to happen, but Dogs is one of the first times the show takes a bit of a step back to peek behind the curtains of the lives of our main characters. The episode follows Carmy and Richie as they cater a children’s birthday party for Cicero, Carmy’s uncle. While Dogs may not be a stress ball brought to life like the show’s other episodes, there’s a certain beauty in the episode’s ability to look into its characters without the kitchen’s chaos.
The episode also holds one of the season’s funniest moments when Richie accidentally drugs every kid at the party.
Dogs finds the kitchen staff growing closer as both friends and as a kitchen unit, and it’s a welcome look into the insecurities and flaws of our main characters.
3. System (Episode 1) Image used with permission by copyright holder The Bear ‘s pilot episode is a perfect hook. It highlights what is to come in terms of character, narrative, and tone — that is, a stressful and panic-inducing search inside the hopes and fears of a select group of characters.
System introduces Carmy into The Original Beef, where Richie and the rest of the restaurant’s stubborn staff resist Carmy’s new vision for the joint.
In order to get some additional support in the kitchen, Carmy hires Culinary Institute of America-trained chef and Chicago native Sydney Adamu. The episode perfectly envisions the series as a stressful interior look at the inner workings of a neighborhood restaurant. It delivers and sets up everything from heart-tugging relationships to annoying characters.
2. Braciole (Episode 8) Image used with permission by copyright holder The season 1 finale of The Bear is a perfect summation of everything that has come before it. After the all-out hellfire that is episode 7, Braciole serves up a welcome concluding sucker punch. The episode’s opening sequence , a seven-minute monologue from Carmy as he lays his heart on the table, is a breathtaking and heart-wrenching moment that finds beauty in life’s worst moments. White is at his best, performing his heart out and never holding back a punch.
Nearly every emotional note that was introduced throughout the series is wrapped up in Braciole in excellent fashion, and the episode is still able to incorporate the stressful chaos that defines its tone.
Braciole delivers a lot, from frustration to tears. It’s the perfect conclusion to the show’s first season, a beautifully stressful, yet endlessly earnest investigation into a group of flawed souls.
1. Review (Episode 7) Image used with permission by copyright holder Review is an all-time episode of television. The entire episode looks to be filmed in one take, a technique that can often feel gimmicky or unnatural. With Review , though, it’s extremely effective.
The episode follows the kitchen workers as they try to tackle a new preordering system that results in hundreds of orders piling in at once. What results is all-out chaos. Carmy tries to pull together his kitchen staff in order to get everything made, and tensions flare everywhere.
It’s an episode where the aesthetic of the filmmaking is as bold and kinetic as its characters and dialogue. The incendiary set of circumstances no doubt leaves many viewers almost as stressed as the chefs themselves. It’s a wonder what Review is able to accomplish with both its narrative and its tone.
The Bear thrives in its stress, and there is no greater example of that power than in Review.
All episodes of The Bear season one are available to stream on Hulu.
Editors' Recommendations The 10 most popular shows on Max right now Hundreds of classic Doctor Who episodes are now streaming on Tubi for free Paramount+ launches Tis the Season for Streaming holiday collection 7 most underrated Breaking Bad episodes ever, ranked Upload season 3’s ending, explained Entertainment In 2011, Glee creators Ryan Murphy and Brad Falchuk brought their new horror anthology series, American Horror Story, to FX. In the 12 years since its debut, American Horror Story has become one of FX's most successful shows, and it's even spawned a spinoff series on Hulu called American Horror Stories.
Hulu is also the streaming home for the 12th and current season, American Horror Story: Delicate, as well as all of the previous seasons. If you're new to the show or just looking to revisit your favorite storylines, we've put together this list of all of the American Horror Story seasons, ranked from worst to first. But if this is the first time you're checking out the show, then you're probably not prepared for just how far it can go.
12. American Horror Story: Hotel Entertainment HBO's Succession is an award-winning satirical comedy-drama series that kept fans glued to their screens every single week to see what the dysfunctional Roy family would do next. Created by Jesse Armstrong, the show's best episodes have won numerous accolades for reflecting the high-stakes drama, political intrigue, and explosive events related to Waystar RoyCo, the global media and entertainment conglomerate each of the family members wants control over.
While massively popular episodes like All the Bells Say and Connor's Wedding have been talked about endlessly by fans and critics alike, there's no shortage of underrated Succession episodes that deserve more attention. These often overlooked storylines may not be as exciting or eventful as other episodes in the series, but they provide important moments of character development, reveal small but critical details, and are crucial to the overall narrative of the show.
7. Mass in Time of War (Season 3, Episode 2) Entertainment The Morning Show has always done a good job of telling stories that mirror real life, and season 3 is no different. While the season ends in such a way that could easily wrap up the story for all the characters (albeit with a few loose ends), fans will be pleased to know that the Apple TV+ original series, one of its first, has been renewed for a fourth season.
The story in season 3 takes things in new directions, once again. It picks up following the end of the COVID-19 pandemic. The episodes touch on everything from the Fourth Estate and the future of legacy media to journalistic integrity and topical political issues, all leading to an explosive end.
The state of UBA Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
