Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix F1 Live Stream Stranger Things Season 5 Best New Movies Most Popular Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney+ UFC Live Stream Best Movies on Disney+ Home Entertainment Guides The best live-action Disney remakes, ranked By Carson Burton Close Disney is the king of recycling its own property, with remakes of everything from Beauty and the Beast to Lady and the Tramp.
 Disney live-action remakes have almost become a genre unto themselves, with each one of them varying in their respective effectiveness.
7. The Lion King (2019) 6. Aladdin (2019) 5. The Little Mermaid (2023) 4. Cruella (2021) 3. The Jungle Book (2016) 2. Cinderella (2015) 1. Pete’s Dragon (2016) The newest Disney remake, The Little Mermaid , just hit theaters on Friday, bringing yet another installment to Disney’s growing library of remakes. Director Rob Marshall’s The Little Mermaid will make it the third live-action remake in the past two years, joining the ranks of Robert Zemeckis’ poorly-reviewed Pinocchio and David Lowery’s straight-to-streaming Peter Pan & Wendy.
 Whether you like it or not, Disney remakes are here to stay. Even Moana , which hit theaters in 2016, is already getting a live-action remake with star Dwayne “The Rock” Johnson returning.
The jury is still out on if The Little Mermaid remake sinks or swims, but the vast number of other Disney remakes have proven successful at the box office despite mixed critical responses. It’s difficult to justify and remake such beloved classics, as there will always be intense adoration for the original animated stories. While many live-action remakes don’t come close to living up to their original source material, a certain few stand above the rest.
The 10 best Star Wars action scenes, ranked The 7 best Tom Cruise action movies, ranked Is the 2023 live-action The Little Mermaid remake streaming? 7. The Lion King (2019) A FUTURE KING IS BORN – In Disney’s all-new “The Lion King,” Simba idolizes his father, King Mufasa, and takes to heart his own royal destiny. Featuring JD McCrary and Donald Glover as young Simba and Simba, “The Lion King” roars into U.S. theaters on July 19, 2019. ©2019 Disney Enterprises, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
Image used with permission by copyright holder In 2019, Disney’s The Lion King remake showcased the possibilities of CGI.
 The film, a remake of the classic 1994 feature of the same name, is a faithful retelling of the beloved original story, with its main draw being its technological wonder. The animals featured in director Jon Favreau’s The Lion King — from lions to hyenas to meerkats — never fail to astonish. However, the movie’s wonder pretty much stops there. Favreau’s remake doesn’t live up to the magic of the original film, with its hyper-realism working to its detriment.
It’s difficult to feel for the largely expression-less animal characters, and it’s jarring to see an innately fantastical story try to play itself off as “realistic.” The original The Lion King infused a Shakespearean tale into lovable, heart-wrenching characters; the remake’s focus on realism and noted lack of any humans fail to elicit that same wonder.
6. Aladdin (2019) Image used with permission by copyright holder Will Smith as the Genie. Those five words encapsulate much of what makes the 2019 Aladdin so watchable, as the star’s outrageous performance as the big blue magic man is one that has to be seen to be believed. Smith, who in 2019 was known more as a movie star than the guy that slapped Chris Rock at the Oscars , may look a bit funky when he’s in full-on Genie mode thanks to some questionable CGI, but there’s no doubt that Smith’s charisma in the role is perfection.
Aside from Smith, Aladdin also features good performances from leads Mena Massoud as Aladdin and Naomi Scott as Princess Jasmine. However, the remake, directed by Guy Ritchie , is never really able to capture the magic of the original. The film plays like an uninspired retelling rather than an interesting evolution of the source material, and it’s difficult to dismiss a few misguided and problematic decisions by Disney. From the addition of new character Prince Anders, who is white and played by Billy Magnussen, to reports that white extras were made up with brown makeup to blend into their scenery , 2019’s Aladdin carries a hefty amount of baggage.
5. The Little Mermaid (2023) The newly-released remake of The Little Mermaid sees Halle Bailey take on Ariel, a brilliant casting decision that almost single-handedly saves this film from being one to forget. The 2023 remake, directed by Rob Marshall, turns the original 1989 The Little Mermaid into a two-hour-plus story filled to the brim with stars. Bailey, in her first-ever leading role, injects the new film with an emotional passion and friendliness that can’t be understated. And, of course, her singing is stunning. However, Marshall’s The Little Mermaid fails to live up to the wonderfully vibrant world that the original animation was able to create. Aside from a few fun moments such as the performances of Under the Sea and Poor Unfortunate Souls , it’s still unclear if the new movie did enough to justify its existence.
4. Cruella (2021) Image used with permission by copyright holder Emma Stone becomes a punk princess in 2021’s Cruella , which is more of an expansion than a page-for-page remake. The film follows Stone as Cruella de Vil, an edgy aspiring clothing designer warring with her cruel boss. While it may be a bit hard to believe that Stone’s Cruella will go on to skin puppies as the villain of 101 Dalmatians , the La La Land actor is undoubtedly a star in Cruella.
Alongside Emma Thompson as The Baroness, Cruella provides a new, different take on an iconic character. The film dives headfirst into its punk, visually intoxicating story filled to the brim with lavish costumes and bombastic performances.
Cruella is a fun, bold entry into the Disney library, but it’s hard to separate how the film’s images of rebellion are used inside of a conforming, mass-marketable platform. Bold strides may have been taken in the movie’s aesthetics and performances, but it’s easy to watch Cruella with one eyebrow raised.
3. The Jungle Book (2016) Image used with permission by copyright holder The original The Jungle Book is a classic, but the 2016 remake might just be one too.
The Jungle Book , although it is not a flawless movie, does everything one would want a good live-action remake to do. The movie does everything that 2019’s The Lion King tried to do; it creates an astonishing world full of personable characters.
The dense tropical environments in The Jungle Book is wonderfully rendered , resulting in a lush and expansive world that lies somewhere on the border between reality and fantasy. While the film is still exceedingly loyal to its source material, it is able to hold its audience due to its heart and personality. Bill Murray’s Baloo and Idris Elba’s Shere Khan are perfect voice performances in essentially opposite fashions, and young lead Neel Sethi does just enough to make The Jungle Book soar.
2. Cinderella (2015) Image used with permission by copyright holder Director Kenneth Branagh’s 2015 remake of Cinderella is one of the few Disney remakes that updates the original story with an emotional and aesthetic liveliness that rivals that of the original movie. The film, which perfectly casts Lily James as Cinderella, feels like a fairy tale from top to bottom. Dante Ferretti’s wonderfully elegant yet playful production design plays beautifully alongside the movie’s eye-popping costumes, courtesy of designer Sandy Powell.
Branagh and James’ performance gives the character of Cinderella a loving personality and emotional depth that the first film sorely lacks, resulting in a powerful rendition of a Disney classic. And Tár ‘s Cate Blanchett’s wicked portrayal of Lady Tremaine is hard to beat. In the land of remakes, it’s hard to beat Cinderella.
1. Pete’s Dragon (2016) The original Pete’s Dragon from 1977 may not be as beloved and revered as stories like Mulan , The Little Mermaid , or Beauty and the Beast , but that doesn’t hold back the remake from creating a touching tale of friendship, family, and adventure. David Lowery, known for his work on movies like The Green Knight and Peter Pan & Wendy , directs this 2016 remake starring Bryce Dallas Howard, Robert Redford, and Oakes Fegley.
Pete’s Dragon , even though it does not include any songs, expands the original story past its own wonder. From beginning to end, this story of a boy and his pet dragon is filled to the brim with heart. Elliot, Pete’s dragon friend in the forest, is one of the most heart-wrenching and astonishing live-action creatures to date, and the film plays upon his and Pete’s relationship to tug at the heartstrings of the audience. It’s difficult to make a remake simultaneously engaging, fun, and meaningful, but Lowery hits the nail on the head.
Pete’s Dragon is beautiful. It proves that, sometimes, a remake really can be a worthwhile, meaningful endeavor.
You can stream all these live-action remakes on Disney+.
Editors' Recommendations 7 best Liam Neeson action movies, ranked 7 best Jason Statham action movies, ranked The best action scenes in the Mission: Impossible movies, ranked The best Keanu Reeves action movies, ranked The most likable Disney villains, ranked Entertainment If you’re looking for action on Disney+, then you’ve come to the right place. Marvel and Star Wars movies could give you all of the action you would ever need. Fortunately, Disney+ doesn’t stop there, and there are a number of animated and live-action Disney projects which hold up as great action flicks in their own right. For the moment, there are only three R-rated films on Disney+, but the rest are fairly family-friendly. So keep that in mind when making selections from our list of the best action movies on Disney+ right now.
If you like bargains, you should consider the Disney Bundle, which features Disney+, Hulu, and ESPN+ for just $14 a month. That's a really great deal for action movies, especially considering you'll get everything below, as well as all of the great action flicks in Hulu's catalog.
We’ve also rounded up the best action movies on Amazon Prime Video, the best action movies on Hulu, and the best action movies on Netflix if you don't find what you’re looking for on Disney+.
Entertainment November has been a great month for movies at Netflix, with the premiere of David Fincher's The Killer, and recent box office hits like Insidious: The Red Door and Spider-Man: Across the Spider-Verse. This week, the new additions include The Impossible, a 2012 survival thriller that has already landed on the list of the 10 most popular movies on Netflix. For younger viewers, Minions is also heating up the charts despite the pending departure of the other films in the franchise at the end of the month.
There's only one holiday weekend left in November, so what's the best way to stay on top of everything new on Netflix? Why, we are, of course. Our list of the best movies on Netflix right now is updated every Friday, even on holiday weekends, so you can easily find something for every movie lover in your life.
Entertainment Summer is long over, and the fall season is in full swing. It's now late 2023, and just about everyone is subscribed to Netflix and Hulu. But would you be surprised if I told you one of the most underrated streaming services around is Tubi? The upstart streamer has tons of new and old TV shows from every decade and every genre imaginable. Want to watch the buzziest series that aired on Max? Tubi has it. Are you feeling nostalgic about that old movie or cartoon you used to watch as a kid in the '80s or '90s? Chances are, Tubi has it.
Tubi has so much content that it can be hard to choose which shows and films are worth your time. Digital Trends is here to help you sort out which ones are worth watching. Even though the streaming service is free, time is valuable, and no one wants to waste it watching subpar content.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
