Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: What is Roku? Best Roku TVs How to Pair a Roku Remote The Roku Channel How to Use AirPlay on Roku Best Roku Devices Star Button on Roku Remote Home Audio / Video Guides Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? The Digital Trends guide to FAST streaming services By Phil Nickinson Close When you talk about the best streaming services , you typically talk about video-on-demand (VOD) services like Netflix. Or Disney+. Or Amazon Prime Video. Or Hulu. And for good reason — they have a ton of paying subscribers. Netflix alone is closing in on a quarter-billion. Disney+ is about halfway there.
Amazon Freevee LG Channels Plex Pluto TV Samsung TV Plus Sling Freestream The Roku Channel Tubi Vizio WatchFree+ Vudu Xumo Play And while the numbers drop off a good bit from there, another flavor of streaming should constitute a good bit of the discussion. FAST services — that’s the industry acronym for free advertising-based streaming television — continue to grow both in numbers and in popularity. Think of FAST like the streaming version of broadcast TV, or your cable box. Shows are on at the same time for everyone, and everyone is watching the same thing, with ads. Only unlike YouTube TV or Hulu With Live TV , you don’t have to pay anything upfront. It’s all supported by advertising — you just don’t get the “good” channels like you will on the paid services.
FAST services make sense for pretty much everyone involved. The viewer (that’s you) gets even more content, for free. And we’re not just talking B movies and imports, though there is plenty of that. They’re good for the content owners because it lets them double dip that much more. Make a movie once, stream it from even more places. It’s good for advertisers, too, because brands and products get out in front of more people. And it’s good for whoever owns the FAST service, assuming that they’re bringing in more ad revenue than it costs to license and stream the content in the first place.
How much money? A lot. How many eyeballs? A lot. Which is why there are so many options these days. That’s good for you, the viewer, even if it makes finding something particular a little tricky. Here, we detail the major FAST options available. Happy watching.
Phil Nickinson/Digital Trends Amazon Freevee Freevee was born from IMBD.tv. The latter — born from the Internet Movie Database also owned by Amazon — launched in January 2019 under the name Freedive. (You’re forgiven if you’ve forgotten that name.) That’s a lot of changes in a relatively short amount of time, but Freevee looks like it might stick around for a little while. And that’s good because there’s a lot new on Freevee every month.
While everything on Freeve is, as the name implies, free, you’ll still have to have an Amazon account to watch anything. The good news is that you’re able to watch on pretty much any modern device that’s connected to the internet, from a phone to a streaming stick, to gaming consoles, phones, and tablets.
And Freevee has found a place front and center on Amazon Fire TV devices. It was integrated directly into the live guide in May 2023, so even if you don’t subscribe to any other MPVDs (aka live streaming TV), it’ll look like something’s on.
Freevee is available in the U.S., the U.K., Germany, and Austria.
Phil Nickinson/Digital Trends LG Channels As dumb televisions gave way to smart TVs, some major manufacturers got smart themselves and have largely brought their operating system in-house. LG is one of those, with its webOS-based systems. And among all the apps available is LG Channels.
While webOS is all LG, LG Channels itself actually is a rebranded instance of Xumo (which you’ll find at the end of this list for alphabetical reasons).
LG Channels has more than 100 free channels available, and they’re presented right alongside anything else in the built-in channel guide. So if you’re piping broadcast or cable TV into your LG TV, everything will be found in one place.
To get LG Channels, you’ll need to be on an LG TV that’s running webOS 3.5 or newer.
Phil Nickinson/Digital Trends Plex Plex mostly has been known as a super-powerful-but-lightweight server that lets you stream movies stored on your local network (that you’ve legally obtained, of course) onto practically any device, whether you’re at home or on the road. But in recent years it quietly got into the FAST game with a couple hundred free streaming channels, presented in a linear guide.
The content runs the gamut, though you probably wouldn’t consider most of it to be first-tier. But you will find something to at least occupy your attention for a little while. And if you’re running a digital turner or antenna through Plex, you’ll get all your channels in one place, which is cool. Plus Plex has the ability to skip commercials.
The FAST channels are all available without the paid Plex Pass subscription, which is nice, and you’re able to watch on virtually any modern device.
Phil Nickinson/Digital Trends Pluto TV Pluto TV is one of the OGs of the FAST industry after its founding in 2013. For a long time it mostly had the sort of obscure channels FAST services used to be known for — basically shows that might make up a random YouTube channel, or some long-forgotten broadcast series.
That all changed a couple of years later after Pluto TV signed deals with Hulu, making available shows from ABC, NBC, and Fox. Other licensing continued after that, and the service continued to grow, hitting more than 15 million users in late 2017. Pluto TV expanded into Europe a year later.
But things really got interesting in 2019 when Viacom purchased Pluto TV for $340 million. That brought the full might of the CBS universe into the conversation, and a wealth of new content came with it, including from such networks as Paramount Pictures, BET, Comedy Central, MTV, Nickelodeon, and more. Since then, Viacom morphed into ViacomCBS, and now Paramount.
As of May 2023, PlutoTV was regarded as the largest FAST service globally with some 80 million monthly active users. It’s available on any modern device.
Samsung TV Plus Like its South Korean brethren at LG, Samsung also has its own operating system for its televisions and Galaxy line of mobile devices. And like LG it also has its own FAST service, which provides a couple hundred channels to its customers, for free.
And, well, that’s it. You get thousands of movies and shows on demand in addition to the live channels.
If you’ve got a relatively modern Samsung TV, you should be good to go. Same, too, for Galaxy phones and tablets. (If you have something a little older you may need to download the app first.) Note that you don’t have to have a Samsung account to start watching. (Though if you’re on a Samsung phone or tablet, you likely already do.) But you will get some extra features, including the ability to continue watching something where you left off, favorite channels, the ability to edit channels, set watch reminders, and create watchlists.
Phil Nickinson/Digital Trends Sling Freestream Sling is the third-largest live streaming TV service in the U.S., with a little more than 2 million subscribers. So it makes sense that it’s augmenting that placement with its own FAST service.
Sling Freestream gets you more than 335 channels with more than 40,000 shows and movies available on demand, from all the usual suspects. Freestream is completely separate from the traditional Sling TV experience.
 It’s not a free trial, and you’re not signing up for Sling TV if you watch Freestream. But you will be watching via the Sling TV app.
You don’t have to even have a Sling TV login to watch. But if you do you’ll get more personalized results, user profiles, and the ability to have favorite channels.
Sling Freestream is available on most modern streaming devices, as well as smart TVs, and in a web browser.
Phil Nickinson/Digital Trends The Roku Channel Roku is the biggest streaming platform in the U.S. and No. 2 in the rest of the world. And for most of its life, it has been platform agnostic. It was born as an easier way to watch Netflix on any dumb TV, and the app platform grew from there. But in recent years Roku — which always has had display advertising to offset the cost of its inexpensive hardware — has become far more profitable as an advertising service.
So it made perfect sense that Roku started its own FAST service with The Roku Channel , in addition to offering movies and shows for rent and purchase.
The Roku Channel should be considered in the same tier as Pluto TV, thanks to the sheer breadth of channels available (more than 350 of the linear variety), as well as the quality of content licensed. And on top of that is all of the Roku Originals that Roku has gotten itself into, either with its acquit ion of content from the now-defunct Quibi service, or shows and movies it’s done on its own.
The Roku Channel is found on Roku devices, of course, from the low-cost streaming sticks to the hugely popular Roku TV lineups. The Roku Channel also is available on Samsung TVs, on Amazon Fire TV devices, and at TheRokuChannel.com.
Phil Nickinson/Digital Trends Tubi Paramount has Pluto TV, and Fox has Tubi , which in addition to being a major FAST option also is a member of the AVOD community. (That’s advertising-based video on demand.) There’s a good chance that if there’s some old or obscure movie or series you want to watch, you can find it on Tubi. The same goes, though, for any relatively recent content from the broader Fox networks. Tubi also licenses content from competing networks such as Paramount, MGM, and Lionsgate.
And Tubi got into the game during the Super Bowl festivities, too, with ancillary content that ultimately took a back seat to a brilliant in-game commercial that had everyone wondering what had just happened to their TV.
Tubi is estimated to be a little smaller than Pluto TV, but not by a whole lot. (It hasn’t given any official numbers in some time.) In April 2023 the company underwent a fairly major internal reorganization and formed the Tubi Media Group, bringing together the content side with advertising and digital expertise. (In other words, Fox is serious about FAST.) Tubi is available on any modern device, from mobile devices to smart displays, smart TV, and online at tubi.tv.
Vizio WatchFree+ Like LG and Samsung, Vizio also has its own operating system on its televisions. And that OS — called SmartCast — has its own FAST service called WatchFree+.
You know the story by now — a few hundred channels sourced from all sorts of places. (Though a quick look at the channel guide and you’ll quickly notice that Pluto TV is featured prominently, so suffice it to say you’ll find all sorts of Pluto/Paramount content on board.) WatchFree+ boasts more than 260 free channels, with more than 5,000 movies and shows available on demand. It’s currently only available in the U.S., and only on Vizio televisions.
Phil Nickinson/Digital Trends Vudu Vudu is another one of those longtime services that have been eclipsed by the likes of Tubi and Pluto TV. It mostly has been known as a place other than Apple or Google to rent or purchase movies. But it’s also part of the FAST universe.
Walmart purchased Vudu back in 2010, and in doing so killed off a relatively quiet partnership Vudu had with AVN, known as the After Dark section. A decade later Vudu was unloaded to NBCUniversal’s Fandango Media, which is where things stand today, with the service living on under the Vudu name.
Vudu still will take your money, but the extensive FAST section is full of old-school shows and movies, which makes it a fun option for anyone looking to go back in time a few decades.
Phil Nickinson/Digital Trends Xumo Play And then there’s Xumo. Or, rather, Xumo Play. Now owned by Comcast and Charter, Xumo is a name that’s been around for years, but it’s always been in the sort of breath that includes “Oh, right. That’s a thing.” It’s included with Comcast’s X1 platform, and you’ll recall that LG is using it with its LG Channels service.
The Xumo Play name is reserved for the FAST version of Xumo. There’s also the Xumo Stream Box, which is coming to Comcast’s broadband customers, and Class TV, which is a low-cost line of televisions from Hisense, available at Walmart.
In any event, we’re talking a couple of hundred free linear channels with the traditional Xumo FAST service.
Editors' Recommendations Apple TV has quietly been on board the FAST train all this time Entertainment Amazon Roku Samsung Tubi Mobile Google's popular line of Pixel devices includes smartphones, tablets, smartwatches, and wireless earbuds -- and they're all available with eye-catching discounts in this year's Black Friday deals. if you've had an eye on any one of them, you should take advantage of the offers that retailers have rolled out for the shopping holiday, and you need to act fast because stocks will run out quickly due to high demand. To help you out, we've rounded up our favorite Google Pixel Black Friday deals below.
Google Pixel Watch Black Friday deals The Google Pixel Watch 2 is already out, which means the Google Pixel Watch is a prime candidate for a discount on Black Friday. It's still a perfectly capable smartwatch though, even with the launch of its successor, as it runs on Google's Wear OS for access to a wide range of apps and health-monitoring features on your wrist. You need to push through with your purchase as soon as possible though, as stocks are already probably running low on most Black Friday smartwatch deals.
Audio / Video If you've been thinking about buying new headphones or earbuds, the good news is that you already have access to massive discounts through early Black Friday deals from retailers like Amazon, Best Buy, and Walmart. There's a lot of options to choose from, ranging from budget models to high-end devices, so to help with your decision, we've rounded up the best Black Black Friday headphone and earbud deals that you can shop right now. You're going to have to hurry with your purchase though, as we're not sure how much time is remaining for these offers. If you see a bargain that you like, we recommended that you push through with the transaction as soon as you can.
Best Black Friday headphone deals For shoppers who have been thinking about taking advantage of headphone deals, don't let the discounts of Black Friday end without buying a new pair. You may want to check out our roundup of the best headphones for recommendations on what to purchase, as well as our headphone buying guide to figure out the features that will be important to you. There are so many headphones on sale across the different retailers, but we've gathered our favorite offers below to try to help you narrow down your choices. Some of our favorite are JBL and Beats Black Friday deals. It won't be easy, but this is a good place to start as any.
Audio / Video In the spirit of the holiday shopping season, SVS Sound is offering some incredible deals -- and by incredible, we mean record-breaking for the brand. SVS Sound has actually never participated in Black Friday festivities before, and they may never do it again. So, this may be your only chance to save this big. You name it, it's discounted. There are speakers, subwoofers, sound systems, and more discounted. Take the Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
