Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix F1 Live Stream Stranger Things Season 5 Best New Movies Most Popular Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney+ UFC Live Stream Best Movies on Disney+ Home Entertainment Features And Just Like That… Sex And The City came back to life By David Caballero Close Sex and the City is a landmark of American television. Debuting in the summer of 1998, the show revolutionized the comedic landscape of the new millennium, providing a refreshing and unashamed look into the sexual lives and desires of four women in their early thirties. S ex and the City broke boundaries and challenged expectations, cementing its network, HBO, as the home for groundbreaking and prestigious stories.
A tumultuous legacy Second wind A familiar chaos Let them all talk What comes next? The show went on for six seasons, attracting mostly positive reviews from critics and audiences throughout most of its run. Anchored by a chaotic but irresistible performance from Sarah Jessica Parker, Sex and the City quickly became a phenomenon. The word “iconic” is used freely and carelessly these days, but in SatC ‘s case, it’s genuinely fitting. The series challenged the audience’s perceptions, daring them to take a closer look at subjects previously considered taboo. The women of Sex and the City were bold and open about their sexuality; even prudish Charlotte was considerably more risqué than the typical leading lady of primetime television.
A tumultuous legacy Image used with permission by copyright holder Following its conclusion in the winter of 2004, Sex and the City entered a privileged place in the cultural zeitgeist, one populated by only a select few shows and movies that audiences simply refuse to forget. They clung to it, missing it by rewatching it and keeping it alive in the collective imaginary. Even those who had never seen an episode of Sex and the City knew Carrie Bradshaw. Fans’ devotion to the show succeeded in bringing it back for a movie, reuniting much of the original cast. 2008’s Sex and the City received mixed-to-positive reviews but it was an overwhelming commercial success, grossing $418.8 million worldwide. Logically, a sequel quickly followed.
HBO Max renews And Just Like That… for a second season Enough has been said about the trainwreck that is Sex and the City 2 , a movie so bad it derailed the franchise for years and forever tainted its already diminished reputation.
Sex and the City 2 is bad, and not so-bad-its-good; it’s so-bad-I-hate-these-characters-now. Many believed the franchise wouldn’t come back from such a spectacular failure, and for years, it seemed like they were right. Things got worse over the years as the long-rumored behind-the-scenes feud between Parker and Kim Cattrall came to light. Both actresses had a very public back-and-forth that culminated with Cattrall making a scathing Instagram post that made her sentiments more than clear. With two of the main actresses on terrible terms and the franchise’s image at an all-time low, things looked good and done for Sex and the City.
And then, And Just Like That … happened.
Second wind Image used with permission by copyright holder When news of a sequel to Sex and the City first came out in December 2020, eyebrows raised and eyes rolled. Many saw it as a shameless attempt to bring some much-needed name content into HBO’s struggling streaming service, HBO Max.
 Indeed, it’s hard not to see And Just Like That … as a blatant attempt to shore up HBO Max’s subscription numbers; why else would they resuscitate a franchise whose popularity was at an all-time low? It wasn’t just Sex and the City 2 or Parker and Cattrall’s feud. In the years since the terrible second movie, numerous video essays and think pieces came out reassessing Sex and the City and its legacy. The character of Carrie Bradshaw, in particular, attracted heated criticism, with many criticizing her as selfish, self-destructive, and an awful friend. The series itself was also a target for condemnation, with fans and critics calling out its lack of diversity and surprisingly conservative and, at times, prudish views on sex and sexuality.
So why resurrect an already controversial property at a time when people were more ready than ever to dissect, analyze, and rip apart every part of it? Well, because of that, precisely. And dissect, analyze, and rip apart they did, tuning in, whether to watch or hate-watch, or perhaps a bit of both, not knowing what to expect from this new and apparently self-aware Sex and the City.
What they got was a Frankenstein of sorts.
And Just Like That … is not Sex and the City , for better and worse. It features the same characters and revisits some of the same themes, but its essence is different. Once vibrant and full of promises, the city is now gloomy, dull, and surprisingly melancholic. Once unapologetically horny and proud of it, the show is now demure and even safe in terms of sexual experimentation. In Sex and the City , the girls dealt with life’s many disappointments, but they remained optimistic, hopeful even; they were wandering, but they weren’t lost. However, they might be in And Just Like That… , facing unexpected situations that disrupt their absurdly privileged lives and handling them with varying degrees of success.
Because these are new times, And Just Like That … also came with a healthy dose of “woke” changes that attempted to right the original series’ many wrongs. Charlotte’s daughter comes out as nonbinary, and the girls all receive one POC friend each. However, the biggest change is in Miranda, who starts an affair with divisive stand-up comedian Che Diaz, eventually leaving Steve for them.
A familiar chaos Image used with permission by copyright holder These narrative choices were controversial from the get-go, with the audience becoming divided. However, this chaos is nothing new for the franchise; the original Sex and the City wasn’t universally acclaimed despite being an awards darling and received mixed reviews throughout much of its run. Still, the franchise’s real power lies in its ability to strike a nerve with its audience. Fans and critics passionately discussed the series throughout its ninety-four-episode run, and they did the same with And Just Like That… , with some tearing it apart with seeing hatred and others trying to defend it as a welcome and necessary update to an undeniably dated franchise. In doing so, they kept And Just Like That… alive in social media and the pop-culture vocabulary, thus injecting some much-needed vitality to a franchise on life support.
And Just Like That … wasn’t the roar that brought Sex and the City back to life, so much as a very loud scream in a very crowded room. Still, it was loud enough for people to hear it; they might’ve not understood its message, mainly because the show itself wasn’t exactly sure of what it was trying to say, but at least they listened to the words and repeated them. And in times like these, shows must spark a conversation if they want to survive.
And survive it did.
And Just Like That … made audiences fall back into the Carrie Bradshaw trap. They got frustrated with and angry at her, wondering how this woman was capable of remaining unchanged for twenty-plus years; however, that’s exactly the type of conversation that Carrie Bradshaw invites. She is a complicated character, hero and villain, likable one moment and ridiculously unsympathetic the next. Carrie is imperfect and messy, inviting valid criticism, yet there’s a charm in her many flaws, an almost magnetic appeal that makes it hard to actively root against her.
Carrie holds a place of honor in television; she’s the all-seeing, all-knowing central figure of her show, in a way few other protagonists are. Carrie’s world revolves around her, to the point where it’s almost like she is writing, not only her story but those of her friends, too. She is television’s ultimate writer, an almost mythical figure who wills her dreams and desires to life with a few well-chosen words. In many ways, she is New York itself: Loud, selfish, messy, and constantly moving.
Let them all talk Image used with permission by copyright holder So if Carrie’s story was that she would always be the same, and with the noticeable absence of one Samantha Jones, then it was up to Miranda and Charlotte, themselves cornerstones of the franchise, to keep the series fresh and innovative. Alas, fans reacted very differently to their storylines.
Whereas Charlotte was still Charlotte for the most part, and her arc followed a logical progression from how the original Sex and the City left her, Miranda was another thing entirely. Her character seemed like a completely different person; gone was the cynical and staunchly independent lawyer, replaced with a desperate and needy woman who actively hurt those closest to her and showed no remorse.
Fans and critics reacted divisively to Miranda’s storyline, but at least they reacted. Recent revivals and reboots of previously acclaimed shows have fared considerably worse, becoming nearly irrelevant before they even air their entire seasons.
Will & Grace , Murphy Brown , and Mad About You , giants during their original airings, failed to make an impression in modern-day audiences, fizzling away into oblivion almost embarrassingly.
Yet, And Just Like That… prevailed, sparking a conversation many other shows would kill to have. The fashion, of course, received considerable attention, with Carrie’s outfits getting examined by multiple blogs and outlets.
 Rock’s storyline attracted both positive and negative criticism, as did Charlotte’s reaction. And let’s not forget the many sarcastic pieces about Che Diaz, by far the most divisive character in the show. Sure, not all think pieces were positive – some were overtly critical – but they were still engaging with the show, caring enough to explain why they hated it.
Samantha Jones would say that all publicity is good publicity, and in a way, she might be right. Television is a brutal and ruthless place, and infamy is the sole salvation for one-to-many projects. Still, And Just Like That … proved that Sex and the City still had legions of devoted and forgiving fans, and for every tweet that criticized it, there were two that defended it. In the age of binging, few current shows inspire that kind of loyalty, further proving Sex and the City as a relic of a bygone era that inspires both derision and respect.
What comes next? Image used with permission by copyright holder And Just Like That… finished its run in early February with an ending that was everything but conclusive. It placed the characters on a clear path for a more exciting and compelling story, inviting further criticism for seeming like a stepping stone on its way to better things. Still, its ending was so promising — hinting it would go back to the Sex and the City fans know and love — that it’s hard not to consider it a success. It achieved what it set out to do and didn’t die in the process. Furthermore, it survived its two biggest challenges – proving that its formula could work in 2022’s complicated television landscape and without the fan-favorite character of Samantha Jones.
Their freshman effort did solid numbers, per what little information HBO released to the public. The series’ rich history and its affiliation with the Sex and the City brand inherently make it one of the best shows on HBO Max , meaning casual and hesitant viewers will surely keep discovering it in the following weeks.
It should come as no surprise that And Just Like That … was just recently renewed for a second season.
 And why shouldn’t it come back for another round of vintage cosmos, designer fashion, and woke posturing? It successfully provided its franchise with something no money can buy: Cultural relevance. It might lack the prestige that the original Sex and the City had, but it’s clear audiences still care about miss Bradshaw and will tune in to see her doing what she does best: screw things up. Welcome back, Carrie. Not everyone will admit it, but we’ve missed you.
Editors' Recommendations The Flight Attendant: Cassie Bowden, the millennial Carrie Bradshaw Features HBO Max Entertainment November has been a great month for movies at Netflix, with the premiere of David Fincher's The Killer, and recent box office hits like Insidious: The Red Door and Spider-Man: Across the Spider-Verse. This week, the new additions include The Impossible, a 2012 survival thriller that has already landed on the list of the 10 most popular movies on Netflix. For younger viewers, Minions is also heating up the charts despite the pending departure of the other films in the franchise at the end of the month.
There's only one holiday weekend left in November, so what's the best way to stay on top of everything new on Netflix? Why, we are, of course. Our list of the best movies on Netflix right now is updated every Friday, even on holiday weekends, so you can easily find something for every movie lover in your life.
Entertainment Summer is long over, and the fall season is in full swing. It's now late 2023, and just about everyone is subscribed to Netflix and Hulu. But would you be surprised if I told you one of the most underrated streaming services around is Tubi? The upstart streamer has tons of new and old TV shows from every decade and every genre imaginable. Want to watch the buzziest series that aired on Max? Tubi has it. Are you feeling nostalgic about that old movie or cartoon you used to watch as a kid in the '80s or '90s? Chances are, Tubi has it.
Tubi has so much content that it can be hard to choose which shows and films are worth your time. Digital Trends is here to help you sort out which ones are worth watching. Even though the streaming service is free, time is valuable, and no one wants to waste it watching subpar content.
Entertainment Rather than waiting for the Thanksgiving holiday weekend, Apple TV+ and Netflix dropped two of their biggest shows of the fall this week. Netflix's The Crown kicked off its sixth and final season with four new episodes, while the Apple TV+ Godzilla-adjacent series Monarch: Legacy of Monster, dropped its first two episodes this week, with new episodes arriving weekly thereafter. Also this week, Scott Pilgrim Takes Off hits Netflix, while Max gets in on the act this week by premiering the second season of Julia.
Netflix, Amazon Prime Video, Hulu, Max, Apple TV+, Disney+, Paramount+, and Peacock still have new shows coming for the rest of November, including a handful arriving next week. But if you've been thinking about cutting back on your streaming bill, then perhaps you should consider signing up for the ad-supported tiers. In the meantime, keep reading for our weekly roundup of the best new shows to stream.
When you're done here, check out the best new movies to stream this week, as well as the best shows on Netflix, best shows on Hulu, best shows on Amazon Prime Video, and best shows on Disney+.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
