Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Netflix Original Movies Best Comedies on Netflix Best Netflix Original Series Best Anime on Netflix Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Fantasy Movies on Netflix Home Entertainment Guides Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? 3 best rom-coms of 2023 so far By Joe Allen Close Amazon Studios / Amazon Studios The romantic comedy is not what it used to be. The genre used to be a regular feature at the box office , and we could almost always count on getting at least one good one a year.
While that may no longer be the case, that doesn’t mean that the genre is totally dead, as 2023 has produced a couple of well-above-average rom-coms. We highlight the three best from the year so far below: Rye Lane (2023) A totally thorough and deeply charming rom-com following two people who explore one particular neighborhood in London together, Rye Lane is both deeply witty and wonderfully colorful. The movie follows the two through a single wild night that they share together, in which they bond about their lives, and hide elements of the truth from one another.
The 50 best movies on Netflix right now (November 2023) Best new movies to stream on Netflix, Hulu, Prime Video, Max (HBO), and more The best rom-coms on Amazon Prime right now Because the central performers are so captivating, and have such electric chemistry, Rye Lane flies by, so much so that you may find yourself wanting to watch it over and over, which exactly what a great rom com should inspire.
Rye Lane is streaming on Hulu.
You People (2023) Although it wasn’t all that well reviewed, there’s plenty about You People that makes it worthy of recommendation. With an all-star cast that includes Jonah Hill, Eddie Murphy, Julia Louis-Dreyfuss, and many more, this Netflix original movie follows a young couple whose families come together and have to reckon with the many differences between them.
It’s a movie about the many different cultures within the American experience, and while it’s far from the first movie to take on this topic, the cast is more than talented enough to sell the weaker jokes in the script.
You People is not perfect, but it’s certainly worth watching for any rom-com fan.
You People is streaming on Netflix.
Red White & Royal Blue (2023) Telling the story of two star-crossed lovers with high-profile lives, Red, White & Royal Blue was an enormous success almost the second it dropped on Amazon Prime Video.
 The film tells the story of the first son as he falls in love with a British prince, and the two decide to keep their relationship a secret because of their public-facing roles.
The movie is, in many ways, a totally conventional rom-com, which means it’s filled with broad accents and plenty of genuinely entertaining set pieces. Thanks to the charming performances from its two leads, though, Red, White & Royal Blue ultimately comes to feel like a smashing success.
Red, White & Royal Blue is streaming on Prime Video.
Editors' Recommendations The best new shows to stream on Netflix, Hulu, Max (HBO), and more The 50 best shows on Netflix in November 2023 The 14 best sitcoms on Netflix right now (November 2023) The best anime on Amazon Prime Video right now The best horror movies on Amazon Prime right now Amazon Amazon Prime Video Best Products Netflix Streaming Guides Streaming Services Entertainment When you know you want to watch a movie, but you don't know what to watch, you can always rely on the best romantic comedies on Netflix right now. A good rom-com offers quality entertainment that you don't have to think about too much, making it a great choice at the end of a long day.
That's why they're such a popular genre and why Netflix has such an extensive list! We've done the digging through that list to find the ones most worth your time.
Entertainment To maintain its status as the top streaming service in the world, Netflix has produced an ungodly amount of original series in just a short period. And while Netflix has heavily invested in dramatic TV shows, many of the best Netflix drama shows come from outside of Netflix. It also has to be said that Netflix's collection of dramas on loan from other studios looks pretty light compared to what it used to have.
Regardless, Netflix remains a prime destination for drama shows because it is the streaming home for some of the most popular shows on network and cable television. Combined with Netflix's already impressive library of original series, that gives it the edge over all of its rivals. But if you're looking to catch up on some of the top options available, we can make things easier for you. All you have to do is read our list of the best Netflix drama shows right now.
Breaking Bad (2008-2013) Entertainment Do you know why romance is the most popular movie genre on Netflix? It's because people want love. They need it and they crave it. The best romance movies remind us of what it's like to be in love, and how it can be a transformative experience.
For the month of October, Netflix is bringing out some of the big guns of romance, including Silver Linings Playbook, Up in the Air, Dear John, and Love Actually. And that's just scratching the surface of the best romance movies on Netflix right now.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
