Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Netflix Original Movies Best Comedies on Netflix Best Netflix Original Series Best Anime on Netflix Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Fantasy Movies on Netflix Home Entertainment Guides The best romance shows on Netflix right now By Blair Marnell , Christine Persaud and Nick Perry Close Netflix may rule the roost with its selections of rom-coms and romantic drama movies, but its selection of romance TV shows isn’t quite as extensive. Fortunately, the best romance shows on Netflix is an international affair, as the streamer pulls in original series from around the world to help fill that gap.
Without that international flavor, we wouldn’t have this month’s vampire romantic comedy, Tooth Pari: When Love Bites , which comes from India. Then there’s the Australian surfing romance Surviving Summer.
Glamorous , on the other hand, could have come from any country, as long as it stars an original cast member from Sex and the City.
There are always new series coming to Netflix , but it’s a real challenge to find the next great romance show. Even with the international shows, you really have to search before you find what you’re looking for. Fortunately, reading our list of the best romance shows on Netflix is a lot easier than looking for these series on your own. You may even find your next favorite show.
Tooth Pari: When Love Bites tv-ma 2023 Surviving Summer tv-pg 2022 Glamorous tv-ma 2023 Tooth Pari: When Love Bites (2023) new tv-ma 1 Season Comedy, Mystery Tanya Maniktala, Shantanu Maheshwari, Saswata Chatterjee Pratim D. Gupta watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Although it arrived on Netflix earlier this year, Tooth Pari: When Love Bites is very appropriate for Halloween. This Indian love story follows Dr. Bikram Roy (Shantanu Maheshwari), a dentist who treats Rumi (Tanya Maniktala) after she breaks a tooth. Romantic sparks fly between them — even though Rumi is a vampire.
Rumi’s kind are kept hidden by their ally, Adi Deb (Adil Hussain), to protect them from their enemies, who are led by Luna Lika (Revathi). But having made a connection with Birkram, Rumi risks everything to pursue a romance — even though she can’t tell him who or what she really is.
Read less The 50 best movies on Netflix right now (November 2023) The best Hulu original series right now The 50 best anime on Hulu right now Surviving Summer (2022) new tv-pg 2 Seasons Drama Sky Katz, Kai Lewins, Savannah La Rain Joanna Werner, Josh Mapleston watch on Netflix watch on Netflix You may get Fresh Prince of Bel-Air flashbacks from the way that Summer Torres (Sky Katz) is shipped off to Australia in the teen romance series Surviving Summer.
 Summer gets in a lot of trouble in the U.S., so her mother, Margot (Kate Beahan), needs someone to look after her while she’s on an international assignment. Margot turns to her friend, Abbie (Adrienne Pickering), whom she hasn’t seen since Abbie moved to Australia 10 years earlier.
Although Summer wants to ditch Australia right away, she makes an instant connection with Margot’s son, Ari Gibson (Kai Lewins), and his circle of friends starts to become hers as well. This trip was only supposed to be for the summer, but Summer may have found where she belongs.
Read less Glamorous (2023) new tv-ma 1 Season Drama, Comedy Kim Cattrall, Miss Benny, Jade Payton watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Wondering what Kim Cattrall is up to when she isn’t making 30-second cameos on And Just Like That ? Cattrall has her own Netflix comedy series, Glamorous , in which she plays an aging fashion mogul, Madolyn Addison, who still rules the industry with her company, Glamorous.
Cattrall may get top billing, but the focus of the show is more on her new assistant, Marco Mejia (Miss Benny), a makeup enthusiast who is deeply fascinated by the world of fashion. Marco is also experiencing some questions of sexual identity, which are only magnified in this new environment.
Read less A Perfect Story (2023) tv-ma 1 Season Comedy Anna Castillo, Álvaro Mel, Ane Gabarain watch on Netflix watch on Netflix A Perfect Story is a Spanish romance series that follows an heiress, Margot (Anna Castillo), and a working-class guy, David (Álvaro Mel). Margot’s hard work isn’t taken seriously by her family and she feels trapped by her engagement to Filippo (Mario Ermito). As for David, he’s got three jobs just to make his ends meet.
When Margot flees her own wedding, she ends up in a bar where David is working as a bartender. From there, a friendship begins to bloom, but can they find love and move on together? Read less Heartstopper (2022) tv-14 2 Seasons Drama Joe Locke, Kit Connor, William Gao Alice Oseman watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Heartstopper season 1 was a slow-burn romance between gay teenager Charlie Spring (Joe Locke) and his best friend in school, Nick Nelson (Kit Connor). In season 2, Charlie and Nick are in a real romantic relationship, but Nick is having some real trouble finding a way to come out to his friends and teammates on the rugby team.
While Charlie and Nick are on solid ground with each other, there are still obstacles ahead that are getting in the way of their happiness, especially Charlie’s ex-boyfriend, Ben Hope (Sebastian Croft).
Read less If Only (2022) tv-ma 1 Season Sci-Fi & Fantasy, Drama, Comedy Megan Montaner, Miquel Fernández, Michel Noher Irma Correa watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Time-travel stories are often built around regret and an attempt to change something that went wrong. In If Only , everything went wrong for Emma (Megan Montaner), and it’s not just one thing she would change. It’s everything, but especially her failing marriage with Nando (Miquel Fernández).
Inexplicably, Emma finds herself reliving the past decade of her life. And this time she doesn’t have to commit to a dead-end relationship with Nando. She can find someone new to love. But just because Emma has lived through her life one time doesn’t mean that she’ll get everything right the second time.
Read less Grey's Anatomy (2005) tv-14 19 Seasons Drama Ellen Pompeo, James Pickens Jr., Chandra Wilson Shonda Rhimes watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Most shows aren’t built to run for nearly two decades, but Grey’s Anatomy is a rare breed. And Ellen Pompeo’s Dr. Meredith Grey has been there since the beginning. This month, Netflix is adding Grey’s Anatomy season 19, which finds Meredith finally ready to move on from Seattle Grace Mercy West Hospital while sorting out her romantic relationship with Dr. Nick Marsh (Scott Speedman).
Because of Meredith’s reduced role this season, five young doctors were added to the mix: Dr. Simone Griffith (Alexis Floyd), Dr. Benson “Blue” Kwan (Harry Shum Jr.), Dr. Jules Millin (Adelaide Kane), Dr. Mika Yasuda (Midori Francis), and Dr. Lucas Adams (Niko Terho). Their intersecting career ambitions and romantic pursuits breathe new life into the show. And who’s to say how many more seasons it can run? Read less Queen Charlotte: A Bridgerton Story (2023) tv-ma 1 Season Drama India Ria Amarteifio, Corey Mylchreest, Arsema Thomas Shonda Rhimes watch on Netflix watch on Netflix On Bridgerton , Queen Charlotte (Golda Rosheuvel) is so self-assured and in control that it’s a little disconcerting to see the young Queen Charlotte (India Amarteifio) decades earlier in the prequel series, Queen Charlotte: A Bridgerton Story.
 Early in this show, young Charlotte becomes the queen when she marries King George III (Corey Mylchreest).
Unfortunately for Charlotte, love and marriage isn’t as easy as marrying into the royal family. George’s penchant for secrecy and his growing mental illness threaten his reign even as he and Charlotte struggle to make their marriage into a true union.
Read less XO, Kitty (2023) tv-14 1 Season Comedy, Drama Anna Cathcart, Choi Min-yeong, Gia Kim Jenny Han watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Spinoffs are always tricky because it’s hard to make a supporting character into a lead.
XO, Kitty largely avoids that problem by taking Anna Cathcart’s Kitty Song Covey out of the familiar confines of the To All the Boys trilogy. Kitty thinks she knows everything she needs to know about love, but she’s in for a rude awakening.
Much to the surprise of Kitty’s long-distance boyfriend, Dae (Choi Min-young), Kitty uproots her life and moves to South Korea just in the hope of finally finding the true love that has eluded her. Kitty has a lot to learn, and she might get her heart broken along the way.
Read less Valeria (2020) tv-ma 3 Seasons Comedy, Drama Diana Gómez, Silma López, Paula Malia María López Castaño watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Do you think that Sex and the City is racy? Then you haven’t seen Valeria , the Spanish romantic comedy/drama series that is ending its three-season run on Netflix. Much like HBO’s iconic series, Valeria follows four female friends, Valeria (Diana Gómez), Carmen (Paula Malia), Lola (Silma López), and Nerea (Teresa Riott). Together, they navigate their late ‘20s as they search for love and fulfillment in their lives.
Season 3 picks up with Carmen heading to the altar while Valeria’s romance with Victor (Maxi Iglesias) hits the skids. Fortunately, it’s not long before Valeria sparks a new love connection with Bruno (Federico Aguado), a writer who shares many of her passions. But Valeria and her friends will have to face some serious questions before they can find the happiness they are looking for.
Read less Sex/Life (2021) tv-ma 2 Seasons Comedy, Drama Sarah Shahi, Mike Vogel, Adam Demos Stacy Rukeyser watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Sometimes, romance means intense passion, and that’s just what Billie (Sarah Shahi) realizes she was missing in Sex/Life.
 While suffering a midlife crisis, the former psychology Ph.D. candidate, mother, and housewife can’t seem to stop thinking about her ex-boyfriend Brad (Adam Demos).
He lives a fast-paced, exciting life that’s very different from Billie’s life with her strait-laced investment banker husband. While her husband Cooper (Mike Vogel) tries to make her feel as sexually satisfied as she once did with Brad, their twisted, emotional states create a messy situation.
Sex/Life isn’t your traditional romance, but it’s provocative, steamy, and erotic.
Read less Love Is Blind (2020) tv-ma 4 Seasons Reality Vanessa Lachey, Nick Lachey watch on Netflix watch on Netflix It’s difficult to believe that Netflix’s cheesy, weird, trashy social experiment is already on its fourth season. Thirty singles from a different state in America join each season to “meet” other singles, talking to them from separate enclosed pods without ever seeing one another. After courting multiple people, they decide who they made connections with and talk more.
If they ultimately decide this person is “the one” and want to propose marriage (and it’s accepted), the two finally get to meet in person. From there, they go on vacation together, live together, meet one another’s families, and discover if it is truly meant to be, all while planning their weddings. The concept is completely backward, but there are enough raw, romantic moments intertwined with the juicy drama to keep you hooked the entire way through.
Read less Little Things (2016) 4 Seasons Drama, Comedy Mithila Palkar, Dhruv Sehgal Dhruv Sehgal watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Read less Emily in Paris (2020) tv-ma 3 Seasons Drama, Comedy Lily Collins, Ashley Park, Philippine Leroy-Beaulieu Darren Star watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Read less The Empress (2022) tv-ma 1 Season Drama Devrim Lingnau, Philip Froissant, Melika Foroutan Katharina Eyssen watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Read less Jane the Virgin (2014) tv-14 5 Seasons Comedy, Drama Gina Rodriguez, Andrea Navedo, Yael Grobglas Jennie Snyder Urman watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Read less Love on the Spectrum U.S. (2022) 1 Season Documentary, Reality watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Read less Outlander (2014) tv-ma 6 Seasons Drama, Sci-Fi & Fantasy Caitriona Balfe, Sam Heughan Ronald D. Moore watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Read less Love (2016) tv-ma 3 Seasons Comedy, Drama Gillian Jacobs, Paul Rust, Chris Witaske Judd Apatow, Paul Rust, Lesley Arfin watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Read less Grace and Frankie (2015) tv-ma 7 Seasons Comedy, Drama Jane Fonda, Lily Tomlin, Martin Sheen Howard J. Morris, Marta Kauffman watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Read less Gilmore Girls (2000) tv-14 7 Seasons Comedy, Drama Lauren Graham, Alexis Bledel, Scott Patterson Amy Sherman-Palladino watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Read less Bridgerton (2020) tv-ma 2 Seasons Drama Regé-Jean Page, Phoebe Dynevor, Julie Andrews Chris Van Dusen watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Read less Crazy Ex-Girlfriend (2015) tv-14 4 Seasons Comedy Rachel Bloom, Donna Lynne Champlin, Vincent Rodriguez III Aline Brosh McKenna, Rachel Bloom watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Read less Lucifer (2016) tv-14 6 Seasons Crime, Sci-Fi & Fantasy Tom Ellis, Lauren German, Kevin Alejandro Tom Kapinos watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Read less Sex Education (2019) tv-ma 4 Seasons Comedy, Drama Asa Butterfield, Gillian Anderson, Ncuti Gatwa Laurie Nunn watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Read less Virgin River (2019) tv-14 5 Seasons Drama Alexandra Breckenridge, Martin Henderson, Colin Lawrence Sue Tenney watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Read less Gilmore Girls: A Year in the Life (2016) tv-14 1 Season Drama, Comedy Lauren Graham, Alexis Bledel, Scott Patterson Amy Sherman-Palladino watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Read less Easy (2016) tv-ma 3 Seasons Comedy, Drama Joe Swanberg watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Read less Love Alarm (2019) 2 Seasons Drama, Sci-Fi & Fantasy Kim So-hyun, Jung Ga-ram, Song Kang Yoo Bo-ra watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Read less Editors' Recommendations The best new shows to stream on Netflix, Hulu, Max (HBO), and more The 50 best shows on Netflix in November 2023 The best movies and shows on Shudder right now (November 2023) The best Black movies on Netflix right now The 10 most popular movies on Netflix right now Best Products Netflix Streaming Guides Streaming Services Movie images and data from: Entertainment The best feel-good movies on Netflix right now include plenty of romantic comedies to watch while snuggling up with your partner, pet, or favorite blanket.
There's also a concert tour documentary courtesy of Taylor Swift, which is particularly topical due to the singing sensation's dominance of the pop culture zeitgeist. We've sorted through the best feel-good movies on Netflix and feel good about the list below.
Entertainment It's not hard to find a great comedy movie on Netflix. Unlike some other genres like sci-fi and fantasy, Netflix keeps its lineup of comedies well-stocked with some recent box-office hits, like Jennifer Lawrence's No Hard Feelings, as well as classic titles on loan from other studios and a lot of original films. This month's new additions include the first theatrical adaptation of The Addams Family, The Big Lebowski, and Scott Pilgrim vs. the World. It's pretty hard to go wrong with those flicks.
Comedies come and go, which is why it's important to stay glued to what's new on Netflix. If you're looking for laughs, these are the best comedies on Netflix right now.
Entertainment You're going to see a lot of Christmas movies on Hulu through the end of the year. 'Tis the season for the Huludays, after all. While we'll go over your Christmas options at a later date, this month's selections of the best movies on Hulu feature a new original film, Quiz Lady, as well as A Haunting in Venice, which recently finished its theatrical run. The other prominent new additions are Jumanji: Welcome to the Jungle and the comedy biopic Driven.
Need help keeping up with everything new on Hulu? Every month, we go over the greatest films that Hulu has to offer while keeping track of what's coming and going. That's why our update of the best movies on Hulu is always current. We're here to help you plan your next movie night.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
