Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Netflix Original Movies Best Comedies on Netflix Best Netflix Original Series Best Anime on Netflix Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Fantasy Movies on Netflix Home Entertainment Features How Bridgerton made the period piece better (and sexier) By David Caballero Close Bridgerton , the Netflix sensation that broke records when it debuted in 2020, finally returned on March 25 for its much-anticipated second season. The eight-episode story focuses on the romance between the eldest Bridgerton, Anthony, and Kate Sharma, a newly arrived Indian woman looking to find her younger sister an advantageous marriage. Like its predecessor, Bridgerton ‘s second season blends the traditional romance expected from a Regency piece with a decidedly modern and sex-filled twist that made the show’s first outing so successful. The result might seem less fresh than the first time around, but Bridgerton remains an addictive and shamelessly horny pleasure for romance fans.
A brand new world Boy meets girl Old dog, new tricks The show made waves when it premiered thanks to the aforementioned sex scenes — uncommon for the Austen-influenced Regency genre — and its widely diverse cast, including several Black actors and a Black male lead.
Bridgerton presented a London that acknowledged race but wasn’t limited by it, a sprawling and vibrant city where a Black woman could be queen and a Black man a duke.
Some critics and fans quickly pointed out how choosing a Black lead wouldn’t be historically accurate. Cries of “there were no Black dukes” filled the internet, along with accusations of the show pandering to the “woke” crowd. Some fans also expressed disappointment at the show’s changes to the source material, Julia Quinn’s wildly successful The Duke and I , where the Duke in question was decidedly not Black. Still, Bridgerton overcame its detractors, who were admittedly quieter than in other instances, to become the biggest show on Netflix , a title it held until Squid Game arrived late last year.
Everything coming to Netflix in October 2023 Everything coming to Netflix in September 2023 Silo season 1’s ending, explained A brand new world Image used with permission by copyright holder Showrunner Chris Van Dusen told Heart.co.uk , “we’re not a history lesson, it’s not a documentary.” There is an element of disbelief that accompanies every piece of fiction, even the most realistic. It can be something as basic as believing a certain actor is playing a certain character; when watching Frankie and Johnny , audiences must go along with watching Michelle Pfeiffer playing a waitress at an old café despite knowing few real-life waitresses, if any, look like Michelle Pfeiffer. Nearly every form of entertainment involves an unspoken arrangement with its viewers, a bargain that allows fiction to take over.
Historically inclined fans will know that Queen Charlotte was very real, albeit not Black, despite many claims that she might’ve had African ancestry. However, Bridgerton doesn’t concern itself with reality; on the contrary, the show goes out of its way to separate itself from other Regency-era dramas.
Bridgerton is bright and lively, full of pastels and loud colors that starkly contrast with the more muted palettes of movies like Joe Wright’s Pride & Prejudice.
The show features lavish production values that nonetheless introduce a modern twist to its characters’ clothing. Gone are the demure dresses of, say, Sense and Sensibility ‘s Dashwood sisters, replaced by bolder attires that aren’t afraid to play with colors, fabrics, and layers.
Bridgerton unabashedly reinforces the “fiction” portion of the historical fiction genre, creating a version of 1810s London made specifically for a 2020s audience. And viewers are ready to consume what it offers.
Boy meets girl Image used with permission by copyright holder When thinking about it, the romantic genre has always asked a lot from its audience. Take Daphne’s brief season one romance with the very real Prince Frederick of Prussia, a classic love setup involving a charming and handsome prince and a young and beautiful ingenue. In any other time, that would’ve been the love story that dominated the series, and fans would’ve had no issue with a real-life figure romancing a fictional character because it would’ve been familiar, expected even. Never mind that the real Prince Frederick married a German princess, Luise of Anhalt-Bernburg, with whom he had two children. In romance stories, princes marry beautiful girls, reality be damned. Romance might be the most escapist genre, and audiences will be at their most forgiving when watching it.
Bridgerton is a natural progression of this arrangement. Modern audiences are ready to consume content that reflects the reality they live in, escaping into a world where not everything might fit or make sense, but it doesn’t matter because love conquers all.
In many ways, Bridgerton revolutionized the period drama by changing audiences’ perception of how they could experience and enjoy it.
Bridgerton is still the classic love story of handsome man meets gorgeous woman, but with one of the parties having a darker skin color. The passion is still there — in abundance, in fact — and the romance still fills every scene and drips from every word.
Bridgerton ‘s audience embraced the change because the show retains the essential appeal of the Regency romance while also updating it with nontraditional casting choices that make it more accessible.
Season 2 continues its commitment to diversifying the genre by casting actress Simone Ashley, who has Indian Tamil parents, as the female lead, Kate Sharma. Originally Kate Sheffield in the book, the character is as headstrong and independent on the screen as she was on the page; her skin color might differ, but her essence remains the same. Furthermore, her chemistry with Jonathan Bailey’s Anthony is as intense as their book counterparts, to the relief of millions of fans worldwide, who wanted more than anything for the show to do their beloved “Kanthony” justice.
Old dog, new tricks Image used with permission by copyright holder Already renewed for a third season, Bridgerton shows no sign of stopping, and it shouldn’t. Along with Broadway phenomenon Hamilton , Bridgerton is leading the charge for a new wave of period pieces to come out and challenge audiences’ perceptions and expectations. Still, their biggest challenge might lie ahead.
Season 3 should theoretically focus on Benedict’s romance with Sophie Beckett, a Cinderella-like figure who leaves behind a glove instead of a shoe. The show made subtle hints that Benedict might be sexually fluid during the first season, although they are all but gone in the second. But Bridgerton already proved it’s ahead of everyone else; could the show take the next step in diversity, then? Race is one thing, but sexuality remains taboo for many people. Audiences can accept a Black Simon and an Indian Kate, but could they deal with a male Sophie? The exciting part is that, for Bridgerton , the sky is the limit. The show has already made it clear that it exists in its own version of 19th-century London, a world that viewers are more than happy to visit. The question now is, how far can they go with their commitment to diversity. How far should they go? Whatever the answer, Bridgerton shouldn’t bear the burden by itself. Two years after the show’s debut, there still isn’t a companion piece for fans to enjoy.
Fantasy IPs like The Lord of the Rings are diversifying their casts , but their efforts are receiving far more criticism than Bridgerton ever did.
Studios shouldn’t be deterred, though, now that the door for diversification and experimentation is open. If Simon and Daphne and Kate and Anthony can live their dreams, then there’s room for more stories like theirs in television.
Bridgerton already made the first step, and audiences excitedly followed. The time for innovation is now, especially for a genre constricted by its own misconceptions for far too long. Audiences are ready to assess their period stories with a different eye and renewed interest, retooling the historical fiction genre and making it more relevant than ever before. After all, the past is not even past, so why shouldn’t it evolve, at least in fiction? Both seasons of Bridgerton are available to stream on Netflix.
Editors' Recommendations Why Jon Pertwee’s Doctor Who is the best version of the character ever Is Netflix’s hit show One Piece too faithful to the manga its based on? How the hit sci-fi show Silo paves the way for Amazon’s Fallout adaptation How do I get into Star Trek? A guide to how to watch the beloved sci-fi franchise The Red Wedding at 10: How the groundbreaking episode changed Game of Thrones forever Features Netflix Entertainment In the long and storied history of TV, there have been plenty of great sitcoms. From All in the Family to Friends to Seinfeld, popular, critically-acclaimed situational comedy shows tended to bring plenty of awards with them, and they also ran for an insanely long time. Two of the more recent shows to vie for entries in the pantheon of all-time great sitcoms are undoubtedly The Office and The Big Bang Theory.
Although the two shows overlapped in their runs, they represent two fundamentally different approaches to sitcom storytelling. The question remains, though, as to which show is actually better. Let's break it down in a couple of crucial ways: Which one is funnier? Entertainment Warning: this article contains major spoilers for Silo episodes 1-4.
Silo is refreshingly ruthless. Based on a series of novels by Hugh Howey, the new sci-fi thriller comes from Justified creator Graham Yost, and it boasts the same kind of cutthroat drama as that beloved FX original. Over the course of its first three episodes, Silo, which is the latest addition to Apple TV+’s growing library of sci-fi dramas, has killed off not just one, but three of its major characters.
Entertainment The year 2023 started off with a bang as some great new TV shows like Poker Face made their debut and popular series like Succession returned with new seasons. While not every show is a hit, some have taken off, exploding in popularity and becoming immediate favorites with fans and critics alike. In some cases, shows that made the biggest waves were a surprise, while others that were wonderful didn’t get the recognition they deserve.
We’re only a few months into 2023, but a group of shows is already emerging as the best of the year so far. Some are existing shows enjoying incredible new seasons while others are brand new shows that are sure to delight with new seasons to come.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
