Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix F1 Live Stream Stranger Things Season 5 Best New Movies Most Popular Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney+ UFC Live Stream Best Movies on Disney+ Home Entertainment Reviews ‘Kong: Skull Island’ review 'Kong: Skull Island' makes the giant ape great again By Rick Marshall Close Hollywood’s favorite giant ape roars again in ‘Kong: Skull Island,’ an entertaining, escapist adventure that hits all the right monster-movie notes.
The giant-monster genre is hit-or-miss these days. For every critically and commercially successful Cloverfield , Pacific Rim , or Godzilla reboot, there are a dozen low-budget movies about giant sharks or other monsters that fail to even make the cut for “so bad it’s good” consideration.
Genuinely good giant-monster movies that are entertaining, compelling, and avoid making you question how you spend the finite time you have in this life are rare. That’s why it’s so fitting that King Kong, the massive ape who ushered in the giant-monster genre, is helping to revitalize it again.
As with all the best giant-monster movies, there’s a lot to like about director Jordan Vogt-Roberts’ colossal creature feature, Kong: Skull Island – and not all of it has to do with the titular ape.
5 animated shows on Netflix you need to watch in August The School for Good and Evil review: Middling magic Rosaline review: Kaitlyn Dever lifts up Hulu’s Romeo and Juliet rom-com riff Helmed by Vogt-Roberts from a script by Oscar-nominated Nightcrawler writer Dan Gilroy, Jurassic World co-writer Derek Connolly, and Godzilla writer Max Borenstein, Kong: Skull Island offers a new origin story for the famous King Kong. The film follows a group of scientists and soldiers tasked with investigating a mysterious island in the Pacific Ocean; they make the sudden – and deadly – discovery that monsters do indeed exist, and might just prevent them from ever leaving the island.
Although the film is set in the same cinematic universe as 2014’s Godzilla , the story unfolds in 1973, making it a prequel to Godzilla that also establishes a broader cinematic universe for Legendary Pictures’ giant monsters and sets up the inevitable crossover between the two.
While that’s all well and good, Kong: Skull Island boasts a ridiculously impressive cast of human actors, too.
The Avengers actor Tom Hiddleston leads an ensemble that includes Academy Award-winner Brie Larson ( Room ), Oscar nominees Samuel L. Jackson ( Django Unchained ) and John C. Reilly ( Step Brothers ), and The Big Lebowski actor John Goodman.
Straight Outta Compton stars Corey Hawkins and Jason Mitchell also play supporting roles, along with The Great Wall actress Tian Jing, and (fittingly) Dawn of the Planet of the Apes actor Toby Kebbell.
Given such a high-profile cast, it’s no surprise that Skull Island achieves in one area that 2014’s Godzilla often struggled: Holding the audience’s attention when the film’s eponymous monster isn’t on the screen.
Kong: Skull Island wouldn’t be nearly as entertaining without John C. Reilly’s performance.
Hiddleston in particular makes a strong case for himself as a capable action-hero lead, portraying an expert tracker in Skull Island who’s recruited to help them explore the island’s uncharted jungles, but soon finds himself leading the rapidly dwindling group of survivors. Best known for playing the trickster villain Loki in Marvel’s cinematic universe, Hiddleston is clearly comfortable playing a hero in Skull Island and rarely seems like a supporting act to the film’s giant star– unlike the cast of most giant-monster movies.
As the leader of the military squadron and the government agent who commissions the journey to Skull Island, respectively, Jackson and Goodman provide the sort of compelling performances we’ve come to expect from the two actors. It’s a testament to their talents that they can remain the focal point of a scene even when they’re featured alongside a massive, monstrous gorilla, and their presence ensures that Skull Island maintains its momentum when there aren’t any monsters on the screen.
Although she occasionally slips into a damsel-in-distress role, Larson also shows some action-movie chops, and she plays off Hiddleston well in the scenes they share. The presence of her war photographer character might not make a whole lot of sense in the context of the film, but Larson makes it work with a performance that distracts from the narrative questions raised by her role.
Image used with permission by copyright holder The most memorable performance of the entire film, however, comes from Reilly – and the studio should be commended for not spoiling too many of his best moments in the trailer.
Reilly provides the majority of the film’s lighter moments in his role as a World War II fighter pilot who crashed on the island decades earlier and might have a tenuous grip on reality due to all the years he spent waiting for rescue. However, he manages to be more than just comic relief.
Kong is smartly portrayed as an occasionally sympathetic, but more often terrifyingly dangerous element.
At various points, Reilly’s character says or does just the right thing – in some cases, voicing what the audience is probably thinking – to keep the movie from veering into typical monster-movie tropes. He ends up wavering between being the most eccentric character and the most rational, which almost certainly isn’t as easy to pull off as he makes it seem.
Kong: Skull Island wouldn’t be nearly as entertaining without Reilly’s performance, and both the film and the studio expertly handle what they get from him.
As for Kong himself, the great ape is smartly portrayed as an occasionally sympathetic, but more often terrifyingly dangerous element in the human characters’ adventure.
To his credit, Vogt-Roberts opts to stop short of humanizing Kong in the way so many other giant-monster movies do. Instead of framing its giant star as a victim in the events transpiring around it, Skull Island makes Kong an awe-inspiring force of nature, wisely keeping a distance between its iconic ape and its human characters. This approach retains a lot of the mystery surrounding Kong and what we can expect from him, and – as the title character was handled in 2014’s Godzilla – all of that uncertainty makes him larger than life in so many more aspects than just his size.
Image used with permission by copyright holder The film complements great performances by both its human actors and its digitally created giant ape with some wild fight sequences involving Kong and other monstrous inhabitants of the island.
The brawls that involve Kong are by far the best of these sequences, and the film’s visual-effects team manages to make every fight feel unique – a task that countless other films have had a tough time accomplishing. There’s a grand sense of scale in the monsters’ fight sequences, and they’re expertly blended with the actions of the human characters on the periphery in such a way as to avoid the all-too-common feeling that the human actors are reacting to a green screen.
Kong: Skull Island is not only a worthy standard-bearer in the giant-monster genre, but an excellent reminder of the genre’s appeal as both escapist fantasy and compelling adventure that pits humanity against forces it can’t hope to control. It also improves upon the success of 2014’s Godzilla in rebooting the most iconic characters of the genre, offering a story that keeps the level of excitement and drama high even when there aren’t any monsters on the screen.
Editors' Recommendations 7 franchises that need a reboot right now Where to watch all the Indiana Jones movies and TV series Slash/Back review: The kids are all right (especially when fighting aliens) Halloween Ends review: a franchise mercy kill Decision to Leave review: An achingly romantic noir thriller Entertainment At a time when anti-Semitic extremists are storming the U.S Capitol, running for office, and declaring war on Jewish people via social media, it might not be the best time for a movie that expects you to sympathize with Nazis. And yet, that hasn't stopped Operation Seawolf from sailing into theaters and on-demand streaming services this month.
The film, which follows the crew of a German U-boat during the waning days of World War II, casts Dolph Lundgren (Rocky IV) as German war hero Capt. Hans Kessler, who's ordered to lead the Nazis' remaining U-boats on a desperate (and likely fatal) mission to attack the U.S. on its own soil. As he and his crew make their way toward New York City in one final bid to turn the tide of war, Kessler finds himself struggling with both the internal politics of the ship and his own sense of duty as the Third Reich crumbles around him.
Entertainment It’s spooky season this month, and that means the atrocity mine is currently being plundered by content creators across America. The three-episode docuseries Conversations with a Killer: The Jeffrey Dahmer Tapes, directed by noted documentarian Joe Berlinger (Brother's Keeper, Paradise Lost), is Netflix’s second project tackling the infamous cannibal/necrophiliac/serial killer to debut in a matter of weeks. It follows Ryan Murphy’s 10-hour miniseries drama, Dahmer-Monster: The Jeffrey Dahmer Story. This Dahmer double dose mirrors the barrage of Ted Bundy content that Netflix put out in early 2019, following up the Zac Efron-led drama Extremely Wicked, Shockingly Evil and Vile with the docuseries Conversations with a Killer: The Ted Bundy Tapes (also directed by Berlinger).
As was the case with Bundy, Netflix is convinced that a multipronged examination of Dahmer could lead to a better understanding of his psychology and motivations, teaching viewers warning signs or expanding our capacity for empathy. Or maybe they recognize that people are addicted to unspeakable tragedies and will do anything they can to maximize viewers’ compulsion for true crime? Attempting to satisfy on all accounts, The Dahmer Tapes oscillates uneasily between character study, social commentary, and pure shock value, landing somewhere in between all three.
In Dahmer's own words Entertainment Amsterdam could have been forgiven for being a lot of things, but dull is not one of them. The new film from writer-director David O. Russell boasts one of the most impressive ensemble casts of the year and is photographed by Emmanuel Lubezki, one of Hollywood’s premier cinematographers. Beyond that, its kooky premise and even wackier cast of characters open the door for Amsterdam to be the kind of screwball murder mystery that O. Russell, at the very least, seems uniquely well-equipped to make.
Instead, Amsterdam is a disaster of the highest order. It’s a film made up of so many disparate, incongruent parts that it becomes clear very early on in its 134-minute runtime that no one involved — O. Russell most of all — really knew what it is they were making. It is a misfire of epic proportions, a comedic conspiracy thriller that is written like a haphazard screwball comedy but paced like a meandering detective drama. Every element seems to be at odds with another, resulting in a film that is rarely funny but consistently irritating.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
