Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix F1 Live Stream Stranger Things Season 5 Best New Movies Most Popular Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney+ UFC Live Stream Best Movies on Disney+ Home Entertainment Features Sterrt! Letterkenny’s Roald and Stewart on skid love, gaming, and season 11 By Rick Marshall Close In the current television landscape, it’s becoming increasingly rare for a show to get a second season, let alone the 11, critically acclaimed seasons that Letterkenny has delivered to its fans.
The award-winning Canadian sitcom about the residents of a fictional town in rural Ontario chronicles the interactions between the town’s various cliques — informally known as hicks, skids, hockey players, natives, and degens — amid a steady stream of brisk dialogue, ham-fisted brawls, Canadian colloquialisms, and even the occasional dance break.
While series creator Jared Keeso’s character, Wayne, ostensibly leads the show’s ensemble cast, two of the breakout stars of Letterkenny are a pair of drug-dealing goths whose adventures in crime have taken them to the big city and back over the course of the show’s run. “Skids” ringleaders Stewart and Roald, played by Tyler Johnston and Evan Stern, respectively, have become fan-favorite characters (and popular fan-fiction subjects) as their relationship has morphed with each passing season.
Letterkenny season 10 trailer reveals late December return With season 11 of Letterkenny now available to stream on Hulu , Digital Trends spoke to Johnston and Stern about the duo’s evolving partnership, getting recognized by fans, streaming on Twitch, and the Letterkenny Live experience.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Digital Trends: Stewart and Roald’s relationship has evolved quite a bit since the early seasons. How would you describe your dynamic these days? Evan Stern: Best friends, for sure. And maybe … lovers? Tyler Johnston: Are we still talking about Roald and Stewart? Stern: I would say we went from a more controller-and-subservient dynamic to something a little bit more, well … Tyler has actually noticed it in the last couple of seasons. He’s been like, “I don’t like how much independence Roald has now!” There’s definitely been a bit of an arc where Roald gets a little bit more, well … let’s call it power? Johnston: Yeah, it’s changed. And I think in Stewart’s case, he’s realized that close … friends … like Roald don’t come by every day.
Stern: Almost never, for sure.
Johnston: I think Stewart has come to appreciate his … friend … Roald more and more.
Stern: You keep saying “friend,” but I think you’re looking for another word here.
Image used with permission by copyright holder I appreciate the very clear quotation marks around “friend” every time you two say it.
Stern: Yeah, it’s always like, “we’re … friends?” Some of my favorite moments in the series are when everyone gets together around some common cause. What are those moments like on your side? Johnston: They don’t want us in the room anymore. They put up tape! Stern: It’s amazing to work with all the people in the cast. When you get to walk in and see 10 of your best friends in a room, and they’re like, “All right, everybody, let’s start work,” you’re like, “OK, sure!” It just feels nice.
Johnston: It’s really, really fun. It’s kind of like a Royal Rumble sometimes. You put all the characters into a room and let them go at it. We’re all professionals, but some of us try to make each other laugh. Those are usually really, really great days, but Jacob [Tierney, series co-writer and director] and our assistant director usually need to calm us down, pretty much all the time.
Stern: Yeah, that’s fair … We have been barked at a couple times.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Letterkenny has such a wonderful fandom. What was the point when you realized this was something special — that you were part of a show people were going to be quoting at you everywhere you went? Stern: I was walking home one night after some drinks and these two dudes from Ireland picked me up and started carrying me like I was in a chair, and they were like, “We love Letterkenny !” I was like, “This is wild.” I didn’t know who these dudes were, but it was like, “Oh, wow, we touched Ireland.” That was a moment for me, for sure.
That could have gone a different way. I’m glad it worked out! Stern: Right?! Johnston: Like, “I was drinking and these guys grabbed me and carried me away …” Stern: They picked me up so easily! I mean, I know I’m small, but, wow! Johnston: There were a couple of moments in this Letterkenny journey for me. One was during the first couple of seasons, when Dylan [Playfair] and Andrew [Herr] were on Canadian TV commercials all the time between hockey and football games. You could not get away from seeing Andrew and Dylan, [who play] Reilly and Jonesy, everywhere.
Another moment was when I went to the airport here in Vancouver and there was a big billboard at the airport running a Letterkenny commercial. That was really cool, and then, of course, when the Hulu sale happened, it took the whole thing to the next level.
Stern: We went international, baby! Image used with permission by copyright holder Johnston: Similar to Evan, I was actually in Edinburgh [Scotland] with Andrew, and a bartender at this bar we were at didn’t recognize me, but recognized Andrew. He goes, “Are you the guy from Letterkenny ?” Andrew was like, “You know about the show?” He said, “Yeah, my roommates here introduced me to the show and we all love it.” Andrew and I still had to pay for the drinks, but … Stern: … so it was a terrible experience overall.
Johnston: Yeah, totally. But no, really, it was a pretty cool experience in the end.
I guess without the wig and such, you probably don’t get recognized as often, Tyler? Johnston: Not as much as some of our some of the other actors, no.
Stern: Yeah, you fly under the radar. I was surprised that you wanted to cut your hair in that one episode where you got to reveal your actual face shape! Image used with permission by copyright holder Where are you hoping to see Roald and Stewart go in future seasons? What are some scenarios you’d like to see the skids explore? Stern: I would love to see Roald and Stewart do something on their own in the city at some point and go into that city plot just a little more, just to see why the city was so dangerous and why the city is so bad for them. I feel like there’s a lot of opportunity to explore that. We got a bit of it a couple of seasons back, with the drug dealer and how dangerous it can get with [party drug] GHB and all that stuff, but I think we can get a little bit more … Johnston: He wants more danger! Stern: I want more danger. I want a little more danger! Johnston: Me, I’m thinking they should become accountants and try to settle down and crunch numbers. You’ll start to think like, “Oh my God, the skids have really settled in and they’re relaxed. They’ve got a straight-edge job!” Stern: And then … tax evasion! Johnston: Money laundering! Stern: Organized crime! This feels very Breaking Bad … Stern: Well, better, obviously … Image used with permission by copyright holder Evan, you’ve been streaming on Twitch a lot lately. I saw you were gaming during the Letterkenny Live tour and streaming. What’s the Twitch experience like for you and what are you playing these days? Stern: Here’s the thing: Tyler really is my biggest fan. Every time I do a Twitch stream, I see the little “tylerjbjohnston” tag pop into the chat. It’s always like, “Hey, buddy! How’s it going, buddy?” Johnston: I’m like, “I love you! I support you!” Stern: And that’s when I silence my phone. … But I love Twitch. I love the opportunity to connect with fans on a one-on-one basis, because they get in there and we have conversations. We get to play games together! We play a lot of Valorant right now. It’s a first-person shooter, and it’s beautiful. And yeah, Tyler is so supportive of it and it just warms my heart to see my co-worker coming in to say hello occasionally … Johnston: Co-worker? Or … friend? Stern: Exactly. I’ve been trying to convince him to join Twitch and to play games with me. And I think I think he’s close. I think we almost got him.
Johnston: What games are you playing, Rick? I’m still catching up with a lot of games. I just got a PlayStation 5.
Stern: Oh, congratulations! Johnston: Lucky! Finally got your hands on one! Image used with permission by copyright holder Circling back to the Letterkenny Live tour, I was able to catch one of the shows, and it was such a fun experience. What was it like for you two doing a live version of the series? Stern: Which Letterkenny Live show did you go to? The one in Albany, New York. You weren’t actually at that one, Evan. I think you were under the weather.
Johnston: It was probably a banger, that one.
Stern: I heard that one sucked.
It was great, but you were missed, Evan. So how was the live tour? Johnston: I’d give it a 25 out of 10, Rick. There’s so much energy when you step onstage. I don’t do stand-up comedy, but I imagine being able to step on a stage and knowing people are going to laugh at anything you say, no matter what you say, is a pretty safe feeling. And getting to share in the energy of this amazing show with our fans in person like that was pretty special.
Stern: Yeah, it was awesome. One thing we got to share with each other, too, was traveling around on a bus. I thought for sure I would get so sick of these people. I had prepared to be like, “Well, I’m not going to talk to Tyler for a year after this.” But we were closer than ever after the tour. It really was a very lovely experience.
All 11 seasons of Letterkenny are available now on the Hulu streaming service.
Letterkenny (2016) tv-ma 11 Seasons Comedy Jared Keeso, Nathan Dales, Michelle Mylett Jared Keeso watch on Hulu watch on Hulu Editors' Recommendations Letterkenny’s cast loves prostate humor, teases season 11 Features Movie images and data from: Entertainment November has been a great month for movies at Netflix, with the premiere of David Fincher's The Killer, and recent box office hits like Insidious: The Red Door and Spider-Man: Across the Spider-Verse. This week, the new additions include The Impossible, a 2012 survival thriller that has already landed on the list of the 10 most popular movies on Netflix. For younger viewers, Minions is also heating up the charts despite the pending departure of the other films in the franchise at the end of the month.
There's only one holiday weekend left in November, so what's the best way to stay on top of everything new on Netflix? Why, we are, of course. Our list of the best movies on Netflix right now is updated every Friday, even on holiday weekends, so you can easily find something for every movie lover in your life.
Entertainment Summer is long over, and the fall season is in full swing. It's now late 2023, and just about everyone is subscribed to Netflix and Hulu. But would you be surprised if I told you one of the most underrated streaming services around is Tubi? The upstart streamer has tons of new and old TV shows from every decade and every genre imaginable. Want to watch the buzziest series that aired on Max? Tubi has it. Are you feeling nostalgic about that old movie or cartoon you used to watch as a kid in the '80s or '90s? Chances are, Tubi has it.
Tubi has so much content that it can be hard to choose which shows and films are worth your time. Digital Trends is here to help you sort out which ones are worth watching. Even though the streaming service is free, time is valuable, and no one wants to waste it watching subpar content.
Entertainment Rather than waiting for the Thanksgiving holiday weekend, Apple TV+ and Netflix dropped two of their biggest shows of the fall this week. Netflix's The Crown kicked off its sixth and final season with four new episodes, while the Apple TV+ Godzilla-adjacent series Monarch: Legacy of Monster, dropped its first two episodes this week, with new episodes arriving weekly thereafter. Also this week, Scott Pilgrim Takes Off hits Netflix, while Max gets in on the act this week by premiering the second season of Julia.
Netflix, Amazon Prime Video, Hulu, Max, Apple TV+, Disney+, Paramount+, and Peacock still have new shows coming for the rest of November, including a handful arriving next week. But if you've been thinking about cutting back on your streaming bill, then perhaps you should consider signing up for the ad-supported tiers. In the meantime, keep reading for our weekly roundup of the best new shows to stream.
When you're done here, check out the best new movies to stream this week, as well as the best shows on Netflix, best shows on Hulu, best shows on Amazon Prime Video, and best shows on Disney+.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
