Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Shows on Disney+ Best Star Wars Movies on Disney+ Best Disney Movies on Disney+ Best Movies on Disney+ Best Kids Movies on Disney+ Home Entertainment Features Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Loki’s first two episodes are burdened with glorious purpose in the best ways By Rick Marshall Close When Marvel first announced that a Loki series would join WandaVision and The Falcon and The Winter Soldier on Disney+ streaming service , Marvel fans weren’t quite sure what to expect, but with Tom Hiddleston returning as the titular god of mischief, it was certain to be entertaining. Digital Trends got an early look at the first two episodes of Loki ahead of the series’ June 9 premiere, and the opening arc of Marvel’s latest small-screen adventure doesn’t disappoint.
No notes needed Mischief meets emotion Cameos, Easter eggs, and secrets… Believe the hype Here are some spoiler-free notes on the first act of Marvel’s six-episode series, offering some hints about what you can look forward to when Loki returns to the screen.
Image used with permission by copyright holder No notes needed There’s a lot of history behind Loki , but fortunately, you don’t need to set aside time for a full Marvel Cinematic Universe marathon before the show’s premiere. The series premiere not only recaps the events in Avengers: Endgame and The Avengers that allowed Loki to effectively reboot his timeline, but also offers a convenient explanation of why this new, alternate path for the Asgardian trickster hasn’t changed other MCU events as we know them (yet).
The series finds Loki’s teleporting adventures cut short when he’s apprehended by the Time Variance Authority, an agency tasked with preserving the timestream from anyone who plays too fast and loose with historical events as they’re supposed to unfold. Given the chance to be erased from existence or assist the TVA, he chooses the latter — but not without his own sinister scheme, of course.
The best MCU shows, ranked Peggy Carter, first lady of the MCU The art of blowing up a planet: Behind the visual effects of Marvel’s Loki series There are a few things you should know before watching Loki that will probably be helpful, though, as Loki does reference some of its title character’s greatest (or perhaps, most infamous) moments in the Marvel movie-verse to date, so there will be major spoilers for anyone who comes in with a clean slate.
Mischief meets emotion It’s hard to believe anything you see when it comes to Loki, but Asgard’s notorious trickster has given MCU fans a glimpse of his less-villainous side here and there over the years. In just its first two episodes, Loki dives quite a bit deeper into his previously unexplored emotional core, and it manages to add layers to the character without sapping any of the unrepentant guile that has made him so fun to watch.
The series forces Loki to confront the sins and failings of his past — as well as the now-alternate future MCU fans know best — and the result is a reckoning that makes one of Marvel’s gods feel more human. Maintaining Loki’s superhuman “other-ness” while forging a very human connection isn’t an easy line to walk, but the series makes it look easy early on.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Cameos, Easter eggs, and secrets… There are plenty of surprises in the first two episodes of Loki , and we won’t spoil any of them here. However, you’ll want to pay attention to the details and keep the pause button handy to catch the myriad of little elements that make Loki even more rewarding.
Not all of the hidden treasures in Loki are Marvel-related, however, and his involvement with an agency that counts all of human history as its field of operations means there will be plenty of little call-outs to pop culture (both forgotten and familiar) from the past few decades. Everything from the type of soda certain characters drink to the desktop mementos they choose to display is worth noting if you want to fully immerse yourself in the weird, wonderful world of Loki.
Believe the hype All of these hints about what’s to come are fine, but is Loki as good as fans are hoping? Obviously, the answer will vary from one person to the next, but when it comes to meeting expectations, Loki delivers — and then some. The first two episodes of the series wisely let Hiddleston occupy as much of the spotlight as possible, and his Asgardian mischief-maker smirks and schemes his way through the show’s introductory act with reckless abandon.
With each of Loki’s numerous appearances in MCU films, the calls for an opportunity to see him go solo have become louder.
Loki is the realization of that potential, and it’s more than satisfying, even after more than a decade of anticipation.
Marvel’s Loki premieres June 9 on the Disney+ streaming service.
Editors' Recommendations Guardians of the Galaxy Vol. 3 introduces Marvel’s best villain since Thanos Disney will bring Andor’s first two episodes to Hulu and ABC Hawkeye gets a new trailer and a two-episode premiere Loki: What you need to know before watching Marvel’s Disney+ series The Falcon and The Winter Soldier: Highlights and Easter eggs from Episode 1 Comic Book Movies Disney+ Features Marvel Streaming Services Entertainment WandaVision | Official Trailer | Disney+ The Marvel Cinematic Universe begins a new chapter this week with WandaVision, the first project to debut from Phase Four of the studio's interconnected superhero saga, and the first major MCU release since 2019's Spider-Man: Far From Home.
Entertainment He's appeared in nearly every Marvel movie since 2008's Iron Man, so it shouldn't come as much of a surprise that Samuel L. Jackson will return as Nick Fury in an upcoming Disney+ series.
According to Variety, Jackson will star in the mysterious series, which has yet to be announced by Disney or Marvel Studios. The series will have him reprise his role as Nick Fury, the head of the international agency SHIELD in the Marvel Cinematic Universe.
Entertainment “Big Game” Spot | Marvel Studios | Disney+ Disney+ subscribers finally know when they'll get more new Star Wars and Marvel shows.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
