Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix F1 Live Stream Stranger Things Season 5 Best New Movies Most Popular Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney+ UFC Live Stream Best Movies on Disney+ Home Digital Trends Live Reel News: Reviews for the films Jojo Rabbit, Jexi, and Parasite By Todd Werkhoven Close Need help figuring out what movie to see this weekend? Look no further. Join Erin Keeney and Riley Winn for our Reel News segment, where they dive into the biggest movies opening this weekend and tell you if if anything at the box office is worth your hard-earned dollars. This week, we take a look at Jojo Rabbit , Jexi , and Parasite.
Jojo Rabbit – opens in select theaters October 18th Jexi – opens nationwide October 11th Parasite – Opens in select theaters October 11th Jojo Rabbit – opens in select theaters October 18th Jojo Rabbit , the new film by Taika Waititi, takes place during World War II and focuses around a young German boy named Jojo, who dreams of becoming a Nazi and whose imaginary friend is Adolf Hitler. When Jojo learns his mother is hiding a Jewish girl in the attic, things get complicated. Both a satire of dictatorships and a heartfelt coming-of-age story, Jojo Rabbit boasts an all-star cast including Sam Rockwell, Scarlett Johanssen, Rebel Wilson, and Waititi himself — as Hitler. Audiences and critics have been divided, but soon you will be able to decide for yourself.
Jojo Rabbit opens in select theaters on October 18. Get tickets now.
Jexi – opens nationwide October 11th Next, we have the comedy Jexi , the story of a down-on-his-luck clickbait listicle writer named Phil (Adam Devine) who’s addicted to his cell phone. After his new phone’s A.I. (named “Jexi”) becomes obsessed with him, Phil’s life is thrown into chaos. From the writers of The Hangover , Jexi is a cautionary tale about when you love your phone more than anything else in life. It also stars Rose Byrne, Justin Hartley, Michael Pena, and Wanda Sykes, “If you see one movie this weekend, it has to be Jexi ,” says Winn.
Jexi opens nationwide October 11. Get tickets now.
Reel News: The Invisible Man, Wendy, Guns Akimbo Reel News: Sonic The Hedgehog, Fantasy Island, The Photograph Reel News: The Gentlemen, The Turning, and The Rhythm Section Parasite – Opens in select theaters October 11th Last up, we have Parasite , a dark and twisted comedy about class conflict and greed. It’s a story about two families who clash, one rich and one poor. Tapping back into the same class struggle issues he so deftly explored in Snowpiercer , director Bong Joon Ho brings us this action-horror thriller that earned the Korean filmmaker the Palme d’Or at the Cannes Film Festival.
Parasite opens October 11. Get tickets now.
For past segments, go to https://www.digitaltrends.com/topic/reel-news/ Editors' Recommendations Reel News: Reviews of “The Hunt,” “Bloodshot,” and “My Spy” Reel News: Brahms: The Boy II, Greed, and The Night Clerk Reel News: Birds of Prey, The Lodge, and Come to Daddy Reel News: Just Mercy, Dr. Dolittle, and Bad Boys For Life Reel News: Reviews of 1917, IP Man 4, and Little Women Entertainment Digital Trends Live Digital Trends Live Welcome to Reel News, our weekly segment looking at what’s coming out in the box office, and what’s worth your money. Join Erin Keeney and Riley Winn as they take a look at A Hidden Life, Star Wars: The Rise of Skywalker, and Cats.
First up is A Hidden Life, based on the true story of an Austrian peasant farmer who was an unsung hero of World War II. After refusing to fight with Hitler, he was sent to prison for treason. From director Terrence Malick, who also wrote the screenplay, “the production value is gorgeous and the visual artistry is stunning,” says Keeney. “It’s a take on World War II I don’t think I’ve ever seen,” notes Winn. A Hidden Life opens in theaters December 13.
Digital Trends Live Welcome to Reel News, where Erin Keeney and Riley Winn break down the upcoming box office releases, and what’s going to be worth your money at theaters. This week we take a look at Jumanji: The Next Level, Uncut Gems, and Bombshell.
First up we have Jumanji: The Next Level, starring Dwayne (“The Rock”) Johnson, Kevin Hart, Karen Gillan, Jack Black, and more. Keeney notes, “The ensemble is so fun to watch,” with great additions like Awkwafina, Danny Glover, and Danny DeVito. “The last Jumanji (in 2017) made $1 billion worldwide,” Winn says, “The last movie was so funny and so entertaining, and the fact that they were able to bring everyone back for another movie is pretty awesome.” Jumanji: The Next Level opens in theaters nationwide on December 13.
Digital Trends Live Oops! We couldn't load this video player Welcome to Reel News, where Erin Keeney and Riley Winn break down the upcoming box office releases, and tell you what’s going to be worth your money at theaters. This week we take a look at Daniel Isn’t Real, In Fabric, and The Aeronauts.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
