Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix F1 Live Stream Stranger Things Season 5 Best New Movies Most Popular Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney+ UFC Live Stream Best Movies on Disney+ Home Entertainment Guides The best Black Mirror episodes By Christine Persaud and Rick Marshall Close Charlie Brooker’s award-winning sci-fi series Black Mirror is like a new generation’s version of The Twilight Zone (which recently returned to television ), but with a modern, technology-driven twist. The series’ dark, ominous stories examine what might happen if technological development, and our seemingly innocuous digital habits, were taken too far. Surprise endings or terrifying awakenings are at the core of every episode, so it’s no surprise that each of the short but compelling seasons has mesmerized viewers and, with everything going on in the world right now, occasionally hit close to home in unexpected ways.
10. USS Callister 9. Arkangel 8. Hated in the Nation 7. Fifteen Million Merits 6. Nosedive 5. White Christmas 4. San Junipero 3. Bandersnatch 2. The Entire History of You 1. Be Right Back Bonus: Black Museum More Sci-Fi TV News The truth is out there: These are the 10 best X-Files episodes Great sci-fi books to read before they become TV shows The best Twilight Zone episodes In 2015, Netflix outbid the U.K.’s Channel 4 for the Britain-born series, commissioning 12 episodes that were to be divided equally into the third and fourth seasons. Season 3 debuted in October 2016, and season 4 was released in December 2017.
 The series earned two Primetime Emmy Awards in 2017, and in March of that year, the streaming platform announced it had renewed the series for a fifth season.
 Season 5 debuted June 5, 2019, with just three episodes, making it the shortest season to date. However, in December 2018 before the arrival of season 5, Netflix released the full-length feature Black Mirror: Bandersnatch , which took an innovative, interactive approach to its mind-bending narrative. Season 6 is due sometime in 2020.
The best stand-up comedy on Netflix right now 7 best Peaky Blinders episodes, ranked RIP Matthew Perry: A look back at Chandler’s best Friends episodes After having indulged in all 22 thought-provoking episodes and one movie to date, we’ve selected the cream of the crop — the 10 best stories, which we’ve ranked from 10th to our absolute favorite Black Mirror tale.
Note: There are a lot of spoilers ahead.
10. USS Callister Season 4, episode 1 Image used with permission by copyright holder When you start watching the first episode of the latest season of Black Mirror , you might initially think you selected the wrong series when this Star Trek -inspired episode begins. It’s a departure from what Black Mirror fans are used to, featuring comedic elements and special effects. But don’t be fooled: Dark, sinister undertones are still at the heart of the story.
The episode looks at what happens when a reclusive and bitter tech programmer and video game company co-founder uses a secret, simulated world in his game to become the powerful man he wishes he was in real life. Everyone who has crossed him becomes a digital clone in the virtual world, unable to escape this alternate life of torture — they are his digital slaves whenever he decides to plug in and “play.” The episode has been so popular that it has led to talk of a potential spinoff series.
9. Arkangel Season 4, episode 2 Image used with permission by copyright holder How much use of parental controls is too much? We get a glimpse in this episode, directed by Jodie Foster , when a mother signs her young child up for an implant with the intention of being able to locate her if she gets lost. But, like plenty of technology today, she gets caught up in those seemingly harmless added features, including livestreaming the child’s point of view, filtering out inappropriate or frightening images (ranging from brutal violence and blood to a menacing dog), and even checking vitals like an amped-up activity tracker. As the episode rapidly moves through time, mom finds that having the control at her fingertips is too much to resist, and her meddling backfires in more ways than one.
8. Hated in the Nation Season 3, episode 6 Image used with permission by copyright holder Every action should have consequences, and that also applies to the internet, where people often hide behind a cloak of anonymity. A seemingly harmless Twitter hashtag, #DeathTo, becomes far more sinister when someone decides to take the tweet requests literally. It’s a horrifying “I’ll show you” wake-up call for those who view the internet as a place where they can post harmful content without consequence — something that has become a hot-button topic in recent years.
7. Fifteen Million Merits Season 1, episode 2 Image used with permission by copyright holder Ever watch reality TV “stars” and think of them as mere hamsters in a celebrity cage who do whatever is necessary to get their so-called 15 minutes of fame? Their misfortunes and mistakes are turned into ad-fueled spectacles, and this episode takes this notion and runs with it. In this warped depiction of society, people are literally trapped in an enclosed space with constant screen stimulation, and forced to ride stationary bikes to acquire “merits” that can be exchanged for necessities and niceties. When they finally make it onto an X-Factor -esque reality series, two of these people get something they weren’t expecting.
6. Nosedive Season 3, episode 1 Image used with permission by copyright holder Starring Bryce Dallas Howard , this episode offers a terrifying look at what could become of our obsessions with social media approval and attention. In this new world, social ranking, including how many “likes” you get, not only influences how you think about yourself but serves as actual currency. Everyone from the man who serves you coffee in the morning to your Uber driver and co-workers can make or break your social “rating” based on their interactions with you. Your overall score can affect a job promotion, where you shop, or even live. Consequently, it creates a Stepford Wives -like society where no one is comfortable showing their true feelings.
5. White Christmas Season 2, episode 4 Image used with permission by copyright holder If technology could literally remove people from your life by making you unable to physically see them, and trap a person within his own consciousness, this episode reveals what that might look like. Not only is one such man a prisoner of his own mind, but he’s stuck reliving Christmas Day and a moment where he realizes he has killed an older man and caused a young child to die. Look out for Jon Hamm in a key role.
4. San Junipero Season 3, episode 4 Image used with permission by copyright holder Universally lauded and the winner of two Emmys , this touching episode explores the idea of life and death, as well as existing in a simulated reality. While much of the story follows two very opposite young women in the ’80s exploring their romantic love for one another, the underlying theme is that of “life” after death. Both women are actually elderly, one a quadriplegic, but experiencing this “life” virtually. They’re faced with a tough decision: Do they vacate their ailing human bodies and join one another in a simulated reality, living out “life” through their conscious minds after death? 3. Bandersnatch Image used with permission by copyright holder Released between the fourth and fifth seasons of the series, this stand-alone movie ranks among the best Black Mirror entries to date not just for its fascinating story of a young computer programmer attempting to adapt a sprawling fantasy novel while battling his own psychological demons (real and imagined), but also for the way it tells the tale.
Bandersnatch is presented in an interactive, “choose your own adventure”-style narrative that lets viewers influence the main character’s actions and determine how the story unfolds. A myriad of plot twists, recursive story elements, and diverse endings await the film’s audience, and much like the series’ best episodes, Bandersnatch breaks new ground in ways that keep you thinking about it long after the story ends.
2. The Entire History of You Season 1, episode 3 Image used with permission by copyright holder Imagine being able to record everything you see and hear. A “grain” implanted behind the ear in this fictional world does just that, allowing you to play back an argument, conversation, childhood memory — pretty much anything — at any given time. While it might seem fun and useful at first, such power can lead to unfortunate events. One man in this episode discovers how what might sound great in theory can quickly turn very dark.
1. Be Right Back Season 2, episode 1 Image used with permission by copyright holder Big brands can devise entire profiles of us based on the personal information we share online, what we like or comment on, and even how we interact with others via social media. This episode explores just how much of “you” can be discerned from this massive database of information that’s being stockpiled online. When a man dies, his wife tempts fate, first by using technology that simulates his voice and personality on the phone, then eventually upgrading to a synthetic android likeness of her dearly departed. Can we really artificially re-create a person, and all of his quirks, based on algorithms? Bonus: Black Museum Season 4, episode 6 Image used with permission by copyright holder This episode, which beautifully capped off season 4, deserves an honorable mention. It includes its own mini-anthology, along with tons of Easter Eggs from previous episodes. A young woman happens upon a Black Museum run by a clear sociopath, and featuring a variety of old technologies gone wrong. As she scans the room, she eyes some familiar devices, including the DNA scanner from the latest season’s inaugural episode, USS Callister , the tablet device from Arkangel , and an autonomous drone from Hated in the Natio n. It also brings together many of the themes of past episodes, including the woman’s reference to putting old people in the cloud, a call back to San Junipero , and the tiny, circular-looking devices that plug into peoples’ heads to do everything from copy consciousness to store memories.
Editors' Recommendations The best Black movies on Netflix right now 3 best shows like American Horror Story you should watch The best Netflix original series right now The best David Tennant Doctor Who episodes The 10 best Star Trek: Voyager episodes, ranked Audio / Video Entertainment Even though Suits was released back in 2011, the series, which aired for nine seasons through 2019, has been experiencing a resurgence of late thanks to streaming on Netflix. It’s for good reason: The drama is gripping, enthralling, witty, and clever. It’s your garden variety legal drama with a unique twist. Mike Ross (Patrick J. Adams) has an incredible mind and eidetic memory, and he gets hired to work for a prestigious law firm. But there’s one small detail: He never actually passed the bar and in fact, was kicked out of Harvard for taking the LSATs for other students. The implications of this for him and the firm, not to mention every case he worked on while there, create an unseen, building tension the entire way through.
Every episode of Suits is well-written and acted. From episodes that explore the dynamics between talented but arrogant top lawyer Harvey Specter (Gabriel Macht) and the insecure rival (and partner) Louis Litt (Rick Hoffman) to Harvey and Mike’s budding bromance, and even the episode that delves into Harvey and Mike’s backstories (that one actually ranks highest by IMDb users), it’s tough to pick out the best ones. But if you’re going to watch any five, these are all worth it.
Pilot (season 1, episode 1) Entertainment Ronald D. Moore’s Battlestar Galactica reboot simply would not happen in 2023. This isn’t to say a Battlestar Galactica reboot wouldn’t get made today — in fact, there’s been one in the works at Universal for the past couple of years — but it simply wouldn’t look anything like what audiences were treated to when the three-hour BSG miniseries premiered on the Sci-Fi Channel in 2003.
We live in the age of the requel, of legacy characters and continuations of long-dormant franchises, not of reworkings and reimaginings. The entire point of modern studios’ obsession with established intellectual property is to cater to existing fan bases, to avoid risk by giving them more of what they already like. When the new BSG first aired, fans of the original hated it. Loudly. Not only did this reimagining completely throw away the continuity of the 1978 series and its spinoff, but it was a completely different kind of show, a hard and deeply political military sci-fi drama rather than a rousing space adventure.
While this might have infuriated the original audience, the new Battlestar Galactica attracted a totally fresh one, and became one of the biggest critical darlings of the 2000s. Its unflinching look at a wounded and paranoid society walking the line between democracy and military dictatorship was poignant and powerful to an audience of Americans coping with the shock of the September 11th attacks and the War on Terror that followed. The series would go on to win a Peabody Award, its cast and producers were invited to speak at the United Nations, and despite the general consensus that its later seasons declined in quality, it continues to rank on many publication’s lists of the greatest television shows all time. It’s a testament to what you can create when you refresh an old idea because you have a story you want to tell, not just a brand you want to exploit.
Picking the top 10 episodes for this list was practically impossible – this could very well have been made up entirely out of episodes from the first season, or the entire first half of season 2. Every season or midseason finale could have made the cut, and if we didn’t restrain ourselves, all four parts of season 3’s New Caprica arc would have had their own entries. This is just where we’ve landed on this particular day, and if you ask us tomorrow, it might be totally different. After all, all of this has happened before, and all of this will happen again … Major spoilers follow for the entire series.
10. Bastille Day (season 1, episode 3) Entertainment It’s hard to imagine today, but back in the late 1960s, the original Star Trek was not considered a hit. The ambitious science fiction series was constantly on the brink of cancellation and was cut short only three years into its planned five-season run.
However, it’s important to put Trek’s apparent failure into historical context as, given that most markets in the U.S. had only three television channels to choose from, even a low-rated show like Star Trek was being watched by about 20% of everyone watching television on a Thursday night, or roughly 10 million households. This year’s season of HBO’s Succession was viewed by roughly 8 million households a week, which makes it a hit by today's standards. Star Trek’s audience only grew once it went into reruns in the early 1970s, and by the time Star Trek: The Motion Picture hit theaters in 1979, it was a genuine cultural phenomenon. Today, the Star Trek franchise is considered one of the crown jewels of the Paramount library.
Though arguably outshined by its most prosperous spinoff, Star Trek: The Next Generation, Star Trek: The Original Series holds up remarkably well for a vision of our future imagined nearly 60 years in our past. It’s a space adventure series that tackles social or political issues from what was, at the time, a daring and progressive perspective informed by the contemporary civil rights movement, sexual revolution, and backlash against the Vietnam War. Conveying these values through fanciful science fiction didn’t only allow its writers to get away with a lot of subversive messages, it also delivered them in a way that remains fun to watch decades later — fun enough that fans are willing to forgive when its ideas, or its special effects, crumble under modern scrutiny.
These 10 episodes, however, unquestionably stand the test of time, and thanks to the continuity-light nature of mid-20th century television, any one of them could be your first Star Trek episode. (Be aware, however, that the order in which classic Trek episodes are listed varies depending on the source. For our purposes, we’re using the numbering from streaming service Paramount+.) 10. Mirror, Mirror (season 2, episode 4) Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
