Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Netflix Original Movies Best Comedies on Netflix Best Netflix Original Series Best Anime on Netflix Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Fantasy Movies on Netflix Home Entertainment Guides The best thrillers on Netflix right now By Blair Marnell , Christine Persaud and Michael Bizzaco Close Netflix may not have many sci-fi movies or fantasy films, but it does have an abundance of thrillers. There are so many thrillers on Netflix that it has to be one of the streamer’s most popular genres. Between the original films and the new and classic films from other studios, Netflix is a prime destination for thrill-loving movie fans.
This month, Netflix added a number of thrillers including the original film, Locked In , as well as Cop Land , The Next Three Days , and Sea of Love.
 So if you’re looking to find the best thrillers on Netflix right now, all you have to do is scroll down.
We’ve also rounded up the best thrillers on Amazon Prime Video and the best thrillers on Hulu if Netflix doesn’t have what you’re looking for.
Locked In 2023 Cop Land r 1997 Sea of Love r 1989 The Next Three Days pg-13 2010 Locked In (2023) new 96m Thriller Famke Janssen, Rose Williams, Alex Hassell Nour Wazzi watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Locked In apparently starts in the aftermath of an attempted murder, and only gets more twisted from there. Someone tried to kill Katherine (Famke Janssen), and they must have come pretty close to succeeding because she’s become trapped in her own body and left unable to move or properly communicate with the exception of her eyes.
Suspicion immediately falls on Lina (Rose Williams), a young woman who is both Katherine’s adoptive daughter and her daughter-in-law. Nurse Mackenzie (Anna Friel) is determined to get to the bottom of this mystery, but she may be kicking the proverbial hornet’s nest by asking questions that shouldn’t be asked.
Read less The 10 best characters in the Hunger Games movies, ranked The best Hulu original series right now 5 best death game movies you should watch right now Cop Land (1997) new r 104m Crime, Drama, Mystery Sylvester Stallone, Harvey Keitel, Ray Liotta James Mangold watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Back in 1997, the talk in Hollywood was that Cop Land was going to land Sylvester Stallone a Best Actor nomination. It didn’t work out that way, but director James Mangold’s second film really holds up even decades after its release. Stallone plays Freddy Heflin, the Sheriff of the small town of Garrison, New Jersey, which is home to a number of crooked New York cops, including Ray Donlan (Harvey Keitel), Gary “Figgsy” Figgis (Ray Liotta), and Jack Rucker (Robert Patrick).
Heflin is so blinded by his loyalty and adulation for the dirty cops that he ignores I.A. investigator Moe Tilden ( Robert De Niro ) and his attempts to get him to testify against them. But when Dolan’s nephew, Murray “Superboy” Babitch (Michael Rapaport), is caught trying to plant evidence on his own questionable shooting, it sets in motion a series of events that may bring the hierarchy of Garrison down, if Heflin can stay along long enough to see it through.
Read less Sea of Love (1989) new r 113m Crime, Drama, Romance, Mystery, Thriller Al Pacino, Ellen Barkin, John Goodman Harold Becker watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Sea of Love is one of those thrillers that could only happen in the ‘80s. Al Pacino stars as Detective Frank Keller, a man who hasn’t quite gotten over his divorce yet. At the same time, a serial killer is apparently murdering men who placed rhyming personal ads in the newspaper.
With the help of Detective Sherman Touhey (John Goodman), Keller sets up a sting operation to see who responds to their rhyming personal ads. One of the women who replies is Helen Cruger (Ellen Barkin), whom Keller just can’t resist starting a relationship with. Yet once he’s with Helen, Keller is forced to wonder whether she could be the serial killer he’s been trying to find.
Read less The Next Three Days (2010) new pg-13 133m Romance, Drama, Thriller, Crime Russell Crowe, Elizabeth Banks, Brian Dennehy Paul Haggis watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Russell Crowe headlines The Next Three Days as John Brennan, a man whose world is turned upside down when his wife, Lara Brennan (Elizabeth Banks), is arrested and convicted of murder. Three years later, Lara is suicidal and the family’s legal options have dried up. That’s when John takes the rather drastic step of planning to break his wife out of prison.
To do so, John consults with Damon Pennington (Liam Neeson), a man who has escaped prison multiple times. But as John’s panic and paranoia grow, he learns that Lara will be transferred to another prison in just three days. So if this crazy plan is ever going to happen, it has to be right now.
Read less Fair Play (2023) r 113m Drama, Thriller Phoebe Dynevor, Alden Ehrenreich, Sebastian de Souza Chloe Domont watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Netflix’s new thriller, Fair Play , follows a couple, Luke (Alden Ehrenreich) and Emily (Phoebe Dynevor), when their relationship is challenged by their mutual ambition. The pair keep their romance a secret from their co-workers at One Crest Capital. That only works for them until a promotion comes up, and Emily gets the job instead of Luke.
Although Luke initially takes the news well, he soon becomes obsessed with the idea that Emily’s success came at his own expense. This puts a lot of intense pressure on their relationship, especially when Emily discovers that Luke may be fired. And if Emily isn’t careful, she may lose more than just her romance.
Read less Reptile (2023) r 136m Thriller, Crime, Drama, Mystery Benicio del Toro, Justin Timberlake, Alicia Silverstone Grant Singer watch on Netflix watch on Netflix The brutal murder of Summer Elswick (Matilda Lutz) is the beginning of the mystery in Reptile , a thriller starring Benicio del Toro as Detective Tom Nichols (del Toro), the man in charge of the murder investigation. Summer’s body was found by her boyfriend, Will Grady (Justin Timberlake), but there are suspicious details that may draw suspicion to all of the men in Summer’s life.
Nichols is able to share some of the details with his wife, Judy (Alicia Silverstone), who acts as a sounding board for him. Regardless, the unfolding case forces Nichols to more closely examine his own life as well. However, he may not like what he finds.
Read less The Firm (1993) r 154m Drama, Mystery, Thriller Tom Cruise, Jeanne Tripplehorn, Gene Hackman Sydney Pollack watch on Netflix watch on Netflix John Grisham’s legal thrillers ruled the ‘90s, and few were bigger than The Firm.
 Tom Cruise stars as Mitch McDeere, a hot shot young lawyer who gets the offer of a lifetime to join the law firm Bendini, Lambert & Locke. It’s a dream gig that includes a new house, a high salary, and other fringe benefits.
What Mitch doesn’t realize until it’s too late is that the firm is immersed in the world of organized crime, and no one gets out alive if they cross the bosses. When FBI Agent Wayne Tarrance (Ed Harris) pressures Mitch to provide evidence against his employers, the walls start closing in on him. Only Mitch’s wife, Abby McDeere (Jeanne Tripplehorn), can help him, and he’s already alienated her by having an affair.
Read less Backdraft (1991) r 137m Drama, Thriller, Action, Crime Kurt Russell, William Baldwin, Robert De Niro Ron Howard watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Ron Howard’s Backdraft focuses on two Chicago firefighters: Lieutenant Stephen “Bull” McCaffrey (Kurt Russell), and his younger brother, Brian McCaffrey (William Baldwin). The two McCaffrey brothers don’t see eye-to-eye, and Bull openly questions whether Brian has what it takes to be a fireman if he can get past his probationary period.
When an arsonist strikes in the city, Brian clashes with Bull when one of their own is seriously injured. And as Brian looks into the case, he realizes that only someone with experience as a firefight could be behind the arson. Can the brothers put their differences aside in time to prevent any further injuries or deaths? Read less Don't Worry Darling (2022) r 123m Thriller, Mystery, Drama, Science Fiction Florence Pugh, Harry Styles, Chris Pine Olivia Wilde watch on Netflix watch on Netflix There’s something weird happening in the desert town of Victory, California, in Olivia Wilde’s mind-bending thriller Don’t Worry Darling.
 Alice (Florence Pugh), Bunny (Wilde), Margaret (KiKi Layne), and the rest of the housewives are expected to stay at home while their husbands spend their days working for the enigmatic Frank (Chris Pine).
For a while, Alice is able to blissfully live with her husband, Jack (Harry Styles). But when Alice witnesses a plane crash in the desert, she is suddenly forced to question the things about her life that don’t make sense. And soon, she’ll learn the truth about Victory.
Read less Snitch (2013) pg-13 112m Thriller, Drama, Action Dwayne Johnson, Barry Pepper, Susan Sarandon Ric Roman Waugh watch on Netflix watch on Netflix How far would you go to keep your son out of jail? In Snitch , John Matthews (Dwayne Johnson) is horrified when his son, Jason (Rafi Gavron), is set up by his friend and quickly sentenced to a decade in jail for drug smuggling Out of desperation, John offers to help District Attorney Joanne Keeghan ( Blue Beetle ‘s Susan Sarandon) trap a larger target in return for reducing his son’s sentence.
To do so, John will have to betray Daniel James (Jon Bernthal), one of his ex-con employees, by convincing him to be his guide to the criminal underworld. By the time Daniel realizes that John is using him, it may be too late for both men to escape unscathed.
Read less Captain Phillips (2013) pg-13 134m Action, Drama, Thriller Tom Hanks, Barkhad Abdi, Barkhad Abdirahman Paul Greengrass watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Captain Phillips is based on the real story of Richard Phillips (Tom Hanks), the captain of the cargo ship MV Maersk Alabama, which was hijacked by Somali pirates in 2009. The film starts its story before that incident, and it includes a previously thwarted attempt to hijack the ship. However, Abduwali Muse (Barkhad Abdi) and his men refuse to be deterred before ultimately taking the ship.
Although the crew of the ship manages to elude the pirates by hiding in the engine room, Phillips is held hostage by Muse and held at gunpoint. And even when the hijacking begins to backfire, the pirates refuse to let Phillips go.
Read less River Wild (2023) pg-13 92m Mystery, Thriller, Adventure Adam Brody, Leighton Meester, Taran Killam Ben Ketai watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Nearly three decades ago, Meryl Streep and Kevin Bacon headlined a white-water thriller called The River Wild.
 And while River Wild isn’t quite a remake, it’s not really a sequel either. Leighton Meester stars as Joey, a woman who has trust issues with her brother, Gray (Taran Killam). Much to Joey’s chagrin, Gary invites one of their childhood friends, Trevor (Adam Brody), on a white-water trip with two other people.
When one of their party is attacked, Joey realizes that the only option to save them is by braving the waters to get help. But there may be a killer among the group, and Joey isn’t sure who she can trust.
Read less Non-Stop (2014) pg-13 106m Action, Thriller, Mystery Liam Neeson, Julianne Moore, Scoot McNairy Jaume Collet-Serra watch on Netflix watch on Netflix On an overnight trip from New York to London, ex-cop turned Air Marshal Bill Marks (Liam Neeson) faces the longest flight of his life in director Jaume Collet-Serra’s action thriller Non-Stop.
 Shortly after the flight, Marks gets a text warning him that someone on the plane will be killed in 20 minutes unless a high ransom is paid.
Marks initially suspects the other Air Marshal on the flight, Jack Hammond (Anson Mount). But when the bodies start piling up, Marks realizes that he’s been framed for these crimes and he has no idea who his true enemy is.
Read less In the Line of Fire (1993) r 128m Action, Drama, Thriller, Crime, Mystery Clint Eastwood, John Malkovich, Rene Russo Wolfgang Petersen watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Clint Eastwood plays an aging Secret Service Agent, Frank Horrigan, in the classic thriller, In the Line of Fire.
 Three decades earlier, Horrigan failed to protect President John F. Kennedy from an assassin’s bullet. Now, a killer calling himself Booth (John Malkovich) sends Horrigan taunting messages about his intent to murder the current President (Jim Curley).
Horrigan manages to get himself back on the President’s security detail, and he finds a potential romance with a much younger agent, Lilly Raines (Rene Russo). However, Booth plans to humiliate and demoralize Horrigan before ultimately pursuing his target.
Read less The Mule (2018) r 116m Crime, Drama, Thriller Clint Eastwood, Bradley Cooper, Laurence Fishburne Clint Eastwood watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Chances are good that The Mule may be one of Clint Eastwood’s final films, and it doesn’t start out as a thriller. Eastwood’s character, Earl Stone, is facing financial ruin until he receives an unexpected offer to be a drug mule for a cartel. And for a while, Earl’s life is charmed. He’s got all of the money he could ever want, and he’s a legend among the cartel.
The arrival of Gustavo (Clifton Collins Jr.), the new head of the cartel, is a wake-up call for Earl and that’s where the film becomes a thriller. Suddenly, Earl realizes that taking the cartel’s money has left him in an impossible situation, especially since DEA Agent Colin Bates (Bradley Cooper) is closing in on him. Now, there are no easy ways out for Earl and he stands to lose everything that matters to him.
Read less Run Rabbit Run (2023) 100m Horror, Thriller Sarah Snook, Greta Scacchi, Damon Herriman Daina Reid watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Sarah Snook ( Succession ) headlines Run Rabbit Run , a thriller that takes some horrific turns. Sarah (Snook) is a single mother with a contentious relationship with her ex-husband, Peter (Damon Herriman). But Sarah’s real problem is with her daughter, Mia (Lily LaTorre). Inexplicably, Mia has taken on a new persona and declared that she is someone named Alice.
While Sarah doesn’t believe her daughter at first, the evidence mounts that Mia’s behavior somehow is tied to a dark episode in Sarah’s past. Something unnatural is happening with Mia, and Sarah may pay the price for keeping her secrets for so many years.
Read less God's Crooked Lines (2022) 155m Drama, Mystery, Thriller Bárbara Lennie, Eduard Fernández, Loreto Mauleón Oriol Paulo watch on Netflix watch on Netflix You might want to watch God’s Crooked Lines with subtitles, otherwise, you may miss some critical details in this Spanish thriller. Bárbara Lennie stars as Alice Gould, a woman who has herself institutionalized by her husband, Heliodoro (David Selvas), in the late ‘70s and she finds herself under the care of Doctor Teodoro Ruipérez (Federico Aguado). However, Alice has her own hidden agenda as she tries to solve a murder while feigning mental illness.
Some of the creeps that Alice encounters, including the Gnome (Luis Sacristán), the Elephant Man (Francisco Javier Pastor), and the twins Romulo and Remo (both played by Samuel Soler). The scary part is that the staff at the institute pick apart Alice’s story and raise questions about whether she is an investigator or if she is simply paranoid and delusional.
Read less Missing (2023) pg-13 111m Thriller, Mystery Storm Reid, Joaquim de Almeida, Ken Leung Nicholas D. Johnson, Will Merrick watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Could you solve a mystery from the safety of your computer? That’s the challenge facing Grace Allen (Storm Reid) in Missing when her mother, Grace Allen (Nia Long), and her new boyfriend, Kevin (Ken Leung), disappear during their vacation to Columbia. While scrambling for answers, Grace finds evidence that Kevin may have hidden some suspicious details about his past.
With Grace stuck in the U.S., she has to turn to a man named Javier (Joaquim de Almeida) to act as her proxy in Columbia. But there’s only so much Grace can do before she has to head into danger herself.
Read less The Pale Blue Eye (2022) r 130m Crime Christian Bale, Harry Melling, Lucy Boynton Scott Cooper watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Given its extremely short stay in theaters in late 2022, you probably missed seeing The Pale Blue Eye when it was on the big screen. But the cast is too good for this movie to simply disappear among the other streaming thrillers. Christian Bale headlines the film as Augustus Landor, a former detective who has fallen on hard times following the death of his wife.
When Leroy Fry (Steven Maier), a cadet at West Point, is found ritualistically murdered, Landor is coaxed out of retirement to solve the mystery. But Landor can’t do it alone, which is why he turns to one of Fry’s classmates to act as his partner on the case: Cadet Edgar Allan Poe (Harry Melling).
Read less The Snowman (2017) r 119m Crime, Thriller Michael Fassbender, Rebecca Ferguson, Charlotte Gainsbourg Tomas Alfredson watch on Netflix watch on Netflix It’s very appropriate that Michael Fassbender’s character in The Snowman is a detective named Harry Hole, because his life is in a deep hole when the story opens. Harry has broken up with the woman he loves, Rakel Fauke (Charlotte Gainsbourg), while struggling with his sobriety. Unfortunately for Harry, a serial killer has already started sending him enigmatic messages.
Harry’s new partner, Katrine Bratt ( Silo ‘s Rebecca Ferguson), is convinced that the killer is somehow linked to a case that was once investigated by Gert Rafto (Val Kilmer), an alcoholic former detective who was very much like Harry himself. But as the mystery intensifies, Harry realizes that Katrine has a personal connection that fuels her obsession with the case.
Read less Dragged Across Concrete (2018) r 159m Crime, Action, Thriller Mel Gibson, Vince Vaughn, Tory Kittles S. Craig Zahler watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Written and directed by S. Craig Zahler, Dragged Across Concrete boasts an ensemble cast featuring Mel Gibson, Vince Vaughn, Don Johnson, and many other players. The story focuses on police officers Brett Ridgeman and Anthony Lurasetti (Gibson and Vaughn), partners expelled from the force after video goes viral of them viciously beating a drug dealer.
Over on the other side of town, recent parolee Henry (Tory Kittles) and childhood friend “Biscuit” (Michael Jai White) get into cahoots with a professional thief (played by Thomas Krestchmann), who just so happens to be targeted by the cash-hungry Brett and Anthony. A riveting crime epic from start to finish, Dragged Across Concrete delivers one propulsive thrill after the next.
Read less I See You (2019) r 98m Thriller, Mystery, Horror, Crime Helen Hunt, Jon Tenney, Owen Teague Adam Randall watch on Netflix watch on Netflix I See You is the kind of thriller that presents multiple twists and turns, keeping viewers griveted and guessing throughout its entire runtime. Directed by Adam Randall, this slow-burning tale stars Jon Tenney as Detective Greg Harper. Tasked with investigating a missing person’s case, evidence of the crime starts piling up that points toward a series of abductions that took place nearly 15 years before.
But as Harper’s case continues to unfold, his grip on reality weakens, as strange events begin taking place in his home. You’ll start this film thinking one thing, only to be totally redirected multiple times throughout. And thanks to Randall’s assured direction, this is a film you won’t soon forget about.
Read less 47 Meters Down: Uncaged (2019) pg-13 90m Horror, Drama, Adventure Sophie Nélisse, Corinne Foxx, Brianne Tju Johannes Roberts watch on Netflix watch on Netflix A sequel to 47 Meters Down (2017), 47 Meters Down: Uncaged brings a whole new cast of characters to the mix, but keeps the threat of shark bite death alive. When four teenagers dive down to the remains of a sunken Mayan city, what begins as a life-changing discovery quickly becomes a harrowing fight for survival when the group discovers that the ancient place is a magnet for man-eating sharks.
While not straying too far from classic “shark movie” tropes, Uncaged instead ups the ante in the shocks department, delivering plenty of bone-chilling sequences that will have us all thinking twice about taking a plunge into any body of water.
Read less All Quiet on the Western Front (2022) r 147m War, Drama, Action Felix Kammerer, Albrecht Schuch, Aaron Hilmer Edward Berger watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Read less I Came By (2022) r 110m Thriller George MacKay, Percelle Ascott, Kelly Macdonald Babak Anvari watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Read less Circle (2015) r 87m Science Fiction, Mystery, Drama, Thriller, Horror Julie Benz, Carter Jenkins, Cesar Garcia Aaron Hann, Mario Miscione watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Read less The Good Nurse (2022) r 121m Drama, Crime, Mystery Jessica Chastain, Eddie Redmayne, Noah Emmerich Tobias Lindholm watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Adapted from the true-crime novel of the same name, The Good Nurse stars Jessica Chastain as Amy Loughren, a single mother and ICU nurse. When a series of untimely patient deaths start cropping up around the hospital, Amy begins to suspect that new hire Charles Cullen (Eddie Redmayne) is the man responsible. Both Chastain and Redmayne are the kind of talents we expect greatness from, and truly, both actors go out of their way to foster a sort of surreal pathos for their characters, especially the latter. It’s a solid thriller and a tragic and haunting reminder that we don’t have to dig into fiction to tell some of the most grueling stories imaginable.
Read less Lou (2022) r 107m Action, Thriller, Drama Allison Janney, Jurnee Smollett, Logan Marshall-Green Anna Foerster watch on Netflix watch on Netflix If you’re in the mood for something a little more on the action-heavy side, director Anna Foerster’s Lou will likely satiate. It stars Allison Janney as the titular protagonist, a reclusive woman living on Orcas Island, Washington. When a wicked storm threatens the Pacific Northwest, a single mother named Hannah (Jurnee Smollet) begs Lou for help when her young daughter is kidnapped by a vicious ex-pat (Logan Marshall-Green). But as the two women set off on their rescue mission, Hannah soon learns that there’s far more to Lou than meets the eye. A grim gut-punch of an action-thriller, Lou is a big win for the genre.
Read less The Stranger (2022) r 117m Crime, Drama, Mystery, Thriller Joel Edgerton, Sean Harris, Jada Alberts Thomas M. Wright watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Read less Inheritance (2020) r 110m Thriller Lily Collins, Simon Pegg, Connie Nielsen Vaughn Stein watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Read less A Walk Among the Tombstones (2014) r 114m Crime, Drama, Mystery, Thriller Liam Neeson, Dan Stevens, David Harbour Scott Frank watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Read less Munich: The Edge of War (2022) pg-13 129m Drama, History George MacKay, Jannis Niewöhner, Sandra Hüller Christian Schwochow watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Read less The Platform (2019) r 95m Drama, Science Fiction, Thriller Iván Massagué, Antonia San Juan, Zorion Eguileor Galder Gaztelu-Urrutia watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Read less Spiderhead (2022) r 107m Science Fiction, Thriller Chris Hemsworth, Miles Teller, Jurnee Smollett Joseph Kosinski watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Read less Interceptor (2022) r 98m Action, Thriller, Adventure Elsa Pataky, Luke Bracey, Aaron Glenane Matthew Reilly watch on Netflix watch on Netflix In director Matt Reilly’s Interceptor , Elsa Pataky stars as Captain JJ Collins, the spearhead of an isolated nuclear missile facility smack-dab in the middle of the Pacific Ocean. When the weapons hub falls under attack from enemy forces led by a former U.S. intelligence operative (Luke Bracey), Collins must use her military background and quick ingenuity to thwart the evildoers before they overrun the base.
Interceptor is a decent example of a Netflix-backed action-thriller, driven by a kinetic pace that hits all the beats but misses here and there. A refreshing change of pace is seeing a woman in a role that would normally be helmed by Bruce Willis, and Pataky tackles her heroine character with muscle and grace.
Read less Operation Mincemeat (2022) pg-13 128m War, History, Drama Colin Firth, Matthew Macfadyen, Kelly Macdonald John Madden watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Read less Triple Frontier (2019) r 125m Action, Thriller, Crime, Adventure Ben Affleck, Oscar Isaac, Charlie Hunnam J.C. Chandor watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Read less Lost Bullet (2020) r 92m Action, Thriller, Crime Alban Lenoir, Nicolas Duvauchelle, Rod Paradot Guillaume Pierret watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Read less The Devil All the Time (2020) r 138m Crime, Drama, Thriller Tom Holland, Bill Skarsgård, Riley Keough Antonio Campos watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Read less Windfall (2022) r 92m Crime, Drama, Thriller Jason Segel, Lily Collins, Jesse Plemons Charlie McDowell watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Read less The Weekend Away (2022) r 89m Thriller, Mystery Leighton Meester, Christina Wolfe, Ziad Bakri Kim Farrant watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Read less Extremely Wicked, Shockingly Evil and Vile (2019) r 111m Crime Zac Efron, Lily Collins, Kaya Scodelario Joe Berlinger watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Read less Stowaway (2021) pg-13 117m Science Fiction, Drama, Thriller Anna Kendrick, Daniel Dae Kim, Shamier Anderson Joe Penna watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Read less Fever Dream (2021) r 93m Thriller, Drama, Mystery, Horror María Valverde, Guillermo Pfening, Dolores Fonzi Claudia Llosa watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Read less Extraction (2020) r 116m Drama, Action, Thriller Chris Hemsworth, Rudhraksh Jaiswal, Randeep Hooda Sam Hargrave watch on Amazon watch on Amazon Read less The Ice Road (2021) pg-13 108m Action, Adventure, Drama, Thriller Liam Neeson, Marcus Thomas, Laurence Fishburne Jonathan Hensleigh watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Read less Synchronic (2020) r 101m Science Fiction, Drama, Thriller, Horror Anthony Mackie, Jamie Dornan, Katie Aselton Aaron Moorhead, Justin Benson watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Read less Forgotten (2017) r 108m Thriller, Mystery, Drama, Horror, Crime Kang Ha-neul, Kim Moo-yul, Moon Sung-keun Jang Hang-jun watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Read less Coming Home in the Dark (2021) r 93m Thriller, Horror Daniel Gillies, Erik Thomson, Miriama McDowell James Ashcroft watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Read less Sentinelle (2021) r 80m Thriller, Action, Drama Olga Kurylenko, Marilyn Lima, Michel Nabokoff Julien Leclercq watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Read less Army of Thieves (2021) r 127m Action, Thriller, Comedy Matthias Schweighöfer, Nathalie Emmanuel, Ruby O. Fee Matthias Schweighöfer watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Read less The Guilty (2021) r 91m Crime, Drama, Thriller Jake Gyllenhaal, Ethan Hawke, Riley Keough Antoine Fuqua watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Read less Best thrillers on Amazon Prime Best thrillers on Hulu Best movies on Netflix In the Shadow of the Moon (2019) r 115m Mystery, Science Fiction, Thriller Boyd Holbrook, Cleopatra Coleman, Michael C. Hall Jim Mickle watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Read less Nocturnal Animals (2016) r 116m Drama, Thriller Amy Adams, Jake Gyllenhaal, Aaron Taylor-Johnson Tom Ford watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Read less Creep (2014) r 82m Horror, Thriller Mark Duplass, Patrick Brice, Katie Aselton Patrick Brice watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Read less Gunpowder Milkshake (2021) r 114m Action, Thriller, Crime Karen Gillan, Lena Headey, Chloe Coleman Navot Papushado watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Read less The Vault (2021) r 118m Crime, Action, Thriller Freddie Highmore, Astrid Bergès-Frisbey, Sam Riley Jaume Balagueró watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Read less Hold the Dark (2018) tv-ma Thriller, Mystery, Crime Jeffrey Wright, Alexander Skarsgård, James Badge Dale watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Read less The Call (2020) r 112m Thriller, Mystery, Science Fiction Park Shin-hye, Jeon Jong-seo, Kim Sung-ryung Lee Chung-hyun watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Read less Red Dot (2021) tv-ma Thriller Johannes Bah Kuhnke, Nanna Blondell, Anastasios Soulis watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Read less Velvet Buzzsaw (2019) r 113m Thriller, Mystery, Horror Jake Gyllenhaal, Rene Russo, Zawe Ashton Dan Gilroy watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Read less Calibre (2018) tv-ma Horror, Thriller Jack Lowden, Martin McCann, Tony Curran watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Read less El Camino: A Breaking Bad Movie (2019) tv-ma Crime, Drama, Thriller, Action Aaron Paul, Jesse Plemons, Charles Baker watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Read less Editors' Recommendations The 50 best movies on Netflix right now (November 2023) The 50 best shows on Netflix in November 2023 Is Trolls Band Together streaming? The best movies and shows on Shudder right now (November 2023) The 50 best anime on Hulu right now Netflix Streaming Services Movie images and data from: Entertainment Even with its extensive Black Stories collection, finding the best Black movies on Netflix takes a little work. Fortunately, we're always scouring the library to find the best movies available for your movie night, and if you'd like to celebrate Black stories, creators, and actors, this list is for you. Read on to find something to watch tonight! Looking for more films and shows that illustrate the Black experience? Check out our roundups of the best Black shows and movies to stream across all platforms.
Entertainment Exploring the thousands of titles on Netflix can be both exciting and overwhelming. Content of all types abounds, from dramas and comedies to reality shows and documentaries. There's even a top 10 list to help narrow your decision by letting you see the most popular Netflix shows.
Every week, Netflix releases a list of the 10 most-watched TV shows over a recent seven-day period. Below, we have listed the top 10 shows in the U.S. from November 5 to November 12, along with general information about each show, including genre, rating, cast, and synopsis.
Entertainment Netflix is one of the most popular streaming services in the world, with nearly 250 million subscribers. And just what do those people tend to watch? In particular, what is the most popular movie on Netflix? Each week, the streaming service releases a list of its 10 most-watched movies over the preceding seven days. Below, we've listed the top 10 movies in the U.S. from November 6 to November 12, along with general information about each film, such as genre, rating, cast, and synopsis.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
