Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix F1 Live Stream Stranger Things Season 5 Best New Movies Most Popular Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney+ UFC Live Stream Best Movies on Disney+ Home Entertainment Guides Dune is on Netflix in October. Here’s why you should watch this 2021 sci-fi classic By Guillermo Kurten Close Whether it’s evidence of the streaming market becoming more flexible about what can be streamed where remains to be seen, director Denis Villeneuve’s 2021 Dune adaptation has just expanded its reach from Max to Netflix.
 The 1965 novel by Frank Herbert is revered as one of the most influential pieces of sci-fi medium for its time, alongside the works of authors like Arthur C. Clarke.
An exceptional ensemble cast Greig Fraser’s fantastic cinematography A triumphant adaptation of Frank Herbert’s landmark novel Without it, other beloved creators like George Lucas may not have come along to create Star Wars, but Herbert’s work garnered notoriety for being immensely difficult to adapt effectively. However, Villeneuve’s rendition of Dune was given the space to breathe to develop this tale of tense galactic feudalism into the start of an epic two-part production, making it one of the best movies on Netflix between its spectacular visuals and powerful ensemble performance.
An exceptional ensemble cast Warner Bros.
Like other acclaimed contemporary directors including Christopher Nolan, Villeneuve’s productions seem to have the Hollywood pull to gather some of the best actors working today. This is evident from Sicario and Prisoners to Blade Runner 2049 and Arrival , and Dune is no exception.
5 best death game movies you should watch right now 3 sci-fi movies on Paramount+ you need to watch in November 3 action movies on Netflix you need to watch in November The latter’s all-star cast includes Timothée Chalamet as Paul Atreides, Oscar Isaac as Duke Leto Atreides, Rebecca Ferguson as Lady Jessica, Zendaya as Chani, and many more. Given the density and breadth of Herbert’s first book, the star power on screen could even be seen as another major challenge to balance, but the collective ensemble performance was stellar from beginning to end. Chalamet, Isaac, and Ferguson are particular highlights in what’s an overall well-rounded cast.
Greig Fraser’s fantastic cinematography Warner Bros.
Another high mark of the Canadian filmmaker’s movies is top-quality cinematography. In Dune , the talented Greig Fraser ( Zero Dark Thirty , Rogue One : A Star Wars Story , The Batman ) is behind the camera and continues to live up to his reputation.
Sci-fi in general demands imaginative camera work to make these awe-inspiring worlds feel convincing and lived-in, Fraser’s work here accomplishes just that. On top of being a methodical and tantalizing story, Dune is a feast for the eyes that does well to capture the scale of Herbert’s universe as best as any movie can. Even for those not well-versed in the canon of this series, Dune is far from lacking in the immersion department.
A triumphant adaptation of Frank Herbert’s landmark novel Warner Bros.
Denis Villeneuve has spent the last several years establishing himself as a masterful sci-fi director with the likes of Blade Runner 2049 and Arrival , and 2021’s Dune further cements that reputation. It seems like a passion project of his, and this project was surely a tall order given the struggles to properly adapt Herbert’s novel in decades past.
David Lynch famously distanced himself from his troubled 1984 movie, but the filmmaking climate seemed right for Villeneuve’s, as it effectively depicts the first half of this sci-fi landmark. There will always be concessions in book-to-movie adaptations, but Dune succeeds in capturing the sheer scale and depth of this gritty world and its lore. This triumphant adaptation is a culmination of the direction, writing, acting, and visuals on display, breaking this story’s theatrical curse.
Dune is now streaming on Netflix. Warner Bros. Pictures and Denis Villeneuve’s Dune: Part Two is set to be released in theaters on March 15, 2024.
Editors' Recommendations 3 movies and TV shows like the hit Max series Julia you should watch right now 3 TV shows on Tubi you should watch in November 3 PBS shows you should watch in November 3 sci-fi movies on Peacock you need to watch in November 5 great comedies from the past 5 years you should watch right now Entertainment Sci-fi films never go out of style. From Alien and Back to the Future to Dune and Blade Runner, sci-fi films continue to improve thanks to new technology. Many sci-fi films find a home on Netflix and wind up on the streamer's 10 most popular movies list. Films like Don't Look Up, The Adam Project, and Bird Box are 10 of the most popular English films on Netflix ever.
The Adam Project is one of our picks for sci-fi movies to watch in November. Other selections include the epic sequel to Godzilla: King of the Monsters, and a sci-fi thriller about a pilot's fight for survival against the dinosaurs.
Godzilla vs. Kong (2021) Entertainment David Fincher's latest film, The Killer, is now streaming on Netflix, marking his first Fincher since 2020's black-and-white drama Mank. The Killer stars Michael Fassbender in a tense psychological thriller about a hitman who thrives on procedure. The man is solitary, cold, and methodical; no sense of regret or morality will stop him from his next target. The killer waits in the shadows and takes pride in being a professional. After a fateful near miss, though, he is forced to battle his employers — and himself — on an international manhunt.
The movie, described as a neo-noir action thriller, is a return to the dark, violent side of Fincher's filmography that has made many of his previous movies immensely memorable. If The Killer is your kind of movie, check out these five other movies similar to Fincher's latest.
Panic Room (2002) Entertainment Last month on Hulu was all about horror. But in November, the new titles on Hulu include three of the best sci-fi movies of the last decade or so. For fans of the genre, this is a special treat that shouldn't be missed.
This month, our picks include Tom Cruise in a film unlike any of his previous blockbusters, as well as a cult classic robots-versus-aliens movie, and the final installment of a cult-classic film trilogy. These are the three sci-fi movies on Hulu that you need to watch in November.
Edge of Tomorrow (2014) Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
