Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix F1 Live Stream Stranger Things Season 5 Best New Movies Most Popular Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney+ UFC Live Stream Best Movies on Disney+ Home Entertainment Reviews Morbius review: Cold, dead, and desperate By Rick Marshall Close The last time a studio decided to build a film franchise out of a vampire from the Marvel Comics world, 1998’s Blade paved the way for the Marvel Cinematic Universe we know today. This year’s long-delayed Morbius , however, feels more like a stake through Sony Pictures’ superhero-loving heart.
Impressive cast Missed opportunities Wasted potential A lot can change in a few decades.
Impressive cast Image used with permission by copyright holder Directed by Daniel Espinosa ( Safe House , Life ) and featuring Oscar winner Jared Leto in the title role, Morbius follows brilliant scientist Michael Morbius (Leto), whose efforts to cure his debilitating blood disease lead him to conduct dangerous experiments with vampire bats. One such experiment seems to deliver that cure — along with a host of superhuman abilities — but also gives him an insatiable bloodlust. His attempts to cure himself of those deadly urges are complicated by the emergence of a villain with similar traits who’s happy to indulge his brutal instincts.
In theory, Morbius has all the ingredients for a fun, entertaining film. It has an accomplished, quirky actor in the lead role who’s more than willing to dive into the characters he plays, and it surrounds him with a similarly talented supporting cast. Emmy-nominated The Crown and Doctor Who actor Matt Smith plays Morbius’ best friend, Milo, who suffers from the same blood disease, while Adria Arjona ( Pacific Rim: Uprising ) plays Morbius’ research partner and love interest, Martine. They’re joined by two-time Emmy nominee Jared Harris ( Chernobyl , Mad Men ) as Morbius’ father figure and caretaker.
10 best Spider-Man stories ever, ranked Werewolf By Night review: magnificent monster mayhem Look Both Ways review: another forgettable Netflix original Along with that impressive cast, Morbius arrives with plenty of ties to established Marvel franchises, existing in the same universe as the (relatively successful) Venom films while also adjacent to the (outrageously successful) MCU proper, thanks to the increasingly blurred boundary between Sony and Marvel Studios’ characters. That connection gets plenty of attention in the film, too, with references to elements of the MCU and Venom films peppered throughout Morbius’ adventure.
And yet, somehow, Morbius never manages to capitalize on any of that potential.
Missed opportunities Image used with permission by copyright holder Despite offering plenty of opportunities for its protagonist’s tragic childhood and plight as an adult to strike an emotional chord with audiences, Morbius never ventures much below the surface with its title character or any of the supporting cast, for that matter. You’re given little reason to care about Morbius or forge any kind of connection with the sentiments that drive him, making the stakes feel frustratingly low and leaving the characters feeling detached from anything familiar.
Leto seemingly does the best he can with the material he’s given, but there’s simply not much dramatic meat on the bone in Morbius.
 The entertainment factor increases a bit with Smith, though, who leans into his arc with a wild abandon that often overshadows Leto’s more muted and (seemingly intentional) brooding performance. Smith is always fun to watch, and that’s especially true in Morbius , where he’s the brightest light in a dark and fairly dull environment.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Of course, Morbius didn’t need to be dull. From the aforementioned Blade to the more recent Deadpool films, there’s plenty of precedent for embracing the bloodier side of superhero stories. And what sort of project would be better-suited for that sort of horror-fueled treatment than a film about a superhero vampire? Sadly, Morbius is surprisingly bloodless for a film about a character obsessed with, well … blood. The action is bland by comic book movie standards, the scares are tame, and the characters are largely uninspiring (and not even moderately cheer-worthy) for much of the story. Rather than leaning into any of the elements that could have made Morbius stand out in a crowded genre, the film opts to remain frustratingly tepid across the board, hesitating to commit to any of the cinematic possibilities its source material offers.
Wasted potential Image used with permission by copyright holder Still, even as Morbius seems intent on wasting its potential, the film also comes across as shamefully desperate to prove its value in the larger Marvel movie-verse shared by Sony and Marvel Studios. Nods to the MCU and Sony’s cinematic Spider-Man universe are shoehorned into the story in ways that make Marvel movies ’ ubiquitous self-reference seem subtle in comparison. These heavy callouts culminate in a pair of mid-credits sequences that seem completely disconnected from the film’s story, intended to offer another reminder that Marvel’s recent Spider-Man films and Sony’s superhero universe are indeed connected — just in case you forgot.
It seems silly to call a film about a vampire “lifeless,” but that might be the most accurate label you can apply to Morbius , which wastes a tremendous amount of potential by consistently opting for the most boring, predictable storytelling decisions at every turn.
Morbius had every opportunity to be just as groundbreaking as that other Marvel vampire film was years ago, but instead it feels like just another nail in the coffin of Sony’s Spider-verse.
Sony’s Morbius premieres April 1 in theaters.
Editors' Recommendations The best MCU sequels, ranked The best MCU endings, ranked Best Marvel movies and TV shows on Netflix Ms. Marvel season 1 review: A super start for MCU’s new hero The 10 best AAPI MCU characters Comic Book Movies Marvel Entertainment After 27 films and a long list of box-office records, the Marvel Cinematic Universe has become one of Hollywood's safest bets, enjoying critical and commercial success for each highly anticipated (to put it mildly) installment of the franchise. But they can't all be hits, can they? If there's one thing the over-packed but visually stunning Doctor Strange in the Multiverse of Madness makes clear, it's that even one of the MCU's clunkiest films so far can provide an entertaining experience.
Entertainment The suggestion that a new film or series in the Marvel Cinematic Universe breaks fresh ground for the franchise gets thrown around a lot in the lead-up to each project's release. While it's been true for some -- such as WandaVision or Thor: Ragnarok, which each pushed the boundaries of the MCU in bold and different ways -- most additions haven't strayed too far from the thematic center of Marvel's movieverse.
Given how reliably entertaining the MCU has been so far, that's fine -- but when the studio does take some risks, the results have made a great storytelling universe even better.
Entertainment After his turn as Joker in Suicide Squad, Jared Leto could have been satisfied with playing one of the most iconic comic book characters of all time. But in Morbius, Leto has an opportunity to portray a character who is both the hero and the villain of his own story. Dr. Michael Morbius may not be as famous as the Clown Prince of Crime, but Leto is able recently explained what drew him to the role in a new featurette from Sony.
In the video below, Leto also recaps Marvel's origin of Morbius in broad strokes. After all, some of that material has to be saved for the final film. Regardless, the heart of Morbius' comic book history remains intact in the movie. The antihero suffers from a rare blood disease that claims thousands of lives every year. He is very aware of his own pending mortality when he comes up with a cure that utilizes vampire bats. The good news is that the cure works. Unfortunately, the side effects have transformed Morbius into a living vampire.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
