Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix F1 Live Stream Stranger Things Season 5 Best New Movies Most Popular Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney+ UFC Live Stream Best Movies on Disney+ Home Entertainment Reviews Stranger Things 4 Volume 1 review: Changing up the formula By Rick Marshall Close It’s beginning to feel like the residents of Hawkins, Indiana, just can’t catch a break.
Over the course of three seasons of Stranger Things , the characters in the fictional town of Hawkins have dealt with child abductions, murders, and even a secret Soviet invasion — all while battling supernatural threats from a terrifying alternate dimension known as the Upside Down. At this point, it feels like a relief that Stranger Things 4 — as the fourth season of the Netflix series is being called — finally takes the adventures out of Indiana (far out, in fact) to deliver the darkest, most wide-reaching chapter in the saga so far.
Returning for the fourth season of Stranger Things are series creators The Duffer Brothers, who write and direct five of the season’s nine episodes, along with most of the series’ core cast, which has been growing with each season. All of the expected characters return, both confirmed and hinted at in the nearly three years since the third season debuted, and the adventure takes them both across the U.S. and into the snowy wilderness of Russia as they attempt to both reunite with each other and stop a new, otherworldly enemy.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Stranger Things has became one of Netflix’s biggest hits — critically, commercially, and in the size of its rapidly expanding budget — since its July 2016 debut, and while the second and third seasons were certainly well received, they received some criticism for treading familiar ground narratively. Relationships between characters changed and new characters were introduced (and in some cases killed off), but for the most part, each season of the series followed a similar formula, pitting the group against leveled-up variations of the same enemy.
Manifest season 4 part 2’s ending, explained You season 4, part 1’s ending explained Paper Girls review: time-traveling, girl-power Goonies is good enough That ends with season 4 of Stranger Things, which bucks from tradition in various, mostly positive ways. This time around, the season will arrive in two parts , for example, with Digital Trends receiving an early look at the first five episodes of the season.
Along with changing up the way the season is released, Stranger Things 4 also resets the tone of the series with a much darker, deadly threat that feels distinct from the Mind Flayer and its army of demogorgons and demodogs that tormented Hawkins across prior seasons. It would seem difficult to up the ante after a season involving a monstrous creature made of liquified human flesh and bone, but somehow the new season does so, offering up an even more disturbing threat that feels more closely aligned with paranormal horror in this arc than the sort of sci-fi roots of previous seasons’ major antagonists.
Image used with permission by copyright holder The new season blows up the geographic boundaries of the series, too, with much of the action in the first half of the season unfolding in the sunbaked Southwest U.S. and frozen Siberian wilderness, in addition to the requisite creepy goings-on among the remaining characters in Hawkins. Those two elements alone give Stranger Things 4 a surprisingly unique feel within the overarching series, and makes the moments when the story does return to Hawkins and dabble in earlier, Upside Down-related events feel more like a welcome return to the familiar than a cheap retread of old material.
Still, with nearly six years elapsing since the series’ debut, Stranger Things does find itself saddled with a frustrating and somewhat unavoidable elephant in the room.
Any series with a young cast is destined to run into trouble when delays occur, as the actors continue to age even when the cameras aren’t rolling. Previous seasons of Stranger Things did a relatively good job of keeping production on the series rolling along at a quick enough pace to keep their young actors looking somewhat believable as middle- and high-school students. Sure, a few of the older cast members pushed the capacity for credulity a bit (nothing new for any audiences that grew up watching Beverly Hills 90210 , of course), but the gap between the actors’ perceived age and actual age was rarely so apparent as to be distracting.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Unfortunately, that also ends with the new season, which found its production period delayed multiple times due to the pandemic and the sort of behind-the-scenes scheduling conflicts that come from having an in-demand ensemble cast.
At this point, most of the series’ core, younger cast members are a difficult sell as high-school students , no matter how much era-appropriate makeup, hairstyling, and costuming (and even subtle visual effects) are put to work on them. Reconciling their perceived age with where they’re intended to be in the story, with regard to both the series’ timeline and their emotional and physical age, takes a little getting used to, and it’s easy to forget that most of the cast members are supposed to be high-schoolers as the show rolls along. This visual disconnect isn’t so powerful that it prevents you from immersing yourself in the story over time, but it can snap you out of scenes now and then — particularly when the narrative brings them back into high-school settings.
If you’re able to trick your mind into believing the cast are years (or in a few cases, a decade) younger than they are, though, the fourth season of Stranger Things offers a level of entertainment and world-building storytelling that makes up for the long wait fans have endured.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Despite the show’s large cast, each of the characters get a surprisingly satisfying amount of time in the spotlight, with some characters who felt overlooked or underutilized in prior seasons even getting extra time to shine in the new season. The events they’ve endured in prior seasons of the series would rattle even the strongest personalities, and Stranger Things 4 does a nice job of exploring how they’ve grown emotionally and psychologically, along with the visual evidence of another year (in Stranger Things time) passing. To its credit, Stranger Things 4 spreads the love for its characters well, serving up big moments and narrative twists and turns for its characters individually without ever losing the sense of community and family they’ve formed while saving the world time and time again.
That’s no easy balance to strike, and despite the events transpiring around the various groups of characters happening thousands of miles apart, the fourth season of Stranger Things maintains a cohesive, singular narrative that doesn’t lose momentum across its first batch of episodes. Whether your favorite character is evading sinister American agents, a sadistic demon, or Soviet secret police, their stories feel intertwined with the rest of the cast, and building toward something bigger than their individual adventures.
It’s hard to believe that it’s been nearly three years since the last season of Stranger Things , but if the final four episodes of the season are as satisfying and entertaining as the first five, Stranger Things 4 will have been worth the wait.
Season 4 of Stranger Things premieres May 27 on Netflix streaming service.
Stranger Things (2016) tv-14 4 Seasons Drama, Mystery, Sci-Fi & Fantasy Winona Ryder, Millie Bobby Brown, Finn Wolfhard Matt Duffer, Ross Duffer watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Editors' Recommendations 10 best sci-fi movies of the 1980s, ranked Stranger Things is getting an animated series on Netflix Vesper review: an imaginative sci-fi adventure Nope review: Jordan Peele’s intelligent sci-fi horror delivers Resident Evil review: Netflix series aims high, falls short Stranger Things Movie images and data from: Entertainment Moonhaven begins, like so many mysteries before it, with a murder. The violent act in question effectively kick-starts the series’ story, but Moonhaven doesn’t waste much time drawing out the mysteries of its opening killing. In fact, in the second scene of the Moonhaven pilot, not only has the victim’s identity been discovered by the proper authorities, but so has her killer’s. The series resolves many of the questions surrounding its inciting incident at a surprisingly brisk pace that its otherwise exposition-heavy pilot episode fails to maintain.
However, while Moonhaven’s first season rarely keeps up the economic pace of its opening moments, the subversive spirit of its second scene is present throughout all of the Peter Ocko-created sci-fi series. Across its first six episodes, Moonhaven constantly delivers a number of playful twists on familiar tropes and figures. The detectives at the center of the series’ story, for instance, are not obsessed with avenging those who have been killed, but with helping those who are still alive grapple with their grief.
Entertainment In the next few weeks, you're going to see a lot of comparisons between Prime Video's new series Paper Girls and Netflix's breakout smash Stranger Things. It's a comparison that even we've made before, and it may seem like Prime Video is jumping on the bandwagon with this series. However, it's based on the Paper Girls comic book series by Brian K. Vaughan and artist Cliff Chiang that debuted in 2015, almost a year before Stranger Things. The nostalgia factor is high in the first full trailer for the series, as we're about to go back to the '80s once again. And that's where things get weird ... and strange.
Paper Girls - Official Trailer | Prime Video Entertainment If you have any doubts about the continued cultural reach of Stranger Things, look no further than the resurgent popularity of '80s alt-rock star Kate Bush. One of Bush's songs, Running Up That Hill, was used to great effect in Stranger Things 4 when Max needed an anchor to reality. Without that song, Vecna would have claimed Max as his latest victim. In the real world, Running Up That Hill is getting so much play that it's becoming the song of the summer -- 37 years after it was first released. That's one of the reasons why Bush's anthem features so heavily in the new trailer for Stranger Things 4 Volume 2.
Stranger Things 4 | Volume 2 Trailer | Netflix Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
