Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Windows 12 GTA 5 Cheats Wordle Today iPhone 15 Deals Upcoming Movies Nintendo Switch 2 NYT Connections Today Google Pixel 8 Pro Review Home Gaming Deals Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Xbox Series S Black Friday deals: consoles, games, and accessories By Albert Bassili Close While the Xbox Series S got a bad reputation when it first came out, the last year or two have really shown where it shines. For those who have older TVs and monitors that run 1080p, the Xbox Series S is a budget-friendly way for folks to play the latest games. And sure, it might not be able to hit 4k and high resolutions, but so many console games are locked to 60hz and sometimes struggle with 4k graphics, so the Xbox Series S is doing quite well overall. Luckily, there are many great Black Friday deals you can grab for the Xbox Series S, especially if you’re looking for a game or accessory. Chief among them Black Friday Series X deals , too.
Best Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Best Xbox Series S Game Black Friday Deals Best Xbox Series S Accessory Black Friday Deals Best Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Getty Images Unfortunately, there aren’t a lot of deals available for the Xbox Series S right now, which is surprising given how close we’re getting to Black Friday and all the other deals we’ve been seeing. Even so, there is a deal where you can get Xbox Game Pass Ultimate for free, so that’s worth picking up if you plan to buy the Xbox Series S. There are some more Black Friday PS5 deals out there if you’re willing to switch consoles (or want both in your arsenal).
Xbox Series S Gilded Hunter Bundle — Best Xbox Series S Game Black Friday Deals Unsplash Microsoft Black Friday deals don’t include a ton of console offerings. Luckily, there are a lot of great Xbox games out there with deals on them, and we’ve done our best to collect our favorite, with a few picks across various genres and styles of games for you to choose from.
Riders Republic — Minecraft Legends Deluxe Edition — Madden NFL 24 — Resident Evil 4 Standard Edition — Forza Horizon 5 Standard Edition — Call of Duty: Modern Warfare II — F1 23 Standard Edition — Diablo IV — Save on everything from laptops and tablets, to coffee makers and air purifiers, and a whole host of Apple tech like iPad, Apple Watch and even the latest M3 MacBooks, as well as smart home essentials like the Amazon Echo and smart bulbs.
Best Xbox Series S Accessory Black Friday Deals Unsplash There are also quite a few great Xbox Series S accessory deals, including a couple of cool designs from the official Microsoft app. And if you want to talk to your buddies while playing online, there are a bunch of Black Friday gaming headset deals live. We’ve also found a couple of good storage upgrade deals and controllers for playing simulation games, like a racing wheel.
Turtle Beach Recon Wired Controller — Xbox Wireless Controller Stormcloud Vap — RIG Nacon Revolution X Controller — PowerA MOGA XP-ULTRA Multi-Platform Wireless Controller — Seagate Storage Expansion Card For Xbox Series X|S 1TB — Thrustmaster T248 Racing Wheel and Magnetic Pedals for Xbox Series X|S — Seagate Storage Expansion Card For Xbox Series X|S 2TB — While there aren’t many portable options for the Xbox consoles, if you want a handheld experience, you might also consider Black Friday Nintendo Switch deals.
Editors' Recommendations 75 best Amazon Black Friday deals on laptops, TVs, Apple, and more PS5 Black Friday deals: consoles, games, and accessories Best Lenovo laptop Black Friday deals: Chromebooks, gaming laptops, and more Nintendo Switch Black Friday deals: Consoles, games, and more Razer Black Friday deals: Save on gaming laptops, keyboards and more Deals Computing Gamers who don't want this year's Black Friday deals to end without buying a powerful gaming laptop for much cheaper than usual should check out the offers that were launched by Razer. One of the most popular gaming brands, it doesn't disappoint with its high-performance and stylish machines. We've rounded up our top picks for Razer gaming laptop Black Friday deals below, including our absolute favorite, so don't waste any more time -- find the model that you want and proceed with the purchase, while the discounts are still online. If gaming isn't your sole focus, you'll find other powerful laptops in our list of the best Black Friday laptop deals.
Best Razer gaming laptop Black Friday deal The top-of-the-line performance provided by the Razer Blade 15 actually makes it a steal at its discounted price, as it's the only machine that you'll need for the next few years if you're looking forward to some upcoming PC games. Inside the gaming laptop are the 12th-generation Intel Core i7 processor, Nvidia GeForce RTX 3070 Ti graphics card, and 16GB of RAM, which are enough to run today's most popular titles at the highest settings. Its 15.6-inch screen with QHD resolution and a 240Hz refresh rate will give justice to all that power, and you'll be able to install several AAA games on its 1TB SSD that ships with Windows 11 Home. Originally $3,000, the Razer Blade 15 is down to $1,800 following a $1,200 discount from Razer for Black Friday.
Computing There's no need to wait for Black Friday deals because retailers like Dell have already rolled out some of their offers for the shopping holiday. Whether you're planning to buy a new laptop, monitor, or desktop computer, Dell surely has something that will fit your budget. We've rounded up the best Dell Black Friday deals that you can shop right now to help you decide quickly on your purchases, since you need to hurry to make sure that you're able to take advantage of the bargains. Like HP laptop Black Friday deals and Amazon Black Friday laptop deals, these discounts could end at any time. Any of these prices may return to normal at any moment, so act fast.
Top 3 Dell Black Friday deals Dell S2721QS 4K monitor -- $240, was $330 If you're looking for monitor deals to upgrade an outdated display, you should consider the Dell S2721QS 4K monitor. You'll be getting sharp details and vivid colors on its 27-inch screen with 4K Ultra HD resolution, and you'll also experience less stuttering and screen tearing with AMD's FreeSync technology. Your neck and eyes will stay comfortable with the help of the monitor's height-adjustable stand and Dell's ComfortView Plus that reduces harmful blue light emissions.
Gaming Gamers who have been planning to buy a gaming headset from Black Friday deals will be able to enjoy discounts on devices made by Logitech, Corsair, and many more -- but you have to act fast because stocks may sell out quickly. Whether you just need a basic device to better enjoy the audio of your favorite games or a premium one that will give you the communications advantage when battling with your teammates in online multiplayer matches, there's surely something for you out there. If you take advantage of the Black Friday PS5 deals or Black Friday Xbox Series S deals, you'll definitely want a headset to chat with your buds. Of course, to help you find that perfect offer, we've gathered our top picks below, and if something catches your eye, proceed with the transaction as soon as possible, as the deal may end sooner than you think.
Best Black Friday Wired Gaming Headset Deals There are various reasons why gamers prefer wired gaming headsets, including their relatively lower prices compared to wireless gaming headsets and generally better audio quality because their cables support higher bandwidth with less interference. They're also fantastic if you've grabbed one of the Black Friday Xbox Series X deals.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
