Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Netflix Original Movies Best Comedies on Netflix Best Netflix Original Series Best Anime on Netflix Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Fantasy Movies on Netflix Home Entertainment Guides The 10 most popular TV shows on Netflix right now By Dan Girolamo Close Exploring the thousands of titles on Netflix can be both exciting and overwhelming. Content of all types abounds, from dramas and comedies to reality shows and documentaries. There’s even a top 10 list to help narrow your decision by letting you see the most popular Netflix shows.
Every week, Netflix releases a list of the 10 most-watched TV shows over a recent seven-day period. Below, we have listed the top 10 shows in the U.S. from November 5 to November 12 , along with general information about each show, including genre, rating, cast, and synopsis.
Netflix Note: There will be a description of plot points from each of the series, so consider this a spoiler warning if you haven’t watched them yet. We’ve also rounded up the best shows on Netflix , the best movies on Hulu , the best movies on Amazon Prime , and the best movies on Disney+.
 For Netflix fans, also check out the 10 most popular movies on Netflix right now.
10. The Improv: 60 and Still Standing (2023) r 81m Comedy Deon Cole, Whitney Cummings, Jeff Dunham Jeff Tomsic watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Celebrate six decades of laughter with the new comedy special Improv: 60 and Still Standing.
The Improv is one of the most iconic comedy clubs in the U.S.. The Improv started as a single venue in the Hell’s Kitchen neighborhood of Manhattan before franchising and expanding with locations in cities such as Los Angeles, Chicago, and Washington D.C.
To honor the Improv, 10 comics hit the stage in Hollywood to give short sets and pay homage to the legendary venue. The list of comics performing: Deon Cole, Whitney Cummings, Jeff Dunham, Fortune Feimster, Jo Koy, Bert Kreischer, Kevin Nealon, Mark Normand, Anjelah Johnson-Reyes, and Craig Robinson.
Read less The best new shows to stream on Netflix, Hulu, Max (HBO), and more The 50 best shows on Netflix in November 2023 The best movies and shows on Shudder right now (November 2023) 9. Unicorn Academy chapter 1 (2023) tv-y7 1 Season Sci-Fi & Fantasy, Kids, Animation Sara Garcia, Sadie Laflamme-Snow, Kamaia Fairburn Michelle Lamoreaux, Robert Lamoreaux watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Spin Master, the Canadian toy company, has partnered with Netflix on the new animated series Unicorn Academy.
 Sophia is a young teen who is selected to attend an esteemed academy located on Unicorn Island. Upon arrival, Sophia learns that the school is Unicorn Academy, a magical school considered “the boarding school of every kid’s dreams.” Sophia and the rest of her class learn about the magical powers of the unicorns that inhabit the island. The students must bond with a unicorn to unleash their powers. Forming a bond is a necessary step to becoming the protector of Unicorn Island. It’s not all about the unicorns, as the teens must also balance schoolwork and friendships in this charming series.
Read less 8. Blue Eye Samurai season 1 (2023) tv-ma 1 Season Action & Adventure, Animation, Drama Maya Erskine, George Takei, Masi Oka Michael Green, Amber Noizumi watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Netflix continues to bolster its animation roster, and its latest entry, Blue Eye Samurai , is one of the very best in the genre. In 17th-century Japan, the borders were closed, meaning no outsiders could enter Japan except through illegal trade. Mizu (Maya Erskine) is a female mixed-race samurai, meaning one of her parents is not Japanese.
Mizu learns there were four white men in Japan during the time of her birth, so one of them has to be her father. An enraged Mizu sets out on a vengeful path to kill these four men, even though one of them is her father. Because women cannot seek revenge, Mizu must conceal her identity, as well as her blue eyes.
Read less 7. Life on Our Planet season 1 (2023) tv-pg 1 Season Documentary Morgan Freeman watch on Netflix watch on Netflix The four-billion-year story of Earth comes to life in the stunning nature docuseries Life on Our Planet.
 The journey began with a single cell and eventually grew to millions of species. Created by Silverback Films and Steven Spielberg’s Amblin Television, Life on Our Planet utilizes cutting-edge technology to illustrate creatures that were eliminated in five mass extinction events.
From a Tyrannosaurus rex and Triceratops to a woolly mammoth and Plateosaurus, Life on Our Planet highlights 500 species, both living and dead. Who better to narrate a series about Earth than a man who once voiced God, Mr. Morgan Freeman ? Read less 6. The Billionaire, the Butler, and the Boyfriend (2023) tv-14 1 Season Documentary, Crime Liliane Bettencourt, Françoise Bettencourt Meyers, François-Marie Banier watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Liliane Bettencourt was once known as the richest woman in the world. As the principal stockholder for L’Oréal, Bettencourt’s wealth surpassed $44 billion at the time of her death in 2017. Toward the final quarter of her life, Bettencourt was embroiled in a controversy known as the Bettencourt Affair. One of the key players in the affair was François-Marie Banier, a French photographer and friend of Liliane who received gifts and payments from the heiress that exceeded $1 billion.
Françoise Bettencourt, Liliane’s daughter, believes her mother’s mental capacities were declining and that Francois-Marie had manipulated her into giving him money. That is only the tip of the iceberg in The Billionaire, the Butler, and the Boyfriend , as Liliane’s alleged illegal payments found their way into the French government.
Read less 5. Ralph Barbosa: Cowabunga (2023) r 64m Comedy Ralph Barbosa Eric Adams watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Netflix’s stand-up comedy lineup only gets stronger with the addition of Ralph Barbosa’s new special, Ralph Barbosa: Cowabunga.
 Barbosa’s special was taped over the summer at The Kessler Theater in Barbosa’s hometown of Dallas. The 26-year-old rising star riffs on his childhood and experiences growing up with his grandparents in his hourlong special.
Barbosa also discusses his barbershop business as a teenager and fantasizes about his dream girl. Barbosa’s popularity has skyrocketed within the last year, highlighted by an appearance on The Tonight Show Starring Jimmy Fallon. Cowabunga is the culmination of a rising star’s run that has catapulted him to new heights.
Read less 4. Till Murder Do Us Part: Soering vs. Haysom (2023) tv-ma 1 Season Documentary watch on Netflix watch on Netflix The complicated double murder case of Derek and Nancy Haysom is revisited in Netflix’s new true crime series , Till Murder Do Us Part: Soering vs. Haysom.
 Derek and Nancy Haysom were murdered in their home on March 30, 1985, in Bedford County, Virginia. At the time of the murder, Derek and Nancy’s daughter, 20-year-old Elizabeth Haysom, was dating an 18-year-old German expat named Jens Soering.
One month after the murder, Soering confessed to the double murders. Yet during the 1990 trial, Soering recanted his confession, saying he took the blame to protect his girlfriend. Haysom then testifies against Soering. Who should you believe in this murder mystery? Where are these two ex-lovers now? More importantly, what happened on that fateful day in March 1985? Read less 3. Selling Sunset season 7 (2019) tv-ma 7 Seasons Reality Brett Oppenheim, Jason Oppenheim, Chrishell Stause Adam DiVello watch on Netflix watch on Netflix The Oppenheim Group is back for more real estate drama and million-dollar listings in Selling Sunset.
 The agents returning to the fold for season 7 are Chrishell Stause, Mary Fitzgerald, Amanza Smith, Emma Hernan, Chelsea Lazkani, Nicole Young, Bre Tiesi, Brett Oppenheim, and their leader, Jason Oppenheim.
Selling Sunset not only focuses on the ever-changing housing market but also the office drama that comes with a cast of strong-willed agents. The personal lives of each agent are on full display as the audience gets a peak into their personal lives, from relationships to fashion choices.
Selling Sunset combines the drama of The Real Housewives with the real estate of HGTV.
Read less 2. Escaping Twin Flames season 1 (2023) tv-ma 1 Season Documentary Janja Lalich Cecilia Peck watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Disturbing does not even begin to describe Netflix’s spine-tingling new docuseries Escaping Twin Flames.
 The subject revolves around Twin Flames Universe, a spiritual online community where members are assured they will find true love. That’s what Twin Flames Universe founders Shaleia and Jeff Divine have promised. The Divines sell online classes that promise a union will happen with a desired partner. Essentially, the classes guarantee people will find a soulmate.
If you think that sounds like a cult, you’re right! It’s a cult.
Escaping Twin Flames reveals the horror stories of manipulation and exploitation behind the organization and the difficulties many members experienced while trying to leave Twin Flames.
Read less 1. All the Light We Cannot See (2023) tv-ma 1 Season Drama Louis Hofmann, Aria Mia Loberti, Mark Ruffalo Steven Knight watch on Netflix watch on Netflix All the Light We Cannot See , the long-awaited adaptation of Anthony Doerr’s Pulitzer Prize-winning novel, is finally on Netflix. Set during World War II, All the Light We Cannot See is a coming-of-age story that follows the lives of Marie-Laure (Aria Mia Loberti), a blind French teenager, and Werner (Louis Hofmann), an orphan who becomes a soldier in the German army. Marie and Werner connect through radio frequencies.
Marie-Laure and her father (Mark Ruffalo) flee from German-occupied Paris to her uncle Etienne LeBlanc’s (Hugh Laurie) house in Saint-Malo, a French coastal town. As bombs begin to fall on Saint-Malo, Marie-Laure and Werner reconnect over the radio airwaves as they fight to survive.
Read less Editors' Recommendations The 10 most popular shows on Max right now The 50 best movies on Netflix right now (November 2023) The best Hulu original series right now The best Black movies on Netflix right now 3 TV shows on Tubi you should watch in November Netflix Streaming Services Movie images and data from: Entertainment Netflix is one of the most popular streaming services in the world, with nearly 250 million subscribers. And just what do those people tend to watch? In particular, what is the most popular movie on Netflix? Each week, the streaming service releases a list of its 10 most-watched movies over the preceding seven days. Below, we've listed the top 10 movies in the U.S. from November 6 to November 12, along with general information about each film, such as genre, rating, cast, and synopsis.
Entertainment The best feel-good movies on Netflix right now include plenty of romantic comedies to watch while snuggling up with your partner, pet, or favorite blanket.
There's also a concert tour documentary courtesy of Taylor Swift, which is particularly topical due to the singing sensation's dominance of the pop culture zeitgeist. We've sorted through the best feel-good movies on Netflix and feel good about the list below.
Entertainment The end of the year is almost here: can you believe it’s almost 2024? As you wind things down at work, take time off to enjoy with the family, and relax, it’s the perfect time to curl up with a great show. There are plenty of new and returning shows this month that are available through all the top streaming services. Browse this list and you’re bound to find a few worth adding to your nightly viewing selection.
There’s everything from dramas to comedies, a British heist series, a Canadian gem, and the end of a royal era. Have a look at these six shows you need to watch in December and pick the ones you want to dive into before the year is over.
Slow Horses season 3 (December 1) Slow Horses — Season 2 Official Trailer | Apple TV+ Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
