Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix F1 Live Stream Stranger Things Season 5 Best New Movies Most Popular Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney+ UFC Live Stream Best Movies on Disney+ Home Entertainment Guides The best shows on ESPN+ right now By Dan Girolamo Close ESPN is constantly adding new programming to ESPN+ every month. With live sporting events, debate-style roundtables, and highlight-driven presentations, ESPN and its family of networks are still the best destinations for round-the-clock sports coverage. With multiple networks and a streaming service, ESPN continues to make entertaining, informative, and thought-provoking content about every major sport. From 30 for 30 documentaries like The Luckiest Guy in the World to sports radio programs like The Pat McAfee Show , ESPN+’s programming will keep fans entertained for hours on end.
Whether you love the excitement of live sports or enjoy a good old-fashioned debate, ESPN+ is a sports paradise. Scrolling through ESPN+’s extensive library can be daunting, so we compiled a list of some of the best shows to watch on the ESPN+ streaming service.
The Pat McAfee Show Looking for more shows to watch? We have guides to the best shows on Netflix , the best shows on Hulu , the best shows on Disney+ , and the best shows on Amazon Prime Video.
The Pat McAfee Show 2017 The Luckiest Guy in the World 2023 TrueSouth 2018 The Pat McAfee Show (2017) new 7 Seasons Talk Pat McAfee Pat McAfee watch on ESPN+ watch on ESPN+ Pat McAfee is a lightning rod in the world of sports. The former NFL punter-turned-media personality is on a historic rise to superstardom, and one of his most popular ventures is The Pat McAfee Show.
 The weekly sports radio show airs from noon to 3 p.m. ET every Monday through Friday on ESPN, ESPN+, and ESPN’s YouTube Channel. The first two hours are available on all three, but only ESPN+ simulcasts all three hours.
Based in Indianapolis, McAfee uses his NFL experience and comedic background to put a unique and entertaining spin on the world of sports. Surrounded by a cast of eccentric personalities, including A.J. Hawk and Ty Schmit, McAfee’s effortless show plays like a conversation sports fans would have at a bar over a beer. Because of his popularity and brand recognition, McAfee gets some of the best interviews from some of the biggest names in sports, including Aaron Rodgers and Nick Saban.
Read less 5 bad 2000s action movies that you still need to watch right now The best movies on Amazon Prime Video (November 2023) The 50 best movies on Netflix right now (November 2023) The Luckiest Guy in the World (2023) new 1 Season Documentary Bill Walton, Larry Bird, Robert Parish Steve James watch on ESPN+ watch on ESPN+ Bill Walton is one of the zaniest and most colorful personalities in basketball. To say Walton is unique would be an understatement. Walton is the only basketball analyst who will explain the importance of the pick and roll, the legacy of The Grateful Dead, and his experiences with marijuana in the same broadcast. Walton’s free-spirited personality and Hall of Fame career became the subject of The Luckiest Guy in the World , a 30 for 30 docuseries from Steve James, the award-winning documentarian behind Hoop Dreams and Life Itself.
At nearly seven feet tall, Walton became one of basketball’s most feared players, dominating at UCLA under the legendary John Wooden before playing in the NBA for 14 years, where he would win the MVP and two NBA Championships. Yet, Walton is much more than a basketball player, as the tie-dye-wearing big man remained true to himself on and off the court.
Read less TrueSouth (2018) new 5 Seasons Reality John T. Edge Wright Thompson watch on ESPN+ watch on ESPN+ Southern food and culture come to the forefront in TrueSouth.
 Hosted by four-time James Beard Award winner John T. Edge and executive produced by two-time New York Times bestselling author and ESPN senior writer Wright Thompson, TrueSouth focuses on two food stories from one place to explore Southern identities and beliefs.
Season 6’s locations include Hot Springs, Arkansas; The Black Belt, Alabama; St. Augustine, Florida; and Dublin, Georgia. They say the best way to experience a culture is through food, and Edge showcases local cuisines and restaurants to better understand the people and their customs.
Read less McEnroe’s Places (2023) 1 Season Comedy John McEnroe watch on ESPN+ watch on ESPN+ John McEnroe is one of the greatest tennis players to ever pick up a racket. From his fiery tirades to his spectacular skill, McEnroe was a lightning rod for the sport. Now, McEnroe takes his unique personality to television in McEnroe’s Places , an expansion of Peyton Manning’s Places franchise.
In the series, McEnroe explores the history of tennis and follows its evolution from a backyard game to a global sport. McEnroe interviews some of the game’s best and most popular current and former players, including Taylor Fritz, Rod Laver, Maria Sharapova, Chris Evert, Patrick McEnroe, and Novak Djokovic.
Read less Southern Hoops: A History of SEC Basketball (2023) 1 Season Documentary watch on ESPN+ watch on ESPN+ The origins of SEC basketball are explored through the seven-part series Southern Hoops: A History of SEC Basketball.
 On the men’s side, Southern Hoops chronicles the history of SEC basketball, including Vanderbilt participating in the first game in 1893. Other seminal moments include the 1948 Kentucky team winning the SEC’s first national title under Adolph Rupp.
For the women’s game, the series depicts legendary coaches, such as Tennessee’s Pat Summitt and South Carolina’s Dawn Staley, who turned their programs into national powers.
Southern Hoops also shines a light on the civil rights movement and its impact on basketball in the SEC.
Read less Deion's Double Play (2019) 60m Documentary Deion Sanders, Ludacris Ken Rodgers, Erik Powers watch on ESPN+ watch on ESPN+ There’s an argument to be made that the greatest athlete to ever play professional sports is Deion Sanders. Most professional athletes focus on playing one sport. Sanders, however, was so talented that he played two: football and baseball. Sanders playing in the NFL and MLB is a remarkable feat, but the fact that he found success in both sports is truly unfathomable.
Deion’s Double Play chronicles Sanders’ attempt in 1992 to play two games for the Atlanta Braves and one game for the Atlanta Falcons within 24 hours. Even though the events were in different cities located 1,000 miles apart, if one athlete could pull off the impossible, it was Deion.
Read less Once Upon A Time In Anaheim (2023) 55m Documentary Steven Brill, Michael Eisner, Marguerite Moreau Scott Cikowski, Russell Dinallo watch on ESPN+ watch on ESPN+ Usually, sports movies are based on real teams or players. In the case of the Anaheim Mighty Ducks, the movie inspired the team. In 1992, a ragtag group of peewee hockey players rallied under coach Gordon Bombay to win the Minnesota State Championship in The Mighty Ducks.
 The film became a surprise hit at the box office, earning $50 million against a $14 million budget. One year later, Disney CEO Michael Eisner, inspired by the underdog message of the film, brought the Mighty Ducks to life by bringing pro hockey to Anaheim.
Without players or coaches, Eisner assembled a hockey franchise within one year, and they became the Anaheim Mighty Ducks. At first, the team struggled, becoming one of the worst teams in the NHL.
Once Upon A Time In Anaheim chronicles the early days of the Mighty Ducks and their journey from the laughing stock of the league to Stanley Cup contenders.
Read less 144 (2021) 90m Documentary Chiney Ogwumike, Breanna Stewart, Tianna Hawkins Lauren Stowell, Jenna Contreras watch on ESPN+ watch on ESPN+ In 2020, the COVID-19 pandemic disrupted many professional sports leagues, including the WNBA. The WNBA typically plays a spring to early fall schedule, but COVID-19 jeopardized the league as canceling the season became a legitimate option. However, the players, coaches, and WNBA management agreed to play in a bubble at IMG Academy, a single site where every game would be played in a shortened season.
144 is the story of how the bubble came to be as 144 players across 12 teams played 147 games from July to October 2020. The documentary also depicts how the league handled social justice and activism among players at the height of the Black Lives Matter movement.
Read less The Tournament: A History of ACC Men's Basketball (2022) 1 Season Documentary Jack Coleman watch on ESPN+ watch on ESPN+ The story of how one of the premier college basketball tournaments came to be is the subject of The Tournament: A History of ACC Men’s Basketball.
 The 10-part series covers different eras of the conference, starting with how the original tournament in 1954. At that time, the NCAA Tournament awarded just one berth per conference. There were no at-large bids like there are in today’s NCAA tournament.
The ACC revolutionized college basketball by becoming the only league to determine which team would win the conference with a tournament to crown a champion. From Dean Smith and Mike Krzyzewski to Ralph Sampson and Christian Laettner, The Tournament highlights some of the most influential coaches and players in the game’s history. It’s a must-watch for any college basketball fan.
Read less SportsCenter (1979) 1 Season News Scott Van Pelt, Hannah Storm, Kevin Negandhi John A. Walsh watch on ESPN+ watch on ESPN+ If you’ve ever watched ESPN, the jingle DaDaDa, DaDaDa is probably in your mind. After 40-plus years, SportsCenter is still ESPN’s flagship program.
 The sporting news program changed the way the media covers sports.
With highlight clips, news packages, in-depth analysis, and interviews, SportsCenter provides up-to-the-minute information on every major sport. What started as a show that would air once a day has progressed to over 12 live shows daily. The series continues to serve as a go-to program for many sports fans looking to stay up-to-date on their favorite teams and leagues.
Read less Player 54: Chasing the XFL Dream (2023) 1 Season Documentary Dwayne Johnson, Dany Garcia watch on ESPN+ watch on ESPN+ The XFL has its version of the NFL’s Hard Knocks with Player 54: Chasing the XFL Dream.
 The docuseries focuses on the creation of the league under new ownership from Dany Garcia ( Black Adam ) and Dwayne “The Rock” Johnson ( Red Notice ). After the league filed for bankruptcy in April 2020, Garcia and Johnson purchased the league in August 2020, and the league began its inaugural season in February 2023.
The 54 symbolizes the odd-man out of an NFL roster, which only carries 53 players. The series focuses on the dreamers of the XFL, the castoff football players and coaches looking to continue their careers in the sport they love.
Read less On The Clock (2023) 1 Season Documentary Archie Manning, Peyton Manning, Eli Manning watch on ESPN+ watch on ESPN+ Arguably the most important position in professional sports is quarterback. A good quarterback can positively set an NFL franchise up for the next decade, but a bad quarterback can set a team back for years. Peyton Manning and Eli Manning, two Super Bowl-winning quarterbacks, decided to evaluate and mentor the top four prospects at the position ahead of the 2023 NFL Draft.
The result became On The Clock , a four-part original series that chronicles the journey of Alabama’s Bryce Young, Ohio State’s C.J. Stroud, Kentucky’s Will Levis, and Florida’s Anthony Richardson, from the 2022 college football season to the NFL Draft. The Manning brothers provide an insightful look into the pressures of being a top quarterback and what it takes to succeed at the position.
Read less Fate of a Sport (2022) 100m Documentary Paul Rabil Michael Doneger watch on ESPN+ watch on ESPN+ Lacrosse is typically viewed as a niche sport that can never become as popular as football, basketball, baseball, and hockey, especially at the professional level. There was a running joke that pro lacrosse players needed 9-to-5 jobs during the week to support themselves due to lacrosse’s low salaries. In 2020, one man, Paul Rabil, one of the greatest pro players to ever pick up a stick, changed the trajectory of the sport.
Fate of a Sport depicts Rabil’s pursuit to create his own professional lacrosse league, which would become the Premiere Lacrosse League (PLL). Imagine Michael Jordan decided to create his basketball league while on the Chicago Bulls or Derek Jeter attempted to start another baseball league as a member of the New York Yankees. That’s essentially what Rabil tried to do and succeeded.
Fate of a Sport is a fascinating view into how one player and his older brother strived to change professional lacrosse.
Read less UFC Embedded (2014) 6 Seasons Sports Bruce Buffer, Dana White, Joe Rogan, Daniel Cormier watch on ESPN+ watch on ESPN+ Go behind the scenes in the life of an MMA fighter in UFC Embedded.
 Think of UFC Embedded as MMA’s version of Hard Knocks.
 Before every pay-per-view event, the UFC documents the days leading up to fight night through the eyes of the fighters on the main card. It’s an all-access video blog series that features interviews with the fighters, family members, friends, and coaches.
From training in the gym and sparring with teammates to signing autographs and making media appearances, the series chronicles every aspect of fight week, providing the fans with an inside look into what it takes to be a UFC athlete.
Read less Eli's Places (2021) tv-14 2 Seasons Talk Eli Manning watch on ESPN+ watch on ESPN+ Eli Manning explores the intricacies and wonders of college football in Eli’s Places.
 Serving as the spinoff to Peyton’s Places , Eli’s Places focuses on college football as the youngest Manning brother travels around the country, exploring what makes college football a way of life.
Eli travels to some of college football’s most iconic locations, such as Notre Dame and the Rose Bowl , and interviews legends of the sport along the way, including Jim McMahon and Tim Tebow. Eli even went undercover at Penn State walk-on tryouts as “Chad Powers” in one of the standout episodes of season 2.
Eli’s Places is a fun, upbeat view of a game loved by so many fans nationwide.
Read less 30 for 30 (2009) 4 Seasons Documentary Connor Schell, Bill Simmons, John Dahl watch on ESPN+ watch on ESPN+ Read less Vince's Places (2022) 1 Season Vince Carter watch on ESPN+ watch on ESPN+ Read less The Last Dance (2020) tv-ma 1 Season Documentary Michael Jordan, Scottie Pippen, Dennis Rodman Michael Tollin watch on ESPN+ watch on ESPN+ Read less Peyton's Places (2019) 3 Seasons Talk Peyton Manning watch on ESPN+ watch on ESPN+ Read less Bananaland (2022) 1 Season Documentary Jesse Cole watch on ESPN+ watch on ESPN+ Read less The Ultimate Fighter (2005) tv-14 30 Seasons Reality Frank Fertitta III, Dana White watch on ESPN+ watch on ESPN+ Kamaru Usman, T.J. Dillashaw, and Rose Namajunas.
Read less Detail: From The Mind of Daniel Cormier (2019) 3 Seasons Talk Daniel Cormier watch on ESPN+ watch on ESPN+ Read less Man in the Arena: Tom Brady (2021) tv-pg 1 Season Documentary Tom Brady watch on ESPN+ watch on ESPN+ Read less The Captain (2022) 1 Season Documentary Derek Jeter watch on ESPN+ watch on ESPN+ Read less NFL Primetime (1970) 1 Season Sports Chris Berman, Booger McFarland watch on ESPN+ watch on ESPN+ Read less America's Caddie (2020) 1 Season Michael Collins watch on ESPN+ watch on ESPN+ Read less Dana White's Contender Series (2017) 6 Seasons Reality Dana White, Sean Shelby, Mick Maynard watch on ESPN+ watch on ESPN+ Read less Editors' Recommendations 3 movies and TV shows like the hit Max series Julia you should watch right now The 10 most popular shows on Max right now The best new shows to stream on Netflix, Hulu, Max (HBO), and more The 10 best characters in the Hunger Games movies, ranked The 50 best shows on Netflix in November 2023 Movie images and data from: Entertainment There are always exciting new original series coming out on Hulu across every genre. Hulu offers tons of library content too, but the original shows really add value to the streaming service. Think shows like The Handmaid's Tale, Only Murders in the Building, and Ramy. The momentum continues as Hulu has released more new content toward the end of 2023, with additional shows planned into 2024 as well.
As for what to watch now, the best Hulu original series includes some old favorites, as well as new shows that have just been released or are coming soon. Plus, you can currently save with the Disney Bundle, which makes Hulu an even better deal by including not only Hulu, but also Disney+ and ESPN+, for just $14 a month.
Entertainment This month marks the 60th anniversary of Doctor Who, the hit BBC sci-fi series with a devoted fan following worldwide. And while new episodes of the 2005 revival series are coming to Disney+ later this month, fans of classic Doctor Who will get a chance to fully explore the Doctor's adventures even further. Tubi has announced that as of today, over 600 episodes of the original Doctor Who series are now streaming for free.
Doctor Who debuted on November 23, 1963, in an era before the preservation of television programs was given any priority. Because of that, 97 episodes are missing from the show's original 871-episode run. However, a few of those lost episodes were animated with archival recordings of the actors. Those recreations will also be available on Tubi under the Classic Doctor Who: The Animated Lost Stories banner.
Entertainment In the realm of the greatest thriller and horror movies is a subgenre that has grown in popularity over the years – the "death game" films. These are brutal and often disturbing works that thrust characters into ruthless games of survival, with only the most cunning, creative, or desperate players coming out alive. There are some standouts from the niche that are critically acclaimed thanks to their uniqueness, complexity, or bold genre-defining concepts that would go on to shape and influence modern death game movies.
From controversial classics like Battle Royale to beloved blockbusters like The Hunger Games, the best death game movies depict violent battles bound by twisted sets of rules that ensure there will be bloodshed. These adrenaline-pumping films can get viewers invested in the characters' fates and lives, which are inevitably cut short when the games begin.
Ready or Not (2019) Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
