Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix F1 Live Stream Stranger Things Season 5 Best New Movies Most Popular Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney+ UFC Live Stream Best Movies on Disney+ Home Entertainment Guides The best superhero TV shows of all time By Blair Marnell and Michileen Martin Close Although superheroes were once relegated to Saturday morning cartoons, the popular comic book heroes are no longer confined to terrestrial TV or even cable. The streaming era has led to the rise of several new shows, as well as the chance to see nearly forgotten classic animated and live-action series that might otherwise have only been available as bootleg DVDs at comic conventions. But with so many programs to keep track of, it can be difficult to determine which ones are worth your time. Fortunately, we’ve already made those selections for you in our list of the best superhero TV shows of all time.
Browse other superhero stories The best superhero movies of all time The best Marvel movies on Disney+ How to watch the Marvel movies in order The Spectacular Spider-Man (2008) new tv-y7 2 Seasons Action & Adventure, Animation Josh Keaton Stan Lee, Steve Ditko watch on Disney+ watch on Disney+ Read less Batman: The Brave and the Bold (2008) new tv-y7 3 Seasons Animation, Action & Adventure Diedrich Bader Michael Jelenic, James Tucker watch on HBO Max watch on HBO Max Read less The 50 best movies on Netflix right now (November 2023) The best Hulu original series right now The best family movies on Netflix right now Invincible (2021) new tv-ma 1 Season Animation, Sci-Fi & Fantasy, Action & Adventure, Drama Steven Yeun, Sandra Oh, J.K. Simmons watch on Amazon watch on Amazon Read less Harley Quinn (2019) new tv-ma 4 Seasons Sci-Fi & Fantasy, Animation, Crime, Action & Adventure, Comedy Kaley Cuoco, Lake Bell Dean Lorey, Patrick Schumacker, Justin Halpern watch on HBO Max watch on HBO Max Read less Ms. Marvel (2022) tv-14 1 Season Sci-Fi & Fantasy, Action & Adventure, Comedy Iman Vellani, Matt Lintz, Yasmeen Fletcher Bisha K. Ali watch on Disney+ watch on Disney+ Read less Peacemaker (2022) tv-ma 1 Season Action & Adventure, Sci-Fi & Fantasy, Drama John Cena, Danielle Brooks, Freddie Stroma James Gunn watch on HBO Max watch on HBO Max Read less Hawkeye (2021) tv-14 1 Season Drama, Comedy, Action & Adventure Jeremy Renner, Hailee Steinfeld, Tony Dalton Jonathan Igla watch on Disney+ watch on Disney+ Read less Moon Knight (2022) tv-14 1 Season Action & Adventure, Sci-Fi & Fantasy, Mystery Oscar Isaac, Ethan Hawke, May Calamawy Jeremy Slater watch on Disney+ watch on Disney+ Read less Superman: The Animated Series (1996) tv-pg 3 Seasons Animation, Action & Adventure, Sci-Fi & Fantasy Tim Daly, Dana Delany Alan Burnett, Bruce Timm watch on HBO Max watch on HBO Max Twenty-five years ago, the creative team behind Batman: The Animated Series reunited to see if they could capture lightning in a bottle twice with DC’s Man of Steel.
Superman: The Animated Series stands as a testament to their success. For the first time since the Christopher Reeve movies, Superman was distilled down to his core essence while also embracing his comic book roots. Tim Daly provided the voice of Superman and his alter ego, Clark Kent, while Dana Delany was an appropriately feisty and independent Lois Lane. The great Clancy Brown brought a real sense of menace to Lex Luthor as both a businessman and Superman’s greatest rival. Even Lauren Tom’s Supergirl proved to be a wonderful addition to the show.
But this show’s greatest accomplishment is that it actually has a slow-burn story with Darkseid (Michael Ironside) and the New Gods that plays out all the way through the series until the two-part series finale. In short, Superman got to face his greatest nemesis, and the animated series had a satisfying conclusion that still resonates.
Read less Green Lantern: The Animated Series (2011) tv-pg 1 Season Action & Adventure, Animation, Sci-Fi & Fantasy Josh Keaton, Kevin Michael Richardson, Jason Spisak Bruce Timm watch on HBO Max watch on HBO Max Read less Young Justice (2010) tv-14 4 Seasons Animation, Sci-Fi & Fantasy, Action & Adventure Jesse McCartney, Khary Payton, Nolan North Greg Weisman, Brandon Vietti watch on HBO Max watch on HBO Max Read less X-Men (1992) tv-y7 5 Seasons Kids, Sci-Fi & Fantasy, Animation, Action & Adventure Cathal J. Dodd, Cedric Smith, Norm Spencer Sidney Iwanter, Mark Edward Edens, Margaret Loesch, Eric Lewald watch on Disney+ watch on Disney+ Read less WandaVision (2021) tv-14 1 Season Sci-Fi & Fantasy, Mystery, Drama Elizabeth Olsen, Paul Bettany, Kathryn Hahn Jac Schaeffer watch on Disney+ watch on Disney+ A lot of viewers didn’t know what to make of WandaVision when it was released on Disney+ in January 2021. As the first of the streaming service’s miniseries to feature the heroes from Marvel Studios’ big-screen adventures, the first couple of episodes WandaVision transplant Avengers Wanda Maximoff (Elizabeth Olsen) and the android Vision (Paul Bettany) to the corny world of TV sitcom without bothering to explain why these two superheroes are suddenly making like the leads of Bewitched and The Brady Bunch.
 Dropping as many sitcom Easter eggs as they do references to the comic book source material, the makers of WandaVision take precious care to leave you off-balance enough with this bizarre mystery while not leaving you so stranded that you lose interest.
Feeling at times more like Twin Peaks than any of the movies the heroes come from, WandaVision pushes the boundaries of what a superhero story can be. While it’s a delicious mystery that rightly inspires tons of fan theories, it also hits the kind of emotional core that none of the Marvel Cinematic Universe films have dared to get close to before. It may have plenty of superhumans and synthezoids, but WandaVision is ultimately a story about a woman struggling to recover from trauma and soul-crushing grief.
Read less The Boys (2019) tv-ma 4 Seasons Sci-Fi & Fantasy, Action & Adventure Karl Urban, Jack Quaid, Antony Starr Eric Kripke watch on Amazon watch on Amazon The disturbingly familiar world of The Boys is one in which superheroes are the property of the powerful corporation Vought International, and those costumed “supes” spend more time tweeting, making commercials, music videos, and movies than they ever do fighting crime or saving innocents. Not to mention the dark appetites of some of the most powerful supes, including the show’s twisted Superman stand-in, Homelander (Anthony Starr). Harboring his own personal vendettas, the brutal Billy Butcher (Karl Urban) leads the titular squad of fugitives — the only group with the backbone to stand up against Vought and its super-powered employees.
Perhaps the highest praise a comic book adaptation can receive is to learn that a large chunk of the source material’s fan base prefers the reimagined version. That the Amazon Prime original The Boys has received such acclaim is a testament both to the show’s creators and to the initial concept. In the comic book created by Garth Ennis and Darick Robertson, the supes are meant to be embarrassing caricatures of popular superheroes. But its adaptation gives both the supes and the vigilantes pursuing them more dimension while still making it clear how twisted and ridiculous the supes can be.
Read less Marvel's Daredevil (2015) tv-ma 3 Seasons Crime, Drama, Action & Adventure Charlie Cox, Deborah Ann Woll, Elden Henson Drew Goddard, Steven S. DeKnight watch on Disney+ watch on Disney+ If you’ve seen the embarrassing Ben Affleck Daredevil flick from 2003, then you can be forgiven for feeling hesitant about giving the hero Marvel calls the “Man Without Fear” another shot. But unlike that earlier, poor echo of Tim Burton’s Batman, Netflix’s Daredevil feels less like a story about a superhero and more like a crime story that just happens to feature a guy with powers.
Largely influenced by the work of game-changing writer and artist Frank Miller ( The Dark Knight Returns , Sin City ), the Daredevil series unfolds as a suspenseful action thriller with Matt Murdock (Charlie Cox) as a determined but deeply flawed hero facing impossible odds. The show is perfectly cast, including Vincent D’Onofrio as the obsessed crime lord Wilson Fisk and Scott Glen as Murdock’s cruel mentor Stick. The second of its three seasons is generally considered its weakest, but “weak” for Daredevil is better than the best most other shows have to offer. Not to mention one of the highlights of that season is the introduction of Jon Bernthal as Frank Castle, better known as The Punisher.
Read less Batman (1966) tv-g 3 Seasons Sci-Fi & Fantasy, Comedy, Action & Adventure Adam West, Burt Ward, Yvonne Craig William Dozier, Lorenzo Semple Jr.
Hardcore comic book fans may understandably do an angry spit-take at the idea of honoring the ’60s Batman show, but if you set aside your well-earned preference for the darker and grittier Batman and his love affair with perching from stone gargoyles, you may find yourself appreciating the camp classic.
With their punny dialogue, ridiculous costumes, and penchant for taking their sweet time climbing up the sides of buildings, Adam West and Burt Ward turned Batman and Robin into household names. No, they didn’t even mention the tragic deaths of Bruce Wayne or Dick Grayson’s parents, and yes, Cesar Romero famously refused to shave his mustache for the role of the Joker. But this wonderfully silly show introduced the vocabulary of Batman and Robin to most of America. All the non-print media featuring the Dark Knight and his villains continue to take inspiration from Batman , no matter how gravelly the vigilante’s voice gets.
Read less Watchmen (2019) tv-ma 1 Season Crime, Drama, Action & Adventure, Sci-Fi & Fantasy Regina King, Yahya Abdul-Mateen II, Jeremy Irons Damon Lindelof watch on HBO Max watch on HBO Max If you know anything about the bad blood between Watchmen (the graphic novel) writer Alan Moore and DC Comics, then you probably find it tough to blame the author for foregoing all of the various media adapted from his comic book work, including the HBO original series Watchmen.
 But it is impossible to experience this series and not want to desperately plead to Moore to give it a shot and share his thoughts. Unlike Zack Snyder’s 2009 big-screen adaptation of the graphic novel, HBO’s Watchmen continues the story that Moore and Dave Gibbons began.
The series is set mostly in modern-day Oklahoma, where the police wear masks and a hate group — inspired by the journal of the late vigilante Rorschach — is gaining ground. Using similar strategies to what Moore and Gibbons used to explore ’80s America, sexuality, and the comic book medium, Watchmen series creator Damon Lindelof focuses on race. The first episode opens with the real-life 1921 Tulsa race massacre and, to highlight how important the series was at that moment in time, many Americans would later confess they’d never heard of the massacre before Watchmen.
Read less The Tick (1994) tv-y7 3 Seasons Animation, Comedy Townsend Coleman, Rob Paulsen, Kay Lenz Ben Edlund watch on Hulu watch on Hulu Read less Marvel's Jessica Jones (2015) tv-ma 3 Seasons Sci-Fi & Fantasy, Drama Krysten Ritter, Rachael Taylor, Eka Darville Melissa Rosenberg watch on Disney+ watch on Disney+ Starring Krysten Ritter as the eponymous super-powered private eye, Netflix’s Jessica Jones achieves more than most would have suspected a superhero television show capable of. When we first meet Jones, all we know for sure is that she’s a P.I., she possesses superhuman strength, and she’s seldom sober. Eventually, we learn Jones is more than just an irresponsible drunk — she’s the victim of the sadistic Kilgrave (David Tennant), a man with the ability to make anyone do what he says.
Not only did Kilgrave use his talent to make Jones his unwilling plaything in the bedroom, but he manipulated her into committing murder. While the ways Jessica chooses to cope probably won’t make it to a top-10 list of healthy choices in Psychology Today , they’re the only tools she has.
Jessica Jones is a suspenseful and powerful crime thriller, but it’s also an affecting depiction of the aftermath of horrific trauma.
Read less Doom Patrol (2019) tv-ma 4 Seasons Sci-Fi & Fantasy, Drama Diane Guerrero, April Bowlby, Joivan Wade Jeremy Carver watch on HBO Max watch on HBO Max The heroes of Doom Patrol rarely fight crime, and when they do, it doesn’t go well. They don’t fight armies of robots on floating cities or alien warlords looking for magical rocks. When they do act like superheroes in the sense of fighting evil, the threat is always incredibly bizarre — like teaming up with the SeX-Men to stop a world-threatening sex demon or trying to find their mentor, The Chief (Timothy Dalton), by journeying into another dimension whose doorway is the mouth of a donkey.
Ironically, while the series is certainly the strangest superhero show you’re likely to find, it’s also one of the most relatable. Its heroes include an experimental pilot burned beyond recognition, the brain of a race car driver trapped in a robot body, and a traumatized woman with dozens of splintered personalities. These self-styled freaks don’t care so much about justice or the battle between good and evil — they’re just trying to figure out how to live in the world.
Read less Justice League Unlimited (2004) tv-y7 3 Seasons Animation, Action & Adventure Kevin Conroy, George Newbern, Susan Eisenberg Bruce Timm, Gardner Fox watch on HBO Max watch on HBO Max Created as a follow-up to the popular animated Justice League that premiered in 2001, Justice League Unlimited is a love letter to the DC Comics superhero mythos. While its predecessor focused on the core League members with rare guest appearances by the likes of Doctor Fate or the New Gods, Justice League Unlimited expands the team’s roster to include dozens of new and old DC crime fighters — some reaching far back to Golden Age obscurity.
Early episodes, for example, focus on heroes like Green Arrow and Stargirl, long before either were headed for their own live-action series on the CW. Marquee heroes like Superman, Batman, and Wonder Woman are still regular features, but fans also get to see Huntress date The Question and Green Arrow begin a romance with Black Canary while they’re caught in a deadly underground arena. One of JLU ‘s most impressive accomplishments comes as early as its second episode — For the Man Who Has Everything — when the series adapts the classic 1985 Superman Annual #11 by Alan Moore and Dave Gibbons, the same creative team that made Watchmen.
Read less Batman: The Animated Series (1992) tv-pg 4 Seasons Action & Adventure, Animation, Drama, Mystery Kevin Conroy, Efrem Zimbalist Jr., Loren Lester Bruce Timm, Eric Radomski watch on HBO Max watch on HBO Max The success of 1989’s Batman and its 1992 sequel Batman Returns led to the influential cartoon Batman: The Animated Series.
 While its content is decidedly family-friendly, the series is surprisingly cinematic and sometimes even emotionally powerful. The show was influential enough to inspire companion series like Batman Beyond as well as similarly styled animated shows for other DC Comics characters.
The voice work of Kevin Conroy as the Dark Knight and Mark Hamill as the Joker forever married their talents to the Batman mythos in many fans’ minds , along with the writing and art of Bruce Timm and Paul Dini. Along with adapting many of the comics’ characters, Batman: The Animated Series spawned some of its own — most famously the Joker’s girlfriend Harley Quinn, who has since become one of DC’s most popular creations.
Read less Legion (2017) tv-ma 3 Seasons Action & Adventure, Sci-Fi & Fantasy Dan Stevens, Rachel Keller, Aubrey Plaza Noah Hawley watch on Hulu watch on Hulu Read less Editors' Recommendations The best new shows to stream on Netflix, Hulu, Max (HBO), and more The 50 best shows on Netflix in November 2023 The best movies and shows on Shudder right now (November 2023) The 14 best sitcoms on Netflix right now (November 2023) The best shows on Max (formerly HBO Max) right now Best Products Movie images and data from: Entertainment The best shows on Hulu right now include some exciting options across every genre, from originals like Only Murders in the Building to FX partnership titles like the new series A Murder at the End of the World starring Emma Corrin and popular shows like Fargo, which returns for its fifth season this month with Jon Hamm joining the cast. There's so much to choose from on Hulu, but where do you start? To help you make the right choice, we have highlighted the best shows on the streaming service, with a short synopsis of what each one is about and why it's worth watching. Not every title will be every person's cup of tea, but if you're in the mood for horror when your partner wants a rom-com, you might actually be able to find something in the middle, or at least be able to compromise with a rom-com that's not too sappy. Have a read and find the right show for you.
Entertainment Apple TV+ has solidified itself as one of the best streaming services, and when it comes to the best shows on Apple TV+ right now, the list continues to grow. New titles are being added all the time, whether brand-new shows or new seasons of popular ones. This month, for example, For All Mankind returns for its fourth season, while the period drama The Buccaneers is sure to attract fans of shows like Bridgerton. Apple also continues to attract A-list talent, with Kurt Russell heading up the new show Monarch: Legacy of Monsters.
In case you haven't figured it out, no matter what you're in the mood for, Apple TV+ has you covered. From established, award-winning shows like The Morning Show, which concludes its third season this month, to exciting titles like Silo, which will be returning for a second season in the near future, chances are there's a great show on Apple TV+ you haven't watched yet.
Entertainment Netflix is known for having tons of foreign language content, and many of these series have become huge successes: remember Squid Game, for instance? Shows from different countries outside of North America are making waves, and this includes British TV shows. While these are still in the English language, they have a different look, feel, and tone that makes them exciting.
Of course, there are also U.K.-set shows that aren't necessarily British, like Bridgerton and its spinoff Queen Charlotte: A Bridgerton Story but the shows are actually American productions. Nonetheless, Netflix has a wide selection of series that feature British actors, are set in places like London, and come right from England. We have rounded up the best ones you'll find, from top shows everyone is talking about to hidden gems.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
