Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix F1 Live Stream Stranger Things Season 5 Best New Movies Most Popular Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney+ UFC Live Stream Best Movies on Disney+ Home Entertainment Reviews Dead Ringers review: a darkly funny sci-fi showcase for Rachel Weisz By Alex Welch Close Rachel Weisz's powerhouse lead performances An infectious, well-calibrated sense of dark humor throughout A stylish, visually engaging aesthetic A messy final pair of episodes A flat and uninteresting romance subplot A few lackluster supporting performances Dead Ringers is the funniest show of the year. That might seem like a strange thing to say about a series that is itself an adaptation of an acclaimed David Cronenberg-directed body horror film from 1988, but such is the case with Dead Ringers.
 The new Prime Video limited series from The Wonder and Lady Macbeth writer Alice Birch approaches its subject matter with such a morbidly funny sense of humor that even its most startlingly brutal moments are able to cut deep without disrupting its delicate tonal balance.
The show’s ability to combine black comedy with shocking moments of sci-fi horror and gore isn’t just a testament to the wry, unsentimental tone that Birch brings to it, but also the ferocious work done by its star, Rachel Weisz. As the series’ twin leads, Beverly and Elliot Mantle, Weisz is alternatively soft and empathetic and gleefully mercurial, depending on which role she’s playing. Rarely has it ever been so much fun to watch one performer act opposite themselves on-screen, and rarely has it ever seemed so fun for the actor in question. To call the energy Weisz brings to Dead Ringers infectious would be an understatement.
Courtesy of Prime Video The Oscar-winning actress is given double duty here. Much like Jeremy Irons before her, Weisz is tasked with portraying not just one brilliant gynecological surgeon in Dead Ringers , but two. In case that wasn’t enough, Elliot and Beverly Mantle also couldn’t be more different from each other. Whereas Beverly is a heartsick, shy genius who genuinely wants to make pregnancy easier for every woman around the world, Elliot is an adrenaline junkie who wants to use her and her sister’s long-desired birthing center to continue furthering her own scientific pursuits in private.
3 sci-fi movies on Prime Video you need to watch in November 3 sci-fi movies on Prime Video you need to watch in October 3 underrated sci-fi movies on Amazon Freevee you should watch right now In order to open their birthing center, Beverly and Elliot have to win over Rebecca (Jennifer Ehle), a rich, mercenary investor who’s more interested in how the Mantle twins’ efforts will make her wealthier than she is in the humanitarian reasons behind their mission. However, just when Rebecca opens the door for Elliot and Beverly to get everything they’ve ever wanted, their relationship is tested by the introduction of Genevieve (Britne Oldford), a successful actress whose romance with Beverly starts to reveal the cracks in the Mantle sisters’ lifelong, codependent bond.
Dead Ringers , consequently, mines most of its drama from the ways in which Beverly and Elliot — particularly the latter — react to the growing tension between them.
Weisz predictably dives all the way into that tension — portraying Elliot’s growing anxiety over her sister’s independence, as well as Beverly’s uncertainty about her own identity, with equal amounts of vigor and vulnerability. Physically, Weisz constantly finds new ways of differentiating her performances as Beverly and Elliot, whether it be the way she always wears her hair up in a ponytail when she’s the former or the way she communicates the latter’s anarchic sense of intense curiosity with the slightest of smirks or the occasional cock of the head. The actress never has anything but a firm chokehold over her material, even — and especially — in the moments when Elliot and Beverly don’t.
Niko Tavernise/Prime Video Narratively and structurally, Dead Ringers feels less assured than its star. The series’ first four installments are exhilaratingly constructed and performed. A majority of the show’s second episode is spent cutting back-and-forth between a satirical dinner party in which Beverly and Elliot are happily grilled by the rich friends of Ehle’s Rebecca and a car ride that Weisz’s twins took earlier in the day. It’s an ambitious structural decision, but one that pays off. By cutting between Rebecca’s dinner party and Beverly and Elliot’s journey to it, the episode not only avoids feeling too locked into one location, but it also allows its leads’ scathing opinions of Ehle’s rich donor and her friends to be interwoven with their interactions with them.
Dead Ringers ’ first, third, and fourth installments offer similar pleasures, including one rooftop conversation between Weisz’s Elliot and a local homeless woman that strikes the perfect balance between surreal, perfect, and funny. In its final two installments, however, Dead Ringers begins to stumble. The series’ penultimate episode tells a Southern Gothic story about the horrifying history of modern gynecology that, despite the good intentions behind its inclusion, feels tonally, thematically, and visually like it belongs in another show. Meanwhile, in its finale, Dead Ringers tries to pay homage to its Cronenbergian roots by going all-in on body horror with a series of final twists that, while shocking, don’t amount to an entirely satisfying conclusion for the show’s story.
The impact of the narrative missteps it makes along the way, particularly in its second half, is lessened by the stylish work done by the series’ directors. Sean Durkin directs the show’s’ first two installments and achieves a cinematic look and style that helps differentiate Dead Ringers from so many of the less visually striking TV series that are on the air right now. The show’s black-and-white-heavy color palette reflects the juxtaposition between Weisz’s pale complexion and dark hair — making the actress feel as much like a part of the show’s Kubrickian world as she does its story. The series’ striking use of red throughout its six episodes also effectively communicates the horror elements that often lurk just beneath the surface of its plot.
Niko Tavernise/Prime Video Much like the unevenness of the show’s narrative structure, the performances given by Dead Ringers ’ cast members aren’t as consistently compelling as one would hope they’d be. Veteran performers like Michael Chernus and Jennifer Ehle shine in largely one-note roles, but the same can’t be said for Oldford, whose chemistry with Weisz is practically nonexistent. The flatness of Oldford’s Genevieve, which can be attributed to both the actress’ performance as her and the lackluster way her character is written, makes it difficult to buy into her romance with Beverly. Unfortunately, the latter’s storyline suffers quite a bit as a result.
With a performer like Weisz at the helm, though, Dead Ringers is never in danger of becoming uninteresting or too messy to keep up with. In her dual leading roles, Weisz chews up and spits out everything that’s thrown her way and delivers one of the best double acts in recent TV history. Together, she and Birch turn Dead Ringers into a show that isn’t quite as vicious or heartbreaking as its Cronenbergian roots may suggest, but is far funnier and more entertaining than it has any right to be.
If nothing else, it’s worth seeking out as a reminder of how multifaceted a performer Weisz has always been. The true genius of her work here isn’t in just how thoroughly she devours Dead Ringers , either, but in how she manages to make the mere act of watching her do so feel so fun.
Dead Ringers premieres Friday, April 21 on Prime Video. Digital Trends was given early access to all six of the series’ episodes.
Editors' Recommendations Upload season 3’s ending, explained 5 shows to watch if you like the Prime Video sci-fi series Upload 3 sci-fi movies on Prime Video you need to watch in September 5 Prime Video sci-fi shows that are perfect to watch in the summer 5 great sci-fi movies to watch on Prime Video in August Amazon Amazon Prime Video Product Reviews Streaming Services Entertainment Adapted from author Hugh Howey's series of books, showrunner Graham Yost's Silo wrapped up an impressive first season on Apple TV+. The Rebecca Ferguson-led sci-fi thriller brought to screen a captivating world filled with tantalizing mysteries, but there are plenty of video games for fans to get more of their dystopian fix.
These kinds of worlds and stories are ripe for immersion and deeply layered worldbuilding, as many talented developer studios have made their mark on the dystopian sci-fi subgenre. From Bethesda Game Studios' iconic Fallout series to 2K's (now Irrational Games) groundbreaking BioShock, these titles all have elements that fans of Apple TV+'s Silo should enjoy.
Fallout 3 (2008) Entertainment Rachel Weisz (Black Widow) is in double the trouble as the Oscar winner plays twins in Prime Video's upcoming series Dead Ringers, which released its official trailer on Wednesday morning. The psychological thriller is a gender-flipped adaption of David Cronenberg's 1988 film of the same name starring Jeremy Irons (House of Gucci).
Weisz plays Elliot and Beverly Mantle, twin gynecologists looking to push the limits of medical ethics and revolutionize women's health care. As one of the twins says in the trailer, they do work that is "groundbreaking, but hopeful." The twins are disturbingly codependent, as the women share everything from drugs to lovers and ideals. Set to the Soft Cell's Tainted Love, the trailer shows how the twins seek to change how women give birth, even if it involves radical measures.
Entertainment What do extraterrestrial invasions, sentient cyborgs, and time-traveling all have in common? They're all variations of the sci-fi genre, and far beyond the shelves of dusty used bookstores, you can find science fiction across all mediums these days. In fact, if you’re a fan of sci-fi movies, one of the best places to watch them is Amazon Prime Video.
As fans of both the streaming service and the genre, we've gone ahead and rounded up all the best sci-fi movies you can watch on Prime Video.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
