Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix F1 Live Stream Stranger Things Season 5 Best New Movies Most Popular Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney+ UFC Live Stream Best Movies on Disney+ Home Entertainment Features Here are the big winners from the 2019 Emmy Awards By Christine Persaud Close The 71st annual Emmy Awards have concluded, and eager TV fans were able to see which actors and series took home the statue in the top categories. If you didn’t catch the awards, however, we’ve got you covered.
Outstanding Lead Actress in a Drama Series Outstanding Lead Actor in a Drama Series Outstanding Lead Actor in a Limited Series or Movie Outstanding Lead Actress in a Limited Series or Movie Outstanding Lead Actor in a Comedy Series Outstanding Lead Actress in a Comedy Series Outstanding Supporting Actress in a Drama Series Outstanding Supporting Actor in a Drama Series Outstanding Supporting Actress in a Comedy Series Outstanding Supporting Actor in a Comedy Series Outstanding Limited Series or Movie Outstanding Drama Series Outstanding Comedy Series Outstanding Supporting Actor in a Limited Series or Movie Outstanding Supporting Actress in a Limited Series or Movie Outstanding Variety Talk Series Outstanding Variety Sketch Series Outstanding Television Movie Outstanding Reality Competition Series Here’s a list of all the winners in the main categories, including a few big surprises.
Outstanding Lead Actress in a Drama Series Image used with permission by copyright holder Emilia Clarke ( Game of Thrones) Jodie Comer ( Killing Eve ) Viola Davis ( How To Get Away With Murder ) Laura Linney ( Ozark ) Mandy Moore ( This Is Us ) Sandra Oh ( Killing Eve ) Robin Wright ( House of Cards ) 2022 Emmy winners: who took home the big awards? Oscars winners 2022: Who took home the major awards? Here are the 2020 Emmy Awards winners Winner: Even Comer didn’t think she was going to win against the stiff competition in this category, but she found herself on the big stage to accept her award for playing a ruthless, psychopathic assassin in this BBC America British spy thriller. This marks her first-ever Primetime Emmy nomination and win.
Outstanding Lead Actor in a Drama Series Sarah Shatz / FX Networks Jason Bateman ( Ozark ) Sterling K. Brown ( This Is Us ) Kit Harington ( Game of Thrones ) Bob Odenkirk ( Better Call Saul ) Billy Porter ( Pose ) Mila Ventimiglia ( This Is Us ) Winner: The Tony Award-winning Broadway theater performer Billy Porter beat out serious competition in this category to earn the award for his starring role in the FX drama about the African-American and Latino LGBTQ and gender-nonconforming ballroom culture scene in 1980s and 1990s New York. This marks his first Emmy nomination and win.
Outstanding Lead Actor in a Limited Series or Movie Atsushi Nitijima / Netflix Mahershala Ali ( True Detective ) Benicio Del Toro ( Escape at Dannemora ) Hugh Grant ( A Very English Scandal ) Jared Harris ( Chernobyl ) Jharrel Jerome ( When They See Us ) Sam Rockwell ( Fosse/Verdon ) Winner: In the second category upset of the night, the 21-year-old Jerome took home the award for his role in the Netflix drama based on the events of the 1989 Central Park jogger case. He played Korey Wise, one of the young men wrongfully convicted of the crime, and the only one tried as an adult since he was 16 at the time. Wise later became an activist for criminal justice reform.
Outstanding Lead Actress in a Limited Series or Movie Image used with permission by copyright holder Amy Adams ( Sharp Objects ) Patricia Arquette ( Escape at Dannemora ) Aunjanue Ellis ( When They See Us ) Joey King ( The Act ) Niecy Nash ( When They See Us ) Michelle Williams ( Fosse/Verdon ) Winner: While Amy Adams is just about due for an Emmy (and long overdue for an Academy win ), as predicted, Michelle Williams won for her role as actress and dancer Gwen Verdon in the FX biographical miniseries about the troubled relationship between Verdon and her director/choreographer Bob Fosse (played by Sam Rockwell).
Outstanding Lead Actor in a Comedy Series Image used with permission by copyright holder Anthony Anderson ( Black-ish ) Don Cheadle ( Black Monday ) Ted Danson ( The Good Place ) Michael Douglas ( The Kominsky Method ) Bill Hader ( Barry ) Eugene Levy ( Schitt’s Creek ) Winner: Bill Hader took home the statue last year, and given the series’ continued stellar reviews, it’s no surprise that he did it again this year. In the HBO tragicomedy, Hader plays the lead role of a hit-man-turned-actor. The series has already gotten the green light for its third season.
Outstanding Lead Actress in a Comedy Series Image used with permission by copyright holder Christina Applegate ( Dead to Me ) Rachel Brosnahan ( The Marvelous Mrs. Maisel ) Julia Louis-Dreyfus ( Veep ) Natasha Lyonne ( Russian Doll ) Catherine O’Hara ( Schitt’s Creek ) Phoebe Waller-Bridge ( Fleabag ) Winner: In a major upset, Waller-Bridge took home the win this year, preventing Julia Louis-Dreyfus from snagging the record for the most Emmy wins ever for a single actor. Earlier in the night, Waller-Bridge won for Outstanding Writing for a Comedy Series as well for the Amazon series.
Outstanding Supporting Actress in a Drama Series Jessica Miglio / Netflix Gwendoline Christie ( Game of Thrones ) Julia Garner ( Ozark ) Lena Headey ( Game of Thrones ) Fiona Shaw ( Killing Eve ) Sophie Turner ( Game of Thrones ) Maisie Williams ( Game of Thrones ) Winner: Even with such fierce competition among GoT actors in this category, Garner pulled out a win for her intoxicating performance as the 19-year-old Ruth, a fierce and independent young woman from a local criminal family. This marks the first Emmy nomination and win for the 25-year-old.
Outstanding Supporting Actor in a Drama Series HBO Alfie Allen ( Game of Thrones ) Jonathan Banks ( Better Call Saul ) Nikolaj Coster-Waldau ( Game of Thrones ) Peter Dinklage ( Game of Thrones ) Giancarlo Esposito ( Better Call Saul ) Michael Kelly ( House of Cards ) Chris Sullivan ( This Is Us ) Winner: With seven Emmy nominations for his role as Tyrion Lannister on GoT, and three wins including last year, Peter Dinklage took home a fourth for playing the youngest Lannister son, who was written out of the history books, despite his integral role in saving Westeros.
Outstanding Supporting Actress in a Comedy Series Image used with permission by copyright holder Alex Borstein ( The Marvelous Mrs. Maisel ) Anna Chlumsky ( Veep ) Sian Clifford ( Fleabag ) Olivia Colman ( Fleabag ) Betty Gilpin ( GLOW ) Sarah Goldberg ( Barry ) Marin Hinkle ( The Marvelous Mrs. Maisel ) Kate McKinnon ( Saturday Night Live ) Winner: Alex Borstein won again for her role as Susie Myerson, manager to stand-up comedian Midge (Brosnahan) in this period comedy/drama from Amazon Prime Video. This marks back-to-back wins for Borstein.
Outstanding Supporting Actor in a Comedy Series Amazon Alan Arkin ( The Kominsky Method ) Anthony Carrigan ( Barry ) Tony Hale ( Veep ) Stephen Root ( Barry ) Tony Shalhoub ( The Marvelous Mrs. Maisel ) Henry Winkler ( Barry ) Winner : Henry Winkler won last year, but this year, Tony Shalhoub took home the statue for the first time for his role in the Amazon series. This is Shalhoub’s fourth Emmy overall, having won the first three in the early ’00s for his leading role in the series Monk.
Outstanding Limited Series or Movie HBO Chernobyl (HBO) Escape at Dannemora (Showtime) Fosse/Verdon (FX) Sharp Objects (HBO) When They See Us (Netflix) Winner: HBO’s Chernobyl delivered a terrifyingly real chronicle of events that both led to the Chernobyl disaster of 1986 and what happened in the aftermath. With incredible performances and visuals all around, it came as no surprise that this five-part historical miniseries took home the win.
Outstanding Drama Series HBO Better Call Saul (AMC) Bodyguard (Netflix) Game of Thrones (HBO) Killing Eve (AMC/BBC America) Ozark (Netflix) Pose (FX) Succession (HBO) This Is Us (NBC) Winner: Despite its epically polarizing final season, as expected, Game of Thrones won in this category. The HBO series set viewership records for its series finale , and while many viewers were not happy with the ending, it was a wonderful sendoff for the series to receive its fourth and final award in this category.
Outstanding Comedy Series Image used with permission by copyright holder Barry (HBO) Fleabag (Amazon Prime) The Good Place (NBC) The Marvelous Mrs. Maisel (Amazon Prime) Russian Doll (Netflix) Schitt’s Creek (Pop) Veep (HBO) Winner: While Amazon still took home the win in this category, it wasn’t for The Marvelous Mrs. Maisel this time, but rather for the British comedy-drama Fleabag about an angry, confused, sexually awoken young woman living in London. The series is adapted from a one-woman play of the same name.
A few other notable awards categories: Outstanding Supporting Actor in a Limited Series or Movie Asante Blackk ( When They See Us ), Paul Dano ( Escape at Dannemora ), John Leguizamo ( When They See Us ), Stellan Skarsgard ( Chernobyl ), Ben Whishaw ( A Very English Scandal ) , Michael K. Williams ( When They See Us ) (Last year’s winner: Jeff Daniels, Godless ) Outstanding Supporting Actress in a Limited Series or Movie Patricia Arquette ( The Act ), Marsha Stephanie Blake ( When They See Us ), Patricia Clarkson ( Sharp Objects , Vera Farmiga ( When They See Us ), Margaret Qualley ( Fosse/Verdon ), Emily Watson ( Chernobyl ). (Last year’s winner: Merritt Wever, Godless ) Outstanding Variety Talk Series The Daily Show With Trevor Noah (Comedy Central), Full Frontal with Samantha Bee (TBS), Jimmy Kimmel Live (ABC), Last Week Tonight with John Oliver (HBO), Late Late Show with James Corden (CBS), Late Show with Stephen Colbert (CBS). (Last year’s winner: Last Week Tonight With John Oliver , HBO) Outstanding Variety Sketch Series At Home With Amy Sedaris (truTV), Documentary Now! (IFC), Drunk History (Comedy Central), I Love You, America With Sarah Silverman ( Hulu ), Saturday Night Live (NBC) , Who is America? (Showtime). (Last year’s winner: Saturday Night Live , NBC) Outstanding Television Movie Black Mirror: Bandersnatch (Netflix) , Brexit (HBO), Deadwood: The Movie (HBO), King Lear (Amazon Prime), My Dinner With Herve (HBO). (Last year’s winner: Black Mirror: USS Callister , Netflix) Outstanding Reality Competition Series The Amazing Race (CBS), American Ninja Warrior (NBC), Nailed It (Netflix), RuPaul’s Drag Race (VH1) , Top Chef (Bravo), The Voice (NBC). (Last year’s winner: RuPaul’s Drag Race , VH1) Editors' Recommendations The Last of Us lands 24 Emmy Award nominations Succession and Ted Lasso dominate the 2022 Emmy nominations 2021 Emmy winners: Who took home the big awards? How Westworld’s visual effects looked into the future to earn an Emmy nomination Watchmen, Mrs. Maisel, and The Mandalorian lead Emmy nominations Audio / Video Features Entertainment The 92nd Academy Awards took place on Sunday night, February 9, celebrating the year's best in cinema. For the second year in a row, the event did not have a host, though Steve Martin and Chris Rock took to the stage to introduce the first presenter and get the crowd laughing. The program included an upbeat opening performance by Janelle Monae and a showstopping surprise: A performance by Eminem of Lose Yourself from the 2002 film 8 Mile, which was the first hip-hop song ever to win an Academy Award for Best Song.
The controversial Todd Phillips film Joker led the nominations with a total of 11, followed by Martin Scorsese’s The Irishman and Quentin Tarantino’s Once Upon a Time... in Hollywood with 10 each. Other films that got massive recognition across multiple categories include Little Women, Marriage Story, Jojo Rabbit, 1917, and Parasite.
Audio / Video We were pretty wowed by Samsung's slate of new TVs at this year's CES in Las Vegas. With impressive new features, more sizes, and even better image quality, the only remaining questions were: How much will they cost, and when can we get them? We now have answers to both, along with all of the other details around Samsung's 2019 TV lineup.
New features This year, all of Samsung's Smart TVs will be equipped with Apple's iTunes Movie and TV show catalog of content -- a Samsung exclusive for now -- as well as AirPlay 2. The company's 2018 TVs are also expected to get AirPlay 2. The Universal Guide feature has been updated for better usability and now includes available iTunes content for rent or purchase. Samsung's Bixby intelligent personal assistant makes its debut on the 2019 TVs, and the company's One Remote has been given far-field mics to pick up voice commands from anywhere in the room. Google Assistant and Amazon Alexa are both slated to be added to these TVs later in the year.
Gamers will appreciate the changes to Samsung's Real Game Enhancer option, which now incorporates AMD's Radeon Freesync variable refresh rate technology, which the company claims will help prevent tearing and stuttering. Game Motion Plus is also present, which removes motion blur and judder.
Smart Home Amazon didn't hold back at its Devices Event on Wednesday, unleashing more than a dozen new products. And Alexa was the star of the show, of course, with new kid-friendly skills, privacy features, and Alexa-connected products from the regular old Echo Dot to a smart ring and glasses that connect to the virtual assistant. You'll even soon be able to replace Alexa's default voice with Samuel L. Jackson's.
If you missed the event and want to catch up, here's everything that Amazon announced on Wednesday.
Wearables: Alexa in everything Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
