Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix F1 Live Stream Stranger Things Season 5 Best New Movies Most Popular Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney+ UFC Live Stream Best Movies on Disney+ Home Entertainment Guides Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Jury Duty is 2023’s best new comedy show so far. Here’s why you should watch it By Jason Struss Close It’s only May, but TV fans have already been treated to great new shows and returning series.
Poker Face started things off on a high note, bringing back the Colombo -style detective shows from the 1970s and giving them a modern polish thanks to creator Rian Johnson and lead star Natasha Lyonne.
The Last of Us became a pop culture phenomenon, and Netflix again scored hits with The Night Agent and The Diplomat.
 Comedy shows have been thriving too, from solid middlebrow hits like Unstable and That ’90s Show to excellent social satires like Beef and Lucky Hank.
 Heck, even broadcast comedies have been shockingly not bad, with NBC’s Night Court revival and Fox’s Animal Control good enough for lots of charm and a few chuckles.
It’s got a simple, but intriguing concept The main ‘character’ is a terrible actor (and that’s a good thing) The supporting cast is Office-level good James Marsden shines as … James Marsden It’s surprisingly subtle and sweet It’s even better when you watch it a second time (or third or fourth) It’s free! But which one’s the best, the one you should drop everything for and watch immediately? Would you believe me if I told you the best new comedy show of the year (so far) is a unique reality show/mockumentary hybrid starring mostly no-name actors, centered around a gimmick that is essentially one long tired joke, with a generic title that evokes a bad Pauly Shore movie from the ’90s and is currently available to stream on Freevee , Amazon’s ad-supported stepsister to its more premium Prime Video ? I can hardly believe it myself, but it’s true: Jury Duty , the under-the-radar comedy that premiered just a month ago, is 2023’s best new comedy. Here are a few reasons why you should watch it.
It’s got a simple, but intriguing concept Image used with permission by copyright holder Jury Duty ‘s tagline sums up the concept perfectly: “12 jurors. 11 actors.” Ronald Gladden, a 29-year-old SoCal bro and solar contractor from San Diego, is called for jury duty for a seemingly mundane civil case: a rich woman is suing one of her poor employees for damages to her T-shirt-making company. Ronald goes through all the steps one takes in the process: waiting for the call to enter the courtroom, being assessed by both the prosecution and the defense, jury selection, being sequestered, visiting an outside location to examine evidence, and, finally, deciding whether or not the defendant is liable. Camera crews are documenting the trial process for an unnamed reality TV show, so Ronald assumes everything is legit.
This underrated 2023 horror movie on Netflix deserves more love. Here’s why you should watch it This action war movie is popular on Netflix. Here’s why you should watch it Bodies is one of Netflix’s most popular shows right now. Here’s why you should watch it It isn’t. Everyone involved in the trial, from the other jurors that serve with Ronald to the lawyers arguing the case to the judge, are actors. They are all hired for one specific purpose: to deceive Ronald into actually thinking the case is real. The ruse works, and that’s what makes the show so hypnotic to watch. There is a constant tension between whether or not Ronald will figure out it’s all an elaborate setup, and it’s that tension that generates much of the show’s off-kilter humor.
The main ‘character’ is a terrible actor (and that’s a good thing) Image used with permission by copyright holder Usually, a TV show sinks when the lead actor is wooden and not that great of an actor. The reverse is true with Jury Duty since Ronald, who usually is stone-faced throughout the trial, isn’t an actor and he doesn’t pretend to be one or play to the camera for laughs. When something unusual happens, like when a fellow juror asks him to jump up and down on his bed to help him have sex with a girl (don’t ask), he doesn’t recoil in horror or laugh out loud; instead, he politely declines, as if the request was perfectly ordinary and not at all weird and inappropriate.
Ronald’s blankness, and his refusal to show how the absurdity of the trial is affecting him, are what help sell the concept. You believe he’s just an ordinary Joe plucked from the street, not an actor “playing” a normal person, which he isn’t. It provides a good contrast to the other jurors, who each have a character trait they embody and play with throughout the series. And speaking of the jury … The supporting cast is Office-level good Image used with permission by copyright holder Each member of the jury, and even the lawyers and defendants involved in the case, are hilarious and evoke another workplace mockumentary that is beloved by the public: The Office.
 While that show was centered on Michael Scott and, to a lesser degree, Jim, Pam, and Dwight, it benefited from its deep bench of supporting characters like Stanley, Phyllis, Creed, Angela, Oscar, and the rest.
Jury Duty functions the same way, supporting Ronald with a colorful cast of characters that are both believable and very, very funny. That shouldn’t be too much of a surprise, as Jury Duty ‘s creators, Lee Eisenberg and Gene Stupnitsky, also worked on The Office.
There’s Todd, who’s obsessed with making his own homemade cybernetics and creates his own “seatpants” out of crutches and duct tape that have little functional use in the real world. (His scenes where he tries to sit with his invention, both in a van to the courthouse and on the jury itself, are the show’s funniest and achieve a kind of absurd perfection.) Mousy nerd Noah becomes gradually obsessed by his growing realization that his girlfriend is cheating on him, while senior citizen Barb keeps falling asleep while the trial is in process (it’s Ronald’s job to keep her awake, which provides several bits of inspired comedy).
Amazon Freevee Did I mention Officer Nikki, who’s had it up to here with Todd’s odd behavior and just wants to have a nice meal at Jimmy Buffett’s Margaritaville? Or Jeannie, who wears inappropriately revealing shirts and has a thing for corrupting nerds? (Noah, naturally, is her primary target). There’s Inez, who wants to take charge of even the most minuscule of tasks like ordering lunch, and Shaun Sanders, the inept defense attorney who keeps messing up the most basic of duties, like bringing the right case file to work. While Jury Duty ‘s high concept initially brings you in, it’s the entire cast of talented character actors committing 100% to the bit that makes you stay and watch.
James Marsden shines as … James Marsden Image used with permission by copyright holder There’s one person in the cast I haven’t mentioned yet since he deserves a special spotlight. James Marsden, the actor most famous for the X-Men and Sonic the Hedgehog movies , has his best role in years as … James Marsden. It’s a bit cliché at this point for actors to play exaggerated versions of themselves (Nicolas Cage just did it last year in The Unbearable Wight of Massive Talent ), but here it works because Marsden isn’t afraid to poke fun at his B-list status. Frequently referred to as “X-Man,” Jury Duty ‘s version of Marsden is desperate to prove how important he is by frequently referencing the current (fake) project he is involved in, a Yellowstone -type Western drama.
He’s also a terrible person who doesn’t want to be blamed for anything embarrassing that might tarnish his image. This reaches its apex when Marsden asks Ronald if he can use his bathroom to, er, take care of business. He ends up clogging the toilet, which necessitates a plumber to come and solve the problem. Marsden pleads with Ronald to take the blame, which he does without protest. What’s funny about this bit is how desperate James is for Ronald to take the fall, with Marsden going out of his way to indicate it was indeed Ronald who clogged the toilet and not the actor who played Cyclops and starred in the cheesy comedy Sex Drive.
 It’s stupid and crass, but it’s also funny, and it shows Marsden is game to disparage his own image for a well-earned laugh or two.
It’s surprisingly subtle and sweet Image used with permission by copyright holder With a concept that relies primarily on deception and lying, Jury Duty is surprisingly good-natured and, dare I say, subtle? Yes, this is a show that uses excrement and masturbation as gags, but it never goes too overboard with its premise or in how it executes its elaborate lie. A good example of Jury Duty ‘s restrained approach is when Ronald has to make sure Barb stays awake during the trial. Just before one session, she confesses she’s ingested a cookie laced with Dexedrine to stay awake.
A lesser show would’ve made Barb hallucinate and trippy as a result, but instead, Jury Duty just has her laugh occasionally as the trial progresses. The comedy here isn’t necessarily how Barb reacts to her the drugs in her system; rather, it’s how Ronald reacts to Barb, knowing she has drugs in her system. It’s subtle approach to a conventional comedic setup, and it makes the show better by not doing the obvious.
Jury Duty also showcases a sweetness behind its humor, and that’s largely due to Ronald. When confronted with Barb’s behavior, he doesn’t rat her out or disparage her; instead, he congratulates her for staying awake. Todd is initially presented as a weirdo, but Ronald takes him under his wing and encourages him to be more socially outgoing. When the judge tasks him with being the foreperson, Ronald steps up in a big way, and he manages to get the group together to form a consensus as to whether or not the defendant is liable. Since Ronald isn’t in on the joke, it’s his reactions to the pre-]fabricated bits that determine the show’s tone. Because Ronald is a stand-up guy, the show itself is a somewhat affirmative portrayal of humanity (at least, the slice of it that’s involved in the trial) and the legal system.
It’s even better when you watch it a second time (or third or fourth) Image used with permission by copyright holder I had a blast binging Jury Duty on my initial watch, enjoying the progression of the trial, meeting new characters, and marveling at the unique ways the producers weave multiple narratives that wrap around Ronald’s non-fictional presence. Yet my main interest was wondering just how and when the elaborate ruse would be revealed. When would Ronald find out? During deliberations? At the hotel where everyone is sequestered? And how would Ronald react when he discovers he’s been lied to by everyone? On my second re-watch of the show, I discovered that Jury Duty , like any other great comedy, holds many pleasures with repeat viewings. I noticed just how well all of the actors work together to create a believe pool of strangers thrust together by their civic duty. At times, I caught an actor almost breaking character because another actor was being too funny with their improv skills. (This is most apparent when everyone is asked to give their impression of Tim, the injured juror who leaves in episode 2.) Most importantly, I marveled how just how well-constructed and directed this show is.
Jury Duty is a delicate balancing act, one that involves weaving an engaging fictional narrative while also making sure its central subject remains oblivious to that narrative, and it’s great to watch just how smoothly everything comes together episode by episode.
It’s free! You usually have to pay for quality entertainment, especially in this age of streaming, but Jury Duty is the rare great comedy that’s also free. All eight episodes of its inaugural season are currently streaming on Amazon’s Freevee service, and the only cost is the occasional 90-second ad here and there.
It’s not the first Freevee Original show, but it’s certainly the only one I binge-watched in a day– and it seems I’m not alone. The show holds an astounding 98% audience rating on Rotten Tomatoes.
 While I usually don’t hold those kinds of metrics as indicators of quality, in Jury Duty ‘s case, it is. It’s the rare modern comedy series that critics passed over and is now being reclaimed by an appreciative audience. I fell under its spell one afternoon in late April, and I don’t regret it. Chances are, you won’t either.
Season 1 of Jury Duty is now streaming on Freevee. Want to know more about the show? Then read 8 interesting facts about Jury Duty.
Editors' Recommendations 6 best TV shows you need to watch in December 3 underrated 1980s sci-fi TV shows you should watch in November One of 2023’s best-reviewed movies is now on Netflix. Here’s why you should watch it Cobweb is 2023’s most underrated horror movie. Here’s why you should watch it The Vigil is the scariest movie on Hulu right now. Here’s why you should watch it Amazon Entertainment It's the Halloween season, and fans are looking for the best horror movies on Netflix. While there are some great horror flicks on Netflix, like Get Out, we want to narrow things down to the scariest movie on Netflix. Our pick is a little known film called His House, from first-time director Remi Weekes.
Sope Dirisu and Wunmi Mosaku star as a married couple, Bol and Rial, who have escaped the war in their native Sudan to find refuge in the U.K. Unfortunately, the couple's new lives aren't all they hoped for, and something evil has followed them into their home. It's a haunting experience that feels like a breath of fresh air for the genre. It's not a typical jump-scare horror movie, and some of its horrors are all too real.
Entertainment Even as it was beginning to blow up at the box office, science fiction was still relatively rare on TV in the 1970s. That's due in part to the budgets simply not being adequate enough to make the shows look convincing.
If you were really looking for it, though, there were some great 1970s sci-fi series that laid the groundwork for everything that would come in the decades that followed. These series helped establish a mold for what sci-fi storytelling could be like on TV, and many shows are still indebted to them today.
Blake's 7 (1978) Blake's 7 trailer Entertainment It's Taylor Swift's world, we're just living in it. This weekend, Taylor Swift: The Eras Tour is poised for a superhero-worthy box-office performance that will put all other concert movies to shame. Swift is at the peak of her popularity and is one of the few artists who could pull this off in the modern era. But even Swift had to start from scratch, as seen in Netflix's 2020 documentary, Taylor Swift: Miss Americana.
Miss Americana was very popular at the time of its release, in part because it offered fans a glimpse at Swift's real persona in a way that they had never seen her before. Prior to that, Swift had withheld many of the details about her personal life and simply focused on her music and performances. In retrospect, Miss Americana may have helped Swift reach even greater heights simply by letting people into her personal orbit through watching the film. So whether you're a new Swiftie or a veteran fan who wants to revisit this film, here are three reasons why you should watch Taylor Swift: Miss Americana.
It celebrates Taylor Swift's musical journey Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
