Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix F1 Live Stream Stranger Things Season 5 Best New Movies Most Popular Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney+ UFC Live Stream Best Movies on Disney+ Home Entertainment News Phoebe Waller-Bridge turns Emmys into huge Amazon deal, and TV is better for it By Rick Marshall Close Image used with permission by copyright holder Television shows are in a good place right now, with a wealth of quality shows across broadcast, cable, and streaming services. And with this year’s big Emmy winner Phoebe Waller-Bridge signing a massive deal with Amazon Studios, TV is poised to get even better.
Following a night at the Primetime Emmy Awards ceremony that saw her show Fleabag take home six Emmys and her other critically acclaimed series, Killing Eve , take home one of its own, Waller-Bridge signed a deal with Amazon Studios that’s reported to be one of the biggest of all time for a female writer-producer in the TV world. According to Deadline , the deal will have Waller-Bridge create and produce content exclusively for Amazon Prime Video — the home of Fleabag — over a three-year period.
Waller-Bridge has quickly become one of the TV industry’s most sought-after creators, thanks to the success of Fleabag , which she created, wrote, produced, and starred in over the course of the show’s two-season run as a joint production of BBC and Amazon Studios. She also created and serves as the executive producer on Killing Eve , the wildly popular BBC America drama that earned star Jodie Comer an Emmy this year and co-star Sandra Oh (who was also nominated for an Emmy) a Golden Globe Award. It was a supporting role on the popular British crime drama Broadchurch , however, that gave Waller-Bridge her breakout performance and gained her more widespread attention when the series arrived on Netflix.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Waller-Bridge is currently working on Run , a series she’s producing for HBO, She also plays a recurring role in the show alongside Domhnall Gleeson and Merritt Wever.
On the big screen, Waller-Bridge voiced the android L3-37 in 2018’s Star Wars prequel film Solo: A Star Wars Story and is currently on the writing team for the upcoming James Bond film, No Time to Die , the 25th installment of the global spy franchise that’s set to hit theaters in April 2020.
At this point, whatever Waller-Bridge touches in the TV world appears to turn to gold — the color of awards, in many cases.
Along with the Emmy and Golden Globe awards her shows have won in recent years, they’ve been the recipient of both BAFTA and Peabody Awards, Television Critics honors, and a long list of nominations throughout the TV awards circuit. At a time when the competition between streaming video services has never been more heated, her deal with Amazon gives the studio an impressive leg up on its rivals.
“I’m insanely excited to be continuing my relationship with Amazon,” said Waller-Bridge in the official announcement of the Amazon deal. “Working with the team on Fleabag was the creative partnership dreams are made of. It really feels like home. I can’t wait to get going!” There’s no word on exactly when the first project to come out of Waller-Bridge’s deal with Amazon will be announced.
Editors' Recommendations Amazon is giving you 6 months of MGM+ when you buy a new Fire TV God of War TV show officially ordered to series by Amazon Is new Fire TV hardware on the way at Amazon’s fall event? Amazon is putting Fire TV into more … cars Amazon’s Wheel of Time producers on balancing gender and the books’ epic timeline Audio / Video News Amazon Amazon Prime Video Apple Audio / Video Tucked away amid Amazon's myriad announcements on Tuesday — between the cameras and the robots and the excellent-looking Echo 15 — was a small but not insignificant item: Sling TV is coming to Amazon Echo Show.
Audio / Video Amazon has taken care of the larger part of the living room with the new Fire TV Omni Series -- the first-ever Amazon-built televisions -- but it hasn’t forgotten about the smaller side. Enter the new Amazon Fire TV Stick 4K Max. As the name implies, it’s basically the Amazon Fire TV Stick 4K — already the best Amazon Fire TV device for most people — just made even better. Mostly.
The Amazon Fire TV Stick 4K Max, and Alexa Voice Remote. Amazon / Amazon Entertainment J.R.R. Tolkien fans, get ready to return to Middle-earth. Amazon Studios is working on a new prequel series set in the Second Age of Tolkien's fictional world, thousands of years before the events of The Lord of the Rings and The Hobbit. The first season will hit Amazon Prime Video in 2021, despite a pause in production due to the coronavirus pandemic.
The series was first announced in November 2017, when Amazon issued a press release confirming the acquisition of global television rights for The Lord of The Rings and its intent to produce a prequel series. The most recent update involves a large group of new cast members confirmed for the show. Here's everything we know about the still-untitled series so far.
The premiere date After facing some COVID-related production delays, the first season of Amazon Prime Video's Lord of the Rings series has wrapped filming. It will premiere on September 2, 2022. To accompany the news, Amazon also released the first glimpse at the new show.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
