Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix F1 Live Stream Stranger Things Season 5 Best New Movies Most Popular Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney+ UFC Live Stream Best Movies on Disney+ Home Entertainment Reviews Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? The Boys Season 2 Review: A gory but satisfying second chapter By Rick Marshall Close Adaptations of comic books are in a great place right now, with traditional superhero fare co-existing with unconventional, critically praised shows like The Umbrella Academy , D oom Patrol , and The Boys.
Bloody good Team players A super villain Powered down Messaging rates The most risqué and gory of that trio — which is saying a lot — is Amazon Studios’ The Boys , based on Garth Ennis and Darick Robertson’s comic book series of the same name. Set in a world where corporate-controlled superheroes run wild , the show follows a group of vigilantes who make it their mission to police these larger-than-life threats.
The Nun 2’s ending, explained 5 great killer shark movies like The Meg 2 you need to watch And Just Like That… season 2, episode 3 release date, time, channel, and plot After a debut season devoted to introducing the show’s cast of colorful characters and getting inside their heads (sometimes literally), season 2 of The Boys dives deeper into the show’s morally challenged world with a tremendously satisfying story arc that offers plenty of narrative twists, compelling character development, and shocking moments.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Bloody good It would have been easy for The Boys to coast into its second season on spectacle alone, as the first season of the series made it clear that wince-inducing scenes of ultra-violence are something it does very, very well.
Few big- or small-screen projects have explored what happens when a super-speeding character accidentally runs into the average human, for example, but it was that sort of incident — and its messy aftermath — that the series premiere used to welcome audiences into the world of The Boys.
 That lopsided power dynamic between the “supes” and average humans becomes an even wider, grislier divide in season 2, with the series’ effects team leveling-up the blood-splattering, bone-crunching carnage that peppers the show’s second story arc.
Season 1 was messy, and in season 2, the flesh and viscera fly a little farther and the entrails squelch a little louder — but fortunately, The Boys never slips into becoming a one-trick gorefest.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Team players Where the first season focused on star-crossed lovers Hughie Campbell (Jack Quaid) and Annie January (Erin Moriarty), as well as Superman-like sociopath Homelander (Antony Starr) and the revenge-obsessed Billy Butcher (Karl Urban), season 2 pivots toward the show’s supporting cast.
The time spent with these characters is rewarding, as they rarely align with the sort of well-worn archetypes that define some of the show’s more prominent characters. And because of that difference, their backstories feel fresher and more fascinating.
Frenchie and Kimiko, The Boys’ munitions expert and silent secret weapon played by Tomer Capon and Karen Fukuhara, respectively, finally receive the attention their characters deserve in the season’s eight-episode arc. The same can also be said of The Boys’ remaining member, Mother’s Milk (Laz Alonso), whose screen time is increased significantly.
Putting the spotlight on these characters is a smart move, because weaving their narrative threads into the tapestry of the show ultimately makes it feel more grounded and resonant — something that’s particularly important for a show otherwise filled super-powered chaos.
Image used with permission by copyright holder A super villain The show’s “supes” also get plenty of time to shine — and do a long list of terrible things — in the show’s second season, but it’s Antony Starr who steals the show (again) as Homelander.
Given everything that happened in season 1 of The Boys , it’s reasonable to wonder how Starr and series showrunner Eric Kripke can top Homelander’s first-season power trip. And yet, it shouldn’t come as much of a spoiler to reveal that the leader of The Seven still has plenty of depravity to bring to the show.
In his performance as Homelander, Starr oozes narcissistic privilege and sadistic cruelty, blending the two traits into a villain you can’t take your eyes off anytime he’s on the screen, and his performance hits a new, terrifying high mark in season 2.
Image used with permission by copyright holder The series also welcomes newcomer Aya Cash to the cast in the second season, portraying the snarky, self-aware superhero Stormfront, who becomes the latest addition to The Seven.
Best known for her starring role in the dark-comedy series You’re The Worst , Cash flexes some new muscles in The Boys (literally and figuratively), but she’s at her best when the role makes use of her talent for snide humor and sharp dialogue.
Without diving into spoiler territory, her character brings a new dimension to the show that makes it feel fuller and more representative of the technology- and image-obsessed world we live in, and more timely in some unfortunate ways. To her credit, Cash handles her character’s arc in season 1 with the nuance and commitment it demands, and makes it clear why it was such a brilliant move to cast her in the role.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Powered down Sadly, as much as the show gets right about casting Cash into the role she plays, it falls short in its use of Breaking Bad actor Giancarlo Esposito.
The accomplished actor joins season 2 of The Boys as Stan Edgar, the CEO of Vought International, the multinational corporation directing the actions — and public image — of The Seven. Esposito’s talents and presence are woefully underused in the season, and despite plenty of opportunities to establish Edgar as a human character every bit as powerful as Homelander, he never transcends the predictable “evil CEO” archetype.
Outside of Homelander and Annie January (a.k.a. Starlight), the rest of The Seven are relegated to relatively inconsequential, supporting roles in the season, although Queen Maeve (Dominique McElligott) and The Deep (Chace Crawford) are at the center of some plot threads likely to pay off in future seasons. That’s particularly good news for McElligot’s Wonder Woman-like character, who has plenty of potential and a few good scenes peppered throughout the series, but feels underutilized overall.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Messaging rates The Boys flies highest when it’s leaning into its deconstruction of the superhero genre and capitalism run amuck, and that holds as true in the second season as it did in the first.
Kripke and the series’ writing team use The Boys as a way to hold modern society’s flaws up to a mirror, and the show’s dark satire has become a good vehicle for blowing up (or rather super-sizing?) real-world issues in a way that makes them too hard to ignore. The threat posed by corporate influence over global policy was a major theme of season 1, and the second season of The Boys continues to address that while also tackling the rise of white supremacy and xenophobia, LGBTQ and racial tokenism, and a long list of other issues.
The series’ approach to handling these complicated issues ranges from blunt, on-the-nose simplicity (in the case of creeping fascism) to significantly more nuanced messaging. It’s hard to argue with its ambition in this regard, but in practice, it occasionally feels like The Boys is spreading itself a little too thin and trying to put out a few too many fires.
Fortunately, the stumbles are few and far between in the show’s second season, which ups the ante considerably for its entire cast of characters and the world they inhabit. Season 2 of The Boys does a wonderful job of keeping its audience guessing right up until the season’s very last moments, but it also manages to deliver a sense of satisfaction at the story arc’s conclusion that the first season lacked.
As anyone who’s read the series’ source material can attest, The Boys is a special kind of superhero story. The first season of the series defied expectations in all the right ways, and season 2 proves that the show still has plenty of surprises to offer — as long as you don’t mind the mess.
Season 2 of The Boys premieres September 4 on Amazon Prime Video.
Editors' Recommendations Is The Nun 2 streaming? 3 Netflix action movies like Meg 2 you need to watch right now Tom Hiddleston slips through time in Loki season 2 trailer And Just Like That… season 2, episode 1 release date, time, channel, and plot Star Trek: Strange New Worlds season 2, episode 1 release date, time, channel, and plot Amazon Prime Video Entertainment “We’re all in this together.” That’s the overarching theme of Manifest. After being canceled by NBC, the supernatural drama was saved by Netflix to give it the ending it deserved. The first half of Manifest season 4 was released in December 2022. Fittingly, the final 10 episodes premiered on June 2, the "Death Date" on the show when the passengers of Flight 828 would finally realize their fate.
What was that fate? It was all revealed in the final episode. But first, the passengers had to go through a journey to get there.
Just trying to survive Entertainment Yellowjackets has been a hit for Showtime, and the series has now moved to Paramount+ following the latter’s announcement to integrate programming. The thriller drama, inspired by real-life events like Donner Party and the Andes flight disaster of 1972, has drawn comparisons to other shows and movies like Lord of the Flies and The Wilds. The story about a high school girls’ soccer team that gets stuck in the wilderness when their plane crashes is terrifying enough. But the gruesome, traumatizing journey they go on has fans talking, especially now that the second season has ended in a fiery, death-fueled blaze.
The story is told in two timelines, during the ‘90s in the wilderness and 30 years later. It’s evident that none of the surviving women has truly reconciled what happened to them and the horrendous things they did while stranded. Despite their efforts to move on, something, or some force, continues to bring them back.
The girls in the wilderness Entertainment "Now, we're finally at the end," Ben Stone (Once Upon a Time's Josh Dallas) tells the survivors of Flight 828 in the opening moments of the new Manifest trailer. The show is also reaching its conclusion as the final 10 episodes of Manifest season 4, part 2 will serve as the series finale.
"In the aftermath of Angelina (The Americans' Holly Taylor) unleashing a volcanic fissure, the passengers face severe scrutiny in a world fueled by 828er hate, no longer free to solve their own Callings without constant supervision by the unscrupulous 828 Registry," the official synopsis reads.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
