Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix F1 Live Stream Stranger Things Season 5 Best New Movies Most Popular Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney+ UFC Live Stream Best Movies on Disney+ Home Entertainment Reviews Yellowjackets season 2 review: a bolder and messier follow-up By Alex Welch Close Consistently strong performances from the show's core cast A handful of stunningly bold and brutal flashback scenes Several welcome additions to the show's cast, including Elijah Wood and Lauren Ambrose A languid, frustratingly slow pace throughout Too many filler storylines Not enough plot progression in the show's present-day timeline In its second season, Yellowjackets embraces all of its best and worst instincts. The acclaimed, Emmy-nominated Showtime series returns this week from a yearlong break with a sophomore season that is darker, scarier, bigger, and painfully slower than its first. Picking up from the series of reveals that brought its hit debut season to an end, Yellowjackets doesn’t get to answering its many remaining questions with any sense of earnestness this year, but with a patience that feels alternately measured and misguided.
As good as it was, Yellowjackets season 1 was far from perfect. It was about two episodes too long, which resulted in its pace slowing in the episodes immediately following its explosive premiere. In its second half, however, Yellowjackets season 1 managed to strike a near-perfect, brutally intense balance between its present-day, 2021-set timeline and its 1996 timeline, which follows the show’s adult characters as they struggle to survive a 19-month period spent stranded in the Canadian wilderness following a traumatic plane crash.
Yellowjackets season 2, unfortunately, struggles to strike as strong of a balance between the past and the present.
Tom Hiddleston slips through time in Loki season 2 trailer And Just Like That… season 2, episode 3 release date, time, channel, and plot Star Trek: Strange New Worlds season 2, episode 1 release date, time, channel, and plot The series’ second season pads out its present-day storylines with so much filler that it’s genuinely shocking how little progress the adult versions of characters like Taissa Turner (Tawny Cypress), Shauna Shipman (Melanie Lynskey), Misty Quigley (Christina Ricci), and Natalie Scatorccio (Juliette Lewis) make across the season’s first six episodes. If Yellowjackets ’ alluring, twin-timeline structure isn’t quite as effective as it was in its first season, though, the same cannot be said for the show’s shades of horror. As messy as it is, Yellowjackets season 2 is already shaping up to be a more violent, horrifying, and generally bolder season of television than the show’s first.
Kailey Schwerman/SHOWTIME Yellowjackets season 2 picks up with its characters exactly where the show’s season 1 finale left many of them. Lynskey’s Shauna is still struggling with her husband, Jeff (Warren Kole), to cover up her recent murder of her boyfriend, while Cypress’ Taissa is still failing spectacularly to address her increasingly destructive and violent sleepwalking spells. Elsewhere, Ricci’s Misty remains as desperate as ever to stay connected to her high school “friends,” while Lewis’ Natalie finds herself suddenly stranded in a wellness commune run by none other than her former teammate, the cult leader-esque Lottie Matthews (played as an adult by new cast member Simone Kessell).
Kessell isn’t the season’s only major new cast member ( Six Feet Under ’s Lauren Ambrose also makes her debut as the adult version of Vanessa “Van” Palmer, Taissa’s high school lover, who is played as a teenager by Liv Hewson). However, as played by Kessell and returning star Courtney Eaton, Lottie is very much the focus of Yellowjackets season 2, as the season’s spectacular opening montage, which is set to a pitch-perfect Sharon Van Etten jam, makes clear. Lottie’s kidnapping of Natalie at the end of Yellowjackets season 1 ultimately proves to be the key inciting incident of the show’s sophomore season, which takes its time putting Lottie’s new wellness center on its other characters’ radars.
In the past, Lottie’s seemingly supernatural gifts don’t do much to bring her fellow teammates closer together. Fulfilling the promise of its season 1 finale, Yellowjackets ’ new flashback scenes pick up with its central group of teenagers as they all struggle to make it through a frigid winter in the middle of nowhere with very little food and even less privacy. The divisions between the show’s superstitious Lottie supporters and its more practical characters have been made more pronounced by the harsh conditions of the season’s winter setting. In fact, the only thing all of Yellowjackets ’ teenagers have in common in the show’s second season is their shared hunger.
Kailey Schwerman/SHOWTIME That fact only brings Yellowjackets season 2 that much closer to fulfilling the brutal promise of its very first scene. The show, to its credit, doesn’t shy away from leaning further and further into the darkest corners of its story, either. The season’s first six episodes rarely match the constant intensity of Yellowjackets ’ debut run, but they are filled with moments that are genuinely shocking in their barbarity and tragedy. Some of the season’s uses of surreal fantasy don’t pay off as well as others, but the phantasmagoric nature of its second episode’s unforgettable climactic sequence also gives Yellowjackets the chance to reach a new peak of creative ingenuity.
The show’s all-star cast, meanwhile, returns in top form, though, Yellowjackets season 2 frequently struggles to give many of its returning stars the spotlights that they deserve. Of the show’s core adults, Lynskey and Cypress are given the most attention and neither ever let an opportunity to chew fully into the emotion or wry humor of a scene pass them by. That’s true even when Lynskey’s Shauna ends up trapped in a frustrating subplot involving Alex Wyndham’s small-town cop, Kevyn Tan, and when Cypress’ Taissa is forced to spend her time retreading emotional and narrative ground that was already explored in Yellowjackets ’ first season.
While Ricci continues to inject the show with a manic form of comedic energy that’s hard to top as well, she’s left mostly stranded in the early chapters of Yellowjackets ’ second season. Her oddball comedic chemistry with Elijah Wood, who shows up as a fellow member of the Citizen Detective board Misty spends most of her time on, helps make up for the fact that Misty does little-to-nothing of value throughout most of the first six episodes of Yellowjackets season 2. The same can’t be said for Lewis, however, who is pushed to the side for much of Yellowjackets season 2’s initial installments so that the series can make room for Kessell’s adult Lottie.
Kimberley French/SHOWTIME Kessell, for her part, conjures an even more compelling presence as Lottie than Eaton does as the teenage version of the character. Unfortunately, Yellowjackets season 2 is also deeply invested in maintaining so much secrecy about Lottie’s past actions and potential powers that the character frequently comes across more as a sketch than a fully-drawn figure. That proves to be a problem when many of the season’s later episodes end up revolving almost entirely around Lottie’s unexplained actions in both the past and the present.
Lauren Ambrose similarly brings a welcome new presence to Yellowjackets ’ ensemble as an adult version of Hewson’s Van, but the Showtime series takes far too long to get to her character’s (re)introduction. That’s ultimately the result of Taissa’s present-day storyline, which unfolds at such a snail’s pace that it takes four episodes for her to progress past where Yellowjackets ’ season 1 finale left her. The show’s flashback sequences, thankfully, avoid adopting the same languid pace as its present-day scenes. Many of Yellowjackets season 2’s early standout moments, consequently, center on the younger versions of its plane crash survivors.
Of Yellowjackets ’ “teenage” cast members, Jasmin Savoy Brown, Sophie Nélisse, and Hewson make the biggest emotional impressions in the series’ second season with their performances as the younger versions of Taissa, Shauna, and Van, respectively. While she, like Lewis, isn’t used nearly as much as she should be, either, Sophie Thatcher continues to bring a real humanity and sense of hard-edged warmth to her younger version of Natalie, who frequently finds herself pitted against Eaton’s Lottie this time around. Together, Thatcher and her fellow cast members help ensure that even Yellowjackets season 2’s darkest moments — of which there are many — are grounded in a nightmarish kind of emotional reality.
Ever since it began, Yellowjackets has never struggled in that regard, which makes its second season’s inability to match the work done by its cast all the more disappointing. Having only seen the season’s first six episodes, it’s impossible to say whether or not Yellowjackets season 2 can deliver a conclusion that makes the uneven, occasionally slothful pace of its early episodes feel worthwhile. As of now, though, while it seems inaccurate to deem Yellowjackets season 2 a sophomore slump, the show’s sting doesn’t feel nearly as powerful or precise as it did last year.
Yellowjackets season 2 premieres Friday, March 24 on Showtime. Digital Trends was given early access to the season’s first 6 episodes.
Editors' Recommendations 5 TV shows you need to watch in October Yep, Messi has made MLS Season Pass even more popular And Just Like That… season 2, episode 1 release date, time, channel, and plot Yellowjackets season 2 ending, explained Manifest season 4, part 2 trailer teases final episodes Product Reviews Streaming Services Entertainment Warning: this article contains major spoilers for the season 2 finale of Perry Mason.
It would be quite unlike HBO’s Perry Mason to wrap up its second season with a totally happy ending. It shouldn’t come as much of a surprise then that the season 2 finale of Perry Mason brings the show’s latest courtroom case to a bittersweet and emotionally complex conclusion.
What's going on in Perry Mason's season 2's finale? Entertainment Are you ready to believe again? One of TV's best comedies is set to return for one last time. That's right, everyone's favorite emotionally damaged yet aggressively optimistic soccer, sorry, football coach is back as Ted Lasso returns for its third season on Apple TV+.
The characters you love to love are all back: Ted, the sarcastic Roy Kent, regal Rebecca Welton, the practical Keeley Jones, the ever-reliable Coach Beard, the lovable Sam Obisanya … you name it, they are back. Nathan's back too, now poised as Ted's main nemesis after season two's stunning betrayal. Can Richmond finally win, well, anything? Or will Nathan and West Ham continue their winning streak? All the answers, plus more of Ted's buttery biscuits, await in season 3.
When does episode 2 of Ted Lasso season 3 release? Entertainment Following a hugely successful first season that surprised virtually everyone, many fans are eager for the potential return of Squid Game. In its first season, the show followed a group of contestants who competed against one another in a series of children's games that had deadly stakes.
Some of those playing the game would die, and the rest would move on to the next round. Ultimately, a single winner emerged who was rewarded with an insanely large cash prize. As many wonder about what season 2 could contain, here's what we know so far about the hit Netflix show's future: What will season 2 of Squid Game be about? Squid Game | Official Trailer | Netflix Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
