Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix F1 Live Stream Stranger Things Season 5 Best New Movies Most Popular Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney+ UFC Live Stream Best Movies on Disney+ Home Entertainment Guides The best David Tennant Doctor Who episodes By Matt Poskitt Close There’s nothing quite like Doctor Who.
 The sci-fi show about a face-changing alien that hops about the galaxy in a little blue box has enthralled viewers for six decades now. One of the most recognizable names to take up the Sonic Screwdriver during that period is David Tennant as the time-traveling Time Lord.
Tooth and Claw (season 2, episode 2) The Runaway Bride (2006 Christmas Special) Planet of the Ood (season 4, episode 3) Midnight (season 4, episode 10) The Stolen Earth/Journey’s End (season 4, episodes 12 and 13) The Day of the Doctor (50th Anniversary Special) The Waters of Mars (2009 Autumn Special) The End of Time (2009 Christmas Special/2010 New Year’s Special) Having finished his four-year run as the Tenth Doctor in 2010, Tennant is set to return as the Fourteenth Doctor in November 2023, alongside Catherine Tate’s beloved Donna Noble and Russell T Davies in the writer’s chair once more. Set to face off against Neil Patrick Harris as the Toymaker – a character who hasn’t appeared in the show since 1966 – it’s set to be an explosive and emotional reunion.
In the lead-up to the three-part Doctor Who 60th anniversary and the return of David Tennant, we’re taking the opportunity to discuss the best episodes from the Tenth Doctor’s era that are worth rewatching in time for the upcoming specials. These are listed in chronological order, so you know exactly where to jump in and where to end in preparation. Allons-y! The 50 best shows on Netflix in November 2023 6 best TV shows you need to watch in December 7 most underrated Breaking Bad episodes ever, ranked Tooth and Claw (season 2, episode 2) BBC While The Christmas Invasion marks the first appearance of the Tenth Doctor, he is tucked up in beds for large durations. Then on his second appearance, he’s possessed by the last ever human in New Earth – hence, this encounter with a werewolf and Queen Victoria in 1879 Scotland is the perfect substitute.
We all knew Tennant was a tremendous actor, having lit up the screen as Casanova (also written by Davies) before getting this part, yet it’s in Tooth and Claw that the actor really gets to flex his muscles. If it’s not appreciating the beauty of the half-man, half-wolf, it’s commanding the Queen’s guard about why “bullets won’t stop it.” There’s so much here to love, and it still holds up today.
The Runaway Bride (2006 Christmas Special) BBC Not only does the 2006 Christmas special serve as the first meeting between Donna and the Doctor, but it also shows the Time Lord at his lowest, having been forced to say goodbye to former companion Rose Tyler moments before.
From the first minute of Donna stomping about the TARDIS in a wedding dress to a chase down the A4232 with robotic Santas to an encounter with the terrifying Empress of the Racnoss to the Doctor making it snow, it has everything you need from an episode of Doctor Who.
 And Tennant shepherds it all, going from emotional highs to lows at the drop of a hat.
Planet of the Ood (season 4, episode 3) BBC Planet of the Ood cements Donna’s true realization that the wonders of the universe are not always what they’re cracked up to be. Exploring planet Ood-Sphere in 4126, the pair look to free its Ood inhabitants who are being sold off as slaves. It’s an underrated adventure that features a serious undertone that’s not afraid to put capitalism under the spotlight.
Tennant and Tate’s chemistry here is fantastic alongside some adrenaline-packed action on display – most notably, the scene where a giant crane chases the Tenth Doctor in a shipping warehouse while Donna gets shoved in a container filled with lots of possessed Ood.
Midnight (season 4, episode 10) BBC No monster in sight, the Doctor finds himself onboard a small, claustrophobic shuttle that is designed to visit a waterfall made of sapphires on the planet Midnight. Things get out of hand when the leisurely trip comes to a halt and suddenly trust between the humanoid passengers begins to break down.
We then get the masterclass performance from Tennant as he deals with each individual passenger before slowly being possessed by some sort of hidden entity. It’s brilliantly penned, and even more impressive when you find out that Davies wrote the script over the course of a weekend.
The Stolen Earth/Journey’s End (season 4, episodes 12 and 13) BBC If any story is a celebration of modern Doctor Who it’s the Season 4 two-part finale. Bringing back all of the companions from the Tenth Doctor’s era to take on the Daleks in stupendous fashion still remains a highlight 15 years on.
Considering the consequences of these episodes – namely, Donna’s memory wipe – it’s fair to say that several plot threads will be integral to upcoming anniversary specials. It’s also just worth it to witness the David Tennant rain GIF in full swing.
The Day of the Doctor (50th Anniversary Special) BBC Okay, so technically this isn’t a David Tennant story as the 50th-anniversary special is led by Matt Smith’s 11th incarnation of the Doctor, yet it’s still a wonderful treat to see the two share the same screen. Throw in John Hurt as the “War Doctor” and we get three amazing actors trying to outdo each other at every turn.
Tennant holds his own incredibly well playing up “the man who regrets” philosophy that embodied large parts of the character’s tenure, proving that whenever called upon, the man can deliver.
The Waters of Mars (2009 Autumn Special) BBC What’s great about The Waters of Mars is how far the Tenth Doctor needs to be pushed before he breaks the laws of time. Arriving on humanity’s first colony on Mars in the year 2059, the Galifreyan battles an intelligent virus known as the Flood that takes over the explorer’s bodies one by one, alongside grappling with the destruction of the base that becomes a fixed point in time.
It’s eerie, dark, and very frightening as water streams out the monster’s cracked lips. Without a companion, this 60-minute special from 2009 represents the consequences of why the Doctor doesn’t travel alone better than most.
The End of Time (2009 Christmas Special/2010 New Year’s Special) BBC The swansong for Tennant has everything: action, comedy, scares, twists, heartbreak, and a showstopper performance from the Scot. Doing his best to avoid death, the Doctor’s psychotic archenemy, The Master, returns to take over the planet Earth with major consequences that push one another to the brink.
It’s a spectacle of a two-parter, but at the heart of it is the Tenth Doctor and Wilfred Mott (Donna’s grandad played by the wonderful Bernard Cribbins). The somber conversations between the old soldier and the 906-year-old Time Lord are what makes this episode so special. We can’t wait to see them both onscreen together in the 60th for the final time.
The Doctor Who 2023 60th Anniversary Specials will air in the UK and Ireland in November 2023 before coming to Disney Plus in the U.S.
Editors' Recommendations The 10 best characters in the Hunger Games movies, ranked Hundreds of classic Doctor Who episodes are now streaming on Tubi for free 7 best sci-fi movie actors Upload season 3’s ending, explained 3 underrated 1980s sci-fi TV shows you should watch in November Entertainment With its arrival on Netflix almost a decade after the book became a sensation, All the Light We Cannot See is set to reach an even bigger audience than it already had. If you've already caught the show, though, you might be looking for other meaty historical dramas that are worth your time.
The series, which tells the story of World War II from two distinct perspectives, is fairly unusual, but that doesn't mean there aren't plenty of movies and TV shows that are likely to give you the same feeling.
A Hidden Life (2019) A HIDDEN LIFE | Official Trailer [HD] | FOX Searchlight Entertainment Although it's been over for several years, Peaky Blinders was one of the defining hits for Netflix while it was on the air. The show, set in the aftermath of World War I, follows the Peaky Blinders, one of the most powerful gangs in London. The show is a gangster drama in the best sense, filled with meaty conversations, plenty of propulsive plot, and a great lead performance by Oppenheimer's Cillian Murphy.
Over the course of six seasons, Peaky Blinders had a number of standout episodes, but these were the ones that stood out most. These are the seven best episodes from Peaky Blinders' 36-episode run.
7. Mr. Jones (season 5, episode 6) Entertainment Like many other streamers this month, Max had a larger focus on horror than it did on sci-fi. But the good news for anyone who loves the best sci-fi movies is that two of director Denis Villeneuve's films, Dune and Blade Runner 2049, are back on Max after a few months away.
The only other noteworthy addition in October is Upgrade, a Blumhouse-produced sci-fi revenge thriller that has more in common with the John Wick movies than the title indicates. The rest of Max's lineup reflects the strength of Warner Bros. Pictures' vast cinema library, which includes a lot of the greatest science fiction movies ever made. That makes it really easy to narrow the choices down to the best sci-fi movies on Max. These are the films that will let your imagination soar.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
