Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix F1 Live Stream Stranger Things Season 5 Best New Movies Most Popular Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney+ UFC Live Stream Best Movies on Disney+ Home Entertainment Guides Everything we know about Loki season 2 By Joe Allen Close After a blockbuster first season that seemed to be a pivotal chapter in the next phase of Marvel storytelling, we’ve had to wait a long two years for the second season of Loki.
 Now that Sylvie has killed “He Who Remains” and opened the world up to his many variants, season 2 seems like it’s going to be filled with even more time-travel shenanigans than the first installment.
What is Loki season 2 going to be about? Is there a trailer for Loki season 2? What is the release date for Loki season 2? Who is in the cast for Loki season 2? While we’ve already gotten a tease for what season 2 of Loki could contain in post-credits scenes at the end of Ant-Man and the Wasp: Quantumania , there’s still plenty that fans don’t know about what the second season will involve. Here’s everything we know about Loki season 2? What is Loki season 2 going to be about? Image used with permission by copyright holder The exact details of the plot around Loki ‘s second season are being kept under lock and key, and understandably so. We do know, however, that the second season will be focused on the multiverse in a major way. That makes sense considering where season 1 ended and given the knowledge that the intervening years have only made the concept more common inside the MCU. Several actors have given interviews hinting at where their characters could go, but the most substantive clue came from head writer Michael Waldron. When discussing Ravonna Renslayer, the TVA stooge who leaves in search of free will at the end of the first season, Waldron said : “She wants to [find] who pulled the wool over her eyes. That’s what she’s going to go out in search of. She is a scary customer to be out there in the Multiverse. So we’ll see what happens.” Squid Game: The Challenge: Release date, channel, trailer, and everything we know so far Want to know why the MCU stinks lately? We’ll tell you 10 facts you didn’t know about Tim Burton’s unmade third Batman film The other big hint about Loki season 2 came after the credits rolled in Quantumania.
 In that movie, we were introduced to Kang the Conqueror after meeting He Who Remains at the end of Loki season 1.
The real reveal comes with those two post-credits teasers, though, the first of which introduces us to the Council of Kangs, which seems determined to stop the Avengers from encroaching on the multiverse. The second post-credits scene is even juicier, as it features Loki and Mobius attending a demonstration from Victor Timely. Loki seems terrified during the scene, but Mobius doesn’t seem to get it. What’s clear, though, is that the two of them are tracking Kang variants across time.
“In creating the show in the first place, the only way it’s worth doing to me is that we can find a new story to tell with this character,” Waldron added during an interview with Deadline’s Hero Nation podcast.
 “It felt like we had new emotional ground to cover with Loki. That’s the only way into season 2. We absolutely found that. It’s a great continuation of that story that feels different from season 1 and hopefully will subvert expectations.” Is there a trailer for Loki season 2? Image used with permission by copyright holder At the moment, there’s no trailer for the second season of Loki , and it’s unclear when we might get our first look at the new season. We do know that filming for the series wrapped in October 2022 at Pinewood Studios in London, so it seems like a trailer could come at any time.
What is the release date for Loki season 2? Image used with permission by copyright holder The second season of Loki is set to premiere on October 6, 2023. That’s almost a full year after the season finished filming, which makes sense when you consider how many visual effects will likely be needed to make the series ready for prime time. The exact format of the release is unclear, but it seems likely that the show will use a weekly model similar to the one employed by the first season.
Who is in the cast for Loki season 2? Image used with permission by copyright holder All of the regular players from the first season of Loki are likely to make their returns in season 2. That includes Tom Hiddleston as Loki himself, as well as Sophia Di Martino as the Loki variant Sylvie. We’re also likely to see Owen Wilson’s Mobius some more, and we already know that Gugu Mbatha-Raw’s Ravonna will be returning for this second season. Wunmi Mosaku is also back as Hunter B-15, as are Tara Strong as the voice of Miss Minutes and Eugene Cordero as lovable TVA staffer Casey/Hunter K-5E. There have also been rumors that Richard E. Grant will also reportedly make another appearance as the comic book-inspired “Classic Loki.” Jonathan Majors is also likely to show up in some capacity as the many variants of Kang. Although Majors’ future in the MCU is uncertain given the allegations that have been made against him , the second season of Loki was filmed before those allegations came to light. As a result, Marvel is unlikely to change the season significantly, so we may seen many variants of Kang over the course of the season. If that’s truly what Loki season 2 is about, then Kang could be a major factor.
We’ll also get a few new cast members in the second season, including Ke Huy Quan, Rafael Casal, and Kate Dickie. Of the three, the only one we know anything about is Quan, who will be playing an archivist at the TVA.
Editors' Recommendations Marvel’s What If…? season 2 trailer teases multiverse adventure Hulu with Live TV Free Trial: Everything you need to know First look at Quantum Leap season 2 episode 3 as Ben Song meets a mysterious woman Elon Musk vs. Mark Zuckerberg fight: Everything you need to know 10 cool things to know about Ben Affleck’s canceled Batman movie Entertainment Despite launching in November of 2019, Disney Plus has become a leading stalwart in the streaming service space. Boasting one of the best libraries of movies and TV shows around -- including some of the best original series from the likes of the MCU and Star Wars franchises -- Disney+ has shot up to 129.8 million subscribers worldwide as of February 2022. That puts it toe to toe with the likes of Netflix, Apple TV+, Amazon Prime Video, HBO Max, and others.
Despite a library that isn't quite as large as Netflix, Disney+ makes up for it in quality. It's the exclusive streaming platform for a significant portion of Disney's massive content archive and the only place to see new originals like Andor, Obi-wan Kenobi, The Mandalorian, Hawkeye, and WandaVision. Plus, with content from National Geographic and deals that can also net you Hulu and ESPN+ for one price, Disney+ is a formidable service.
Entertainment Tom Hiddleston is being pulled through time in the season 2 trailer for Marvel Studios’ Loki, and if what he witnessed was true, "There is nothing that stands between this world and utter destruction." Hiddleston returns for season 2 as Loki, the god of mischief recruited to work for the Time Variance Authority (TVA) to monitor and fix the timeline. In the season 1 finale, the timeline was thrown into complete disarray after Sylvie (Sophia Di Martino) stabs He Who Remains (Jonathan Majors), leading to the creation of the multiverse.
Entertainment The release of Christopher Nolan's Oppenheimer is near, and it's one of the most highly anticipated blockbusters of 2023. This sprawling biopic tells the story of J. Robert Oppenheimer as he and his team of scientists race against the clock to build the atomic bomb that would help the Allied forces win World War II.
Audiences know they will never be the same after watching this, so to help them prepare for this cinematic experience, here's a list of the top 10 facts about Oppenheimer.
Nolan shot this film with IMAX and Panavision cameras Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
