Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix F1 Live Stream Stranger Things Season 5 Best New Movies Most Popular Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney+ UFC Live Stream Best Movies on Disney+ Home Entertainment News Indy faces his destiny in new Indiana Jones 5 trailer By Blair Marnell Close In Raiders of the Lost Ark , Harrison Ford’s Indiana Jones famously said “It’s not the years, honey, it’s the mileage,” when referring to the wear and tear on his body. That was over four decades ago, and there’s been a considerable amount of “mileage” since then. This is one of the reasons why Indiana Jones and the Dial of Destiny will be Ford’s final time in the role. And if the final trailer is any indication, it might be Indy’s last adventure as well.
Somewhat against his will, Indy will be drawn into the story by Helena Shaw (Phoebe Waller-Bridge). Helena isn’t Indy’s actual child, but she is his goddaughter, and she’s inherited his knack for getting into trouble and running afoul of Nazi schemes. In this case, their mutual enemy is a former Nazi named Jürgen Voller (Mads Mikkelsen). Voller’s brilliant mind has allowed him to elude justice by working with NASA on the Apollo moon launch. However, Voller’s agenda goes far beyond that.
Image used with permission by copyright holder There are still a lot of questions about what the Dial of Destiny is, and what it can do. But it’s enough that Indy and Helena have to join forces to prevent Voller’s agenda from threatening everything they hold dear.
Antonio Banderas also appears in the film as Indy’s friend, Renaldo, with Shaunette Renée Wilson as Mason, Thomas Kretschmann as Colonel Weber, Toby Jones as Basil, and Boyd Holbrook as Klaber. So far, the only other confirmed cast member from the previous Indiana Jones films is John Rhys-Davies, who will reprise his role as Sallah for the first time since 1989’s Indiana Jones and the Last Crusade.
Dial of Destiny proves that the Indiana Jones franchise should end now Indiana Jones and the perils of sequelizing Steven Spielberg The 5 best scenes in the Indiana Jones franchise, ranked James Mangold directed the film and co-write the script with Jez Butterworth, John-Henry Butterworth, and David Koepp.
Indiana Jones and the Dial of Destiny will hit theaters on Friday, June 30.
Editors' Recommendations 7 most disappointing 2023 movies so far 5 actors who should be the next Indiana Jones Harrison Ford’s 7 best movies, ranked by Rotten Tomatoes score All the Indiana Jones movies, ranked from worst to best Is Indiana Jones and the Dial of Destiny streaming? Action Tech News Entertainment It's 2023, and Harrison Ford is 80 years old. Action stars from the 1980s -- Ford, Arnold Schwarzenegger, Sylvester Stallone -- can now collect Social Security benefits, so it wouldn't be a surprise if they stopped performing death-defying stunts onscreen and enjoyed their well-earned retirement.
Ford, however, has other ideas, as he's starring in Indiana Jones and the Dial of Destiny, his fifth go-around as the beloved fedora-wearing adventurer. Nothing last forever, however, and with Ford publicly commenting that Destiny is the last time he will play one of his most famous characters, many fans have been left asking this: does Indiana Jones die at the end of Indiana Jones and the Dial of Destiny? So, does Indiana Jones die at the end of Indiana Jones and the Dial of Destiny? Entertainment Warning: This article contains major spoilers for Indiana Jones and the Dial of Destiny (2023).
Indiana Jones (Harrison Ford) has never felt more like a man out of time than he does in his latest (and likely final) big-screen adventure, Indiana Jones and the Dial of Destiny. When the new film begins, Indy finds himself celebrating his retirement on the exact same day that the rest of New York City is holding a parade for the Apollo 11 astronauts. Indy’s disinterest in the historical achievements happening around him (in one memorable moment, he compares going to the moon to going to a desolate desert town like Reno) only makes his own sense of historical displacement all the more palpable. Everyone else may be looking forward, but he’s still stuck looking back.
Entertainment Few actors have given more to popular culture than Harrison Ford. Over the course of his decades in Hollywood, Ford has starred in everything from high-minded prestige movies to some of the most well-known blockbusters in the history of movies. In that career, Harrison has given us two different all-time great blockbuster characters.
First, he was Han Solo in the Star Wars films, and then, a few years later, he introduced us to Indiana Jones. Both franchises have had long legacies that extended all the way into the present, but the question of which character is Ford's greatest role is still hotly debated. Thankfully, we've come up with a foolproof way to arrive at an answer.
Which character is more central to the franchise? Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
