Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix F1 Live Stream Stranger Things Season 5 Best New Movies Most Popular Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney+ UFC Live Stream Best Movies on Disney+ Home Entertainment Reviews Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Obi-Wan Kenobi review: A superior Star Wars tale By Guillermo Kurten Close A fairly tired trope that Lucasfilm has been using for years now is filling the gaps in and around the prequel and original Star Wars trilogies. That being said, aside from a new trilogy set beyond Return of the Jedi , an Ewan McGregor-led Obi-Wan Kenobi project has still arguably been the most in-demand Star Wars project for over a decade. The prequels may have been a mostly rocky endeavor, but if nothing else, Revenge of the Sith stuck the landing and proved to be a suitably grandiose Shakespearean-like tragedy that fits the “sci-fi space opera” subgenre that the franchise coined.
Dire straits A unique kind of threat Silver linings In the first two episodes reviewed by Digital Trends, Lucasfilm and Disney+’s Obi-Wan Kenobi limited series begins with a somber, melancholic look at the Star Wars universe struggling in a post-Order 66 galaxy, showing fans the last iteration of McGregor’s revered Jedi Master, who deserves one final hurrah. With a new kind of threat forced upon him and a charming supporting character that is sure to please die-hard fans, Obi-Wan Kenobi is a triumphant return of a beloved character thanks to a compelling story and outstanding performances from the cast.
Note: The rest of this story contains spoilers for the first two episodes of Lucasfilm’s Obi-Wan Kenobi.
Thor: Love and Thunder, Obi-Wan doc to debut on Disney+ Day Obi-Wan Kenobi’s past and present collide in new trailer Obi-Wan series on Disney+ boasts a new John Williams theme Dire straits Image used with permission by copyright holder The galaxy is in one of the worst states it’s ever been, with the opening moments of the first episode showing a well-choreographed fight scene featuring a Jedi Master fending off clone troopers from her younglings.
A decade later, we see a weary and half-defeated Obi-Wan Kenobi in exile and still blaming himself for failing his former protégé by not preventing him from crossing over to the Dark Side. Ever since the concept of Ewan McGregor portraying a tired and battle-hardened Obi-Wan was revealed years ago, most fans had a good idea of what he would look and act like. It’s safe to say, after two episodes in, that McGregor hasn’t missed a beat since his days in the Clone Wars and he lifts that perfect vision of the franchise icon out of the collective fan consciousness.
The way these episodes, namely Part I , are written and directed also feel somewhat reminiscent of James Mangold’s noir rendition of Wolverine in the exceptional Logan : A prominent hero that was once part of a group of “knights in shining armor” that upheld a noble cause is now reduced to being a battered recluse, hunted and on the run. But even with such a bleak setting and premise, the heartwarming shades of the heroic father/brother figure from 10 years ago bleed through — as Obi-Wan’s good nature should.
It’s another testament to how seamless McGregor’s acting abilities fit into this character and further cement — as sacrilegious as it might sound to some veteran fans — his iteration as the definitive Obi-Wan Kenobi, while also connecting the dots between his and Alec Guinness’ sage version first seen in A New Hope.
 Something that was also great to see touched on was the character’s PTSD, as he’s haunted by the past and his perceived failure in raising Anakin Skywalker.
These episodes suggest that director Deborah Chow and writer Joby Harold could be making good on their promise of making this a story that explores the emotional depths of its titular character at a darker point in his life, balanced with an unmistakably Star Wars and Kenobi brand of faithful resilience.
A unique kind of threat Image used with permission by copyright holder Since most of the general audience knows where the story will ultimately pan out, it was always going to take some convincing to make the stakes of Obi-Wan Kenobi feel real.
 In Anakin’s own words, Obi-Wan has the wisdom of Grand Master Yoda and the strength of Mace Windu, so there aren’t many that match him in skill.
This story was always going to need to give him some sort of believable handicap to make the tension sincere, and the first two episodes waste no time in making the presence of the Inquisitorius felt.
 Rupert Friend does a great job at conveying the Grand Inquisitor’s ominous and imposing sense of danger, but particular praise goes to Moses Ingram’s take on the original character Reva, aka the Third Sister.
Ingram portrays this new villain with such barely estricted aggression that it becomes a thrill watching her throw her weight around a room. None of these villains — save a certain black-armor-clad, one-man army — would pose a threat to someone like Kenobi under normal circumstances, but the combination of being restricted in his use of the Force and his lightsaber with Reva’s cunning and ruthlessness makes the perfect cocktail for a central conflict.
The Inquisitors are a great looming threat, but using Reva as a wild card from within this pack of Jedi hunters could be a great way to carry the conflict forward until the inevitable “rematch of the century” rolls around.
The only thing that might come into question — unless somehow shown otherwise — is whether having the Grand Inquisitor killed off this early will pay off in the long run. Having Reva take the spotlight from within the Inquisitors and even killing the leader is on-brand for these villains, but seeing the internal strife between the two play out a bit longer before bubbling into a coup might have been a better angle.
Comic book fans will know that the Grand Inquisitor is still alive (sort of), but it’s unclear how much the show will pay attention to that, if at all.
Silver linings Image used with permission by copyright holder Aside from just wanting as much content as soon as possible, the two-episode premiere looks like a good call, as Part I feels like a fittingly slower-paced introduction while Part II ramped up the adventurous pacing. Most excitingly, perhaps, is the fact that the second episode finally takes audiences past the dunes of Tatooine. For such a vast galaxy, it feels like too much of Lucasfilm’s toybox ends up being Tatooine or some variation of it.
The set design and cinematography do well to highlight the neon nightlife of the Hong Kong-like Daiyu. Likewise, it made for an excellent backdrop for a “hunter-versus-hunted” episode. But aside from the thrills, the addition of young Princess Leia as an extra dose of personality was refreshing.
Actress Vivian Lyra Blair puts on a fantastic portrayal that feels like a perfect representation of what Carrie Fisher originally brought to the screen in the original trilogy. She captures that same wit and determination that’s been the essence of the legacy character, and seeing her dynamic with Obi-Wan was a treat. It’s a relationship that’s felt sorely missed given her importance to the Skywalker Saga, and it also provides welcome context and more emotional weight for A New Hope.
It’s an overall strong start for Obi-Wan Kenobi , showing that the remaining four episodes could have the legs to give the titular Jedi Master a well-earned victory lap.
Obi-Wan Kenobi ‘s first two episodes are now streaming. The remaining four will air weekly, with the series finale arriving June 22.
Editors' Recommendations Andor review: Rogue One prequel is slow-burn Star Wars Star Trek: Strange New Worlds review: Old school is new again Disney+ debuts the first trailer for Obi-Wan Kenobi Obi-Wan Kenobi Star Wars series will debut on Disney+ in May Disney+ embraces the Dark Side in Lego Star Wars Terrifying Tales trailer Sci-Fi Star Wars Entertainment The eagerly anticipated Obi-Wan Kenobi series has hit rocky ground, with backers Disney+ and Lucasfilm at a very late stage ditching the only two scripts that have so far been written for the show, The Hollywood Reporter (THR) claimed on Thursday, January 23.
Citing “multiple sources” with knowledge of the matter, THR said the series, starring Ewan McGregor in a reprise of his Star Wars prequels role, has been “put on hold” as the companies search for a new writer to replace Hossein Amini, who previously penned the Ryan Gosling thriller Drive and also received an Oscar nomination for The Wings of the Dove.
Entertainment November has been a great month for movies at Netflix, with the premiere of David Fincher's The Killer, and recent box office hits like Insidious: The Red Door and Spider-Man: Across the Spider-Verse. This week, the new additions include The Impossible, a 2012 survival thriller that has already landed on the list of the 10 most popular movies on Netflix. For younger viewers, Minions is also heating up the charts despite the pending departure of the other films in the franchise at the end of the month.
There's only one holiday weekend left in November, so what's the best way to stay on top of everything new on Netflix? Why, we are, of course. Our list of the best movies on Netflix right now is updated every Friday, even on holiday weekends, so you can easily find something for every movie lover in your life.
Entertainment Summer is long over, and the fall season is in full swing. It's now late 2023, and just about everyone is subscribed to Netflix and Hulu. But would you be surprised if I told you one of the most underrated streaming services around is Tubi? The upstart streamer has tons of new and old TV shows from every decade and every genre imaginable. Want to watch the buzziest series that aired on Max? Tubi has it. Are you feeling nostalgic about that old movie or cartoon you used to watch as a kid in the '80s or '90s? Chances are, Tubi has it.
Tubi has so much content that it can be hard to choose which shows and films are worth your time. Digital Trends is here to help you sort out which ones are worth watching. Even though the streaming service is free, time is valuable, and no one wants to waste it watching subpar content.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
