Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix F1 Live Stream Stranger Things Season 5 Best New Movies Most Popular Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney+ UFC Live Stream Best Movies on Disney+ Home Entertainment Why The Book of Boba Fett is even better than The Mandalorian so far By Luke Larsen Close I’ll be the first to admit that I wasn’t eagerly anticipating The Book of Boba Fett.
 New Star Wars is new Star Wars, but I didn’t stay up to watch it at midnight, nor did I rush out to read reviews or interviews.
Two narratives, one story A peek at the future In fact, media attention has been quiet on the series so far due to the holiday launch and the lack of advance press screeners.
But with The Book of Boba Fett approaching the halfway mark of season 1, I’m already enjoying it even more than The Mandalorian – and it just might act as a preview of Star Wars shows of the future.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Two narratives, one story The Book of Boba Fett looks and feels a lot like The Mandalorian on the surface. It has shared characters, a focus on a lone gunman, and it builds on similar themes of self-identifying within rigid codes of honor. It certainly exists within the same Favreau-verse. That much is obvious. It’s even produced using the immersive visual-effects system known as “The Volume ,” giving the show a familiar visual feel.
All the things we want to see in The Mandalorian season 4 All The Mandalorian episodes ranked from worst to best The Mandalorian season 3 finale gives the Star Wars series a much-needed reset But The Book of Boba Fett deviates from The Mando in narrative structure, which is key.
The Mandalorian ’s first season, in particular, was built around an episodic, monster-of-the-week cadence. Each week, it was a new planet and a new adventure, with not much of a narrative thread to weave all the pieces together. It ended up being a great way to start small and remain flexible with the storytelling.
But it felt overly rigid, both for a Star Wars series and for modern television storytelling in general. Animated shows like Star Wars: The Clone Wars and Star Wars Rebels have gone the episodic route, but for Star Wars’ first venture into a live action series, it was notably old school.
Image used with permission by copyright holder The Book of Boba Fett takes an entirely different approach. The show’s framing is instead split between two stories, one in the past and one in the present. But it’s the way these two narratives are tied together that makes it compelling.
Boba Fett’s rise from his sandy grave in the past and his current attempts to rise through the underworld play off each other beautifully. That was most notable in Episode 2, where we witnessed two stories involving paying tribute for territories and struggles to gain respect in a foreign land.
Lessons learned in one arc find new context in the other, and the themes that arise prove that this is far more than just series creator Jon Favreau playing with his childhood action figures. (Not that there would be anything wrong with that.) We’re getting to watch Boba Fett’s leadership style and code of honor refined, and as it turns out, there’s more depth and nuance to the mysterious character than I assumed there could be. It makes for a show that feels far more modern in its construction. But more importantly, it’s a really good sign for the future of Star Wars television.
The Book of Boba Fett (2021) tv-14 1 Season Sci-Fi & Fantasy, Action & Adventure Temuera Morrison, Ming-Na Wen Jon Favreau watch on Disney+ watch on Disney+ A peek at the future The Mandalorian will eventually continue in Season 3, and I’ll happily watch along. The show was the first out of the gate for Star Wars television, and a lot was riding on its success. Fortunately, its widespread acceptance by fans and critics has led to it becoming a vehicle for launching other series, specifically in Season 2. The return of Boba Fett, Ahsoka, and even Luke Skywalker himself has opened up possibilities. (Still waiting on a dedicated Luke Skywalker series, but we’ll see.) But I have a feeling the future of Star Wars television will look more like The Book of Boba Fett than The Mandalorian.
 That is, a singular narrative with fewer episodes and that fills in a connective thread of the larger narrative. A more focused scope certainly fits the bill of upcoming shows like Ahsoka and Obi-Wan Kenobi — both of which have fans like myself buzzing with anticipation.
Both of these character-based shows, like The Book of Boba Fett , will highlight a previously untold window of time in a popular character’s story. Interestingly, like Boba Fett, these are characters that also just happen to be ones that span multiple trilogies within the Star Wars timeline.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Could we see more flashbacks and connective tissue in these shows? You bet. Lessons from past entries in the character’s life that play out in new ways? Absolutely. Seeing how a character like Obi-Wan could function in this type of series – with so many decades of storytelling as the context – sounds thrilling.
We’ll have to wait and see how the final episodes in the Boba Fett saga play out. Will it set up the events of The Mandalorian season 3 ? Will it put a definitive end to the character? All that is up in the air. But so far, it’s a show that has me more and more excited for the future of Star Wars television.
Disney’s The Book of Boba Fett can be seen on Disney+ streaming service.
Editors' Recommendations Star Trek vs. Star Wars: which one is better in 2023? Spotify celebrates Star Wars Day with soundtracks and audio books The Mandalorian season 3 episodes, ranked from worst to best 5 questions we have after The Mandalorian season 3 episode 7 What the hell happened to The Mandalorian? Features Sci-Fi Star Wars The Mandalorian Movie images and data from: Entertainment Most of episode 6 of The Mandalorian season 3 is dedicated to a side quest. The episode, titled Guns for Hire, sends Bo-Katan Kryze (Katee Sackhoff), Din Djarin (Pedro Pascal), and Grogu to the opulent planet of Plazir-15, where they hope to convince Bo-Katan’s former Mandalorian followers to rejoin their cause to retake Mandalore. Before they can do so, however, they have to perform a task for the planet’s leaders, a former Imperial officer named Captain Bombardier (Jack Black) and his wife, The Duchess (Lizzo).
As its guest stars suggest, Guns for Hire is a surprisingly silly installment of The Mandalorian. However, that doesn’t mean it didn’t leave us asking a few important questions.
Are there more Mandalorian privateers? Entertainment The Mandalorian has returned this week with its third season’s most action-packed installment to date. The series’ latest episode, titled The Pirate, fulfills one of the promises of its season 3 premiere by bringing back Pirate King Gorian Shard (Nonso Anozie), who launches an all-out assault on Nevarro that he promises won’t cease until its High Magistrate leader, Greef Karga (Carl Weathers), surrenders. Greef, in response, tries to secure aid from the New Republic, but to no avail.
Fortunately, Din Djarin (Pedro Pascal), Bo-Katan (Katee Sackhoff), and the rest of their Mandalorian covertly come to Nevarro’s rescue by wiping out Shard and almost his entire pirate crew. The Pirate doesn’t kill off Shard without setting up another villain’s potential role in The Mandalorian season 3, though. The episode packs in a number of shocking moments and late-season developments between its numerous action beats.
Entertainment In episode 4 of The Mandalorian season 3, titled The Foundling, Din Djarin (Pedro Pascal) and Bo-Katan (Katee Sackhoff) lead a mission to save a kidnapped Mandalorian child, and Grogu flashes back to the night that changed his life forever. The latter sequence answers a question that Star Wars fans have been asking ever since Grogu was introduced at the end of The Mandalorian’s series premiere.
In other words, even though The Foundling only runs a little over 30 minutes long, the episode still manages to pack quite a lot into its fairly limited runtime. Now, heading into next week’s episode of The Mandalorian, here are five questions we have after The Foundling.
When will Grogu be able to speak? Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
