Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Gaming Reviews Cyberpunk 2077 post-patch review: A car crash of a game you can’t turn away from By Tom Caswell Close $59.99 Facial animations Night City's design Fun combat Individual characters Interesting side quests Littered with bugs Undercooked role-playing elements Problematic depictions of identity Poor performance on console Editor’s Note: Due to the issues with Cyberpunk 2077 ‘s launch, the Digital Trends staff decided to withhold our final review of the game until after the game’s Day 1 patch was released. The following review is based on the patched version of the game. Please note that the experience greatly differs on Xbox One and PlayStation 4 and we do not recommend purchasing the game on those platforms at the moment.
Night City is jaw-dropping … on PC Less The Witcher 3, more GTA V Corpo through and through Our take One of the sidequests in Cyberpunk 2077 paired me up with a character for an easy job that paid well. Further jobs with that character solidified our bond. I was no longer invested in the missions for the money and street cred — I was in it for the relationship.
Image used with permission by copyright holder The revelation that they had been using me all along for nefarious purposes hit me like a ton of bricks, despite the fact that it wasn’t me. It was V, the avatar that my adventures in Night City were being experienced through. I hadn’t realized how invested and immersed by Cyberpunk 2077 I had been until this moment. Never in an RPG had I experienced this kind of feeling: That I felt like this was a real person that had manipulated me into carrying out their revenge plot.
Cyberpunk 2077: How to start Phantom Liberty DLC How to make money fast in Cyberpunk 2077 Cyberpunk 2077 resurges with 1 million daily players this week I decided to refocus my attention on the mainline story, in order to get my mind off of the personal betrayal I was just dealt. I had to meet up with a fixer, a mercenary who organizes different jobs, at a bar. As I arrived, I remembered the character that had been using me moonlighted as the bartender at this establishment. I was hoping it’d be their night off.
Image used with permission by copyright holder But they were there, and it was if the entirety of our adventures never even occurred. No dialogue options to discuss it, no awkwardness to our interaction. It was almost as if this person was a completely different character than the one I’d spent all those hours with. As if their identity as a bartender was a separate non-player character (NPC).
Never in an RPG had I experienced this kind of feeling.
All I could do was laugh. This was just another instance of Cyberpunk 2077 being Cyberpunk 2077.
 It’s a game that, like a work of art, is immaculately designed and thought-out, but must not be touched lest you ruin it. It’s something that you are in awe of one moment, and detest the next.
Night City is jaw-dropping … on PC I have now played Cyberpunk 2077 on a variety of platforms, including a desktop PC that is running the game at ultra settings, Xbox Series X , Stadia, and GeForce Now. And it’s my informed opinion that if you are planning on playing the game on console, you simply shouldn’t right now.
Even on Xbox Series X, where the game is markedly more stable than on last-generation consoles, it’s a disappointment compared to the next-gen visual delights afforded by games that are optimized for the system. Wait and see what the next-gen patch brings early next year— don’t taint the experience now.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Surprisingly, streaming is a much better way of playing the game, either via Google Stadia of GeForce Now. Stadia is a more pleasant app to interact with than Nvidia’s offering, and if you sign up for a Pro membership to unlock 4K , it provides you with a $10-off coupon to spend on the game.
GeForce Now, a subscription to which is cheaper, offers a marked visual improvement over Stadia, and even supports ray tracing , something that consistently crashed my expensive PC rig due to some bug. According to CD Projekt Red’s own technical requirements, it should support it just fine, but that’s not the case. GeForce Now also has the added advantage of connecting to a PC’s games library, so unlike Stadia, it won’t require a separate purchase or save when playing on a computer.
For those who have the internet connection for it, streaming is currently the best place to play Cyberpunk 2077 outside of an expensive PC.
For anyone with an expensive PC, however, Cyberpunk can be a glorious experience. The design of Night City, a metropolis that stretches along the Pacific Coast, feels unlike any other open world location I’ve experienced. It’s not only vertically impressive, with its brutal skyscrapers, but horizontally, with crisscrossing highways, bridges, and walkways that help the city feel like a beautiful, chaotic mess.
Image used with permission by copyright holder The facial animations also dazzle, which is often not the case with other open world titles. The reason I got so caught up in the aforementioned side quest was because of how much emotion was being expressed through the character model. It’s a key element to world building that the game nails.
Playing on PC, where I’ve spent the majority of time with the game, is a stable experience for the most part. There are certainly some silly bugs, and as I mentioned, I had to disable ray tracing to prevent it from crashing. But if you can tweak your rig to the optimal settings, it’s generally solid. The problems with Cyberpunk 2077 , however, run much deeper than its glitches.
Less The Witcher 3 , more GTA V There are three lifepaths in Cyberpunk 2077 : Nomad, street kid, and corpo. Choosing one will start you off in a different part of Night City, with a different background and agenda. Your biggest confidant in the game, Jackie Welles, is either one of your closest friends, or a complete stranger at this time.
If you have an expensive PC, Cyberpunk can be a glorious experience.
It’s initially impressive if you start multiple games with the different lifepaths, but in less than an hour, Cyberpunk quickly resolves those differences, and essentially resets every player’s character to the same status. From there on, aside from a handful of dialogue options, your chosen lifepath adds little to the gameplay experience.
This is one of the biggest signs that the game fails as an RPG, which extends to all the other systems in the game. Cybernetic upgrades don’t feel necessary to the gameplay, as only a few key ones are actual useful, along with your arsenal of weapons, which have no trouble mowing down your adversaries. When I get skill points, I’m honestly more annoyed that I have to figure out what to spend them on than I am excited to enhance my avatar, V.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Crafting is something that I’ve done once just to do it. Most items require key components that are hard to find or expensive to buy, and when you are able to craft or upgrade an item, it feels like it has little effect on the gameplay. With the amount of weapons to find, and objects to pick up, this game could have forgone crafting altogether.
Ammunition and health packs are abundant. I never drop below having well over 100 medkits at a time. As long as I keep cover close, I’m essentially invincible, even on the game’s hardest difficulties.
One of the key elements in the marketing for Cyberpunk was the interesting and flashy styles you could outfit your character with. Unfortunately, armor is tied to clothing, with no way to keep your look while using the defense buffs of another item. More often than not, your character looks like they just jumped into a thrift store dumpster and left with whatever clung to their body. It’s a good thing the game is in first person then.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Ultimately, the RPG elements are the weakest parts of the game.
Cyberpunk is best enjoyed via world exploration, light stealth, and going heavy on the guns, while ignoring the majority of the role-playing aspects. They just bog the game down, and I wished that it simply leaned more into being a futuristic Grand Theft Auto title and that development time had been spent mastering a few key gameplay elements than being cluttered by a bunch of mediocre ones.
Also, I’m begging all you NPCs. Stop calling me every waking moment with a new job and vehicles to sell me. I can find all of them on my own.
Corpo through and through For a game that’s called Cyberpunk , there’s a ton of cyber, and very little punk. It’s weird to play this title in a year that has gone a long way to bring movements like “Defund the Police” to the forefront.
It would be different if the game had something interesting to say about the police. But there’s none of that in the game. The only thing it has to say is “not every cop’s a bastard.” Ultimately, the RPG elements are the weakest parts of the game.
The number of times I am asked to assist the police is also ridiculous. My character is a violent, law-breaking mercenary. Why would a pillar of the side quests be to help the NCPD? Image used with permission by copyright holder This thin and misrepresentative ethos extends to a lot of the game’s world building. I find individual characters to be great, and I was surprised at how, despite a few ill-conceived depictions of general identities, a majority of the independent personas are well executed. Some side quests with these characters, and the relationships you form with them, are wonderful. Others are baffling, mundane, and feel generically scripted, taking you out of an otherwise engrossing world.
All of these elements just remind you that Cyberpunk 2077 , while worked upon by passionate developers, is the product of a corporate machine. One that wanted to make as much money as possible off of it and refused to give it the actual development time it required in order to launch during the holiday season.
That leaned into a toxic community to build a fan base.
 That deceived its audience by hiding the console version of the game before its release. That refuses to say anything of value about the themes it presents to the player.
So while I’ve enjoyed my time in the moment-to-moment of the game for the most part, and will continue to do so, my experience is deeply marred by the external elements of the game and its developer, which consistently seep through in the design and writing.
Our take Cyberpunk 2077 is a dazzling experience buried deep under layers of problematic waste in terms of gameplay, writing, and its politics both inside of it and outside in the real world. It’s a shame that this game doesn’t live up to its full potential.
Is there a better alternative? Grand Theft Auto V does a lot of what Cyberpunk does best, and has had the years of refinement that Cyberpunk is in dire need of.
How long will it last? Mainlining the story will take you around 30 hours, with hundreds of hours of side quests and activities if you wish.
Should you buy it? Not right now. Unless you have a top-of-the-line PC or wish to start investing in the emergent cloud-streaming offerings. Otherwise, wait for further patches and next-gen updates on consoles.
Editors' Recommendations Cyberpunk 2077: Phantom Liberty Relic guide Cyberpunk 2077 cheat codes: money, weapons, and more A new Witcher trilogy and Cyberpunk game are in development at CD Projekt Red Cyberpunk 2077 support bleeds into 2023 with story expansion Cyberpunk 2077 developer halting all game sales in Russia Game Reviews Product Reviews Gaming In a lengthy stream detailing a suite of improvements coming to Cyberpunk 2077, developer CD Projekt Red announced that the game's current-gen update is available today.
Cyberpunk 2077 — Next-Gen Gameplay | PlayStation 5 Gaming Cyberpunk 2077 developer CD Projekt Red quietly announced today that the game wouldn't be receiving anymore updates, or anymore of its long-promised free DLC, until next year. The announcement comes just a week after the company announced that next-gen versions of Cyberpunk 2077 and The Witcher 3: Wild Hunt were also delayed to 2022.
The announcement was made through a subtle change to a news post on the game's website. The header image for the post previously listed other updates for the game, as well as its free DLC, as arriving later this year. However, both have now been tacked on to the latter part of the image, showing that they're scheduled to arrive in the first quarter of 2022, along with Cyberpunk 2077's free next-gen update.
Gaming In another twist for the Cyberpunk 2077 saga, CD Projekt Red delivered bad news concerning the current-gen port of that game, as well as The Witcher 3: Wild Hunt. The Xbox Series X/S and PlayStation 5 releases of both titles are being delayed from their initial "late 2021" release to 2022.
In September, CD Projekt Red reassured fans that the upgraded current-gen releases of The Witcher 3: Wild Hunt and Cyberpunk 2077 were still on track to release this holiday season. The new press release says the company based the decision to push this planned release back on "recommendations supplied by persons supervising development." Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
