Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix F1 Live Stream Stranger Things Season 5 Best New Movies Most Popular Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney+ UFC Live Stream Best Movies on Disney+ Home Entertainment Guides Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? 10 most likable characters from Schitt’s Creek By Anthony Orlando Close Schitt’s Creek is a sitcom filled with many quirky characters, ranging from flashy celebutantes to oddball mayors. While much of the cast, specifically the Rose family, didn’t start out as the most likable characters, audiences saw many of them grow into much more compassionate and relatable people as the series progressed.
10. Moira Rose 9. Ronnie Lee 8. David Rose 7. Alexis Rose 6. Stevie Budd 5. Johnny Rose 4. Jocelyn Schitt 3. Ted Mullens 2. Patrick Brewer 1. Twyla Sands Many of Schitt’s Creek inhabitants may still have qualities that make them hard to hang out with at first, but audiences couldn’t help but love these characters as they learn to live together in their quiet, little town.
10. Moira Rose Image used with permission by copyright holder This egotistical and dramatic thespian treats every moment of her life like a scene straight out of her soap opera. Moira goes out of her way to be the center of attention wherever she goes with her outlandish outfits, theatrical antics, and variegated lexicon.
She also tends to mope around and hide in her closet whenever she faces misfortune in her new life, especially after her film The Crows Have Eyes 3 was shelved. Even so, as the series went on, there were moments when she showed greater care toward her husband, her kids, and her friends, making her Schitt’s Creek’s No. 1 diva.
9. Ronnie Lee Image used with permission by copyright holder Ronnie is a no-nonsense woman who frequently snarks at the Roses for their ridiculous and self-centered antics, and audiences can’t help but laugh at her blunt one-liners. Some people might be put off by her aloofness and her rivalry with Patrick, but there have been times when she displayed a soft spot toward her peers.
She helped Bob get back into dating after his divorce, and she even cried when Moira said goodbye to the town, showing that she does consider her a friend. All in all, Ronnie’s the kind of woman one would like to have when they’re at work, or they need someone to tell it how it is.
8. David Rose Image used with permission by copyright holder For better or worse, David Rose is one of the most notable characters in Schitt’s Creek.
 He is overly anxious and highly critical about almost everything, disregarding how his words could hurt others. While he comes across as mean and inconsiderate, his behavior sprouts from his lonely and fearful childhood and has shown there is a lot of good beneath the surface.
He learns to open up to others, eventually becoming close to his best friend, Stevie, and his true love, Patrick. And with their help, he opens Rose Apothecary and picks up the pieces of his shattered life.
7. Alexis Rose Steve Wilkie / Pop TV Alexis came into the series as a stereotypically selfish and spoiled rich girl. She always went off on ludicrous but dangerous adventures around the world, which left her family worried about her. She tried to abandon her family in Schitt’s Creek the minute they arrived, and she neglected her boyfriend, Ted, and left him for Mutt.
But later in the series, Alexis started to reinvent herself by finishing high school, attending college, and starting her own PR business. She also grew closer to her family and rediscovered her love for Ted, seeing the error of her ways and becoming a much more well-rounded person.
6. Stevie Budd Image used with permission by copyright holder This motel clerk relates to the Roses in that she hates living in her town as much as they do. Though rude and cynical, she and David become unlikely friends in the show and start spending their days goofing off together. But when she becomes overwhelmed with taking ownership of the motel, she is forced to step up and take more initiative in her life.
Combined with her stellar Cabaret performance in season 5, she overcomes her fears and develops more confidence in herself, transforming into a successful and more optimistic human being.
5. Johnny Rose Image used with permission by copyright holder Throughout the show, Johnny Rose serves as the leading voice of reason that tries to keep his family together. However, like his wife and kids, he has had his share of moral foibles, most notably neglecting to raise David and Alexis in favor of running his business, Rose Video.
At first, he takes pride in his successful past as a CEO, and he acts like he’s better than Schitt’s Creek. But as the show progressed, he became much more humble and welcoming of his new home, eventually becoming the co-owner of the town motel alongside Stevie.
4. Jocelyn Schitt Image used with permission by copyright holder Though she is married to Roland Schitt, First Lady Jocelyn is one of the most grounded citizens of Schitt’s Creek. She offered a friendly hand to Moira when she moved into town and even welcomed her into her group of gal pals, the Jazzagals.
But after Jocelyn had her second child, her stress boiled to the surface, and she started to release her anger over her hectic life, but she did it in the most polite way possible. One has to respect her for being able to put up with so much Schitt’s Creek for so long, but she also deserves respect for standing up for herself and being her own person.
3. Ted Mullens Image used with permission by copyright holder Ted briefly dated Alexis in Season 1, and while she wasn’t interested in him at first, he stuck around even after they broke up. Though he was insecure and suspicious about Alexis and Mutt’s relationship in season 1, his separation from her forced him to make a change, coming back to Schitt’s Creek much more confident and mature.
Even so, he’s still the same kindhearted vet who treats people and animals right and makes corny dad puns. And even after Alexis broke his heart, he continued to support her during their time together, proving that he was the right man for Alexis.
2. Patrick Brewer Image used with permission by copyright holder This sarcastic businessman charmed his way into everyone’s hearts the moment he entered David’s life. He fit right in with the Rose family, despite being the straight man in their strange world. But that isn’t to say he doesn’t have his flaws. He neglected to tell David about his prior engagement to his ex-girlfriend, Rachel, and that his parents didn’t know he was gay.
But this only made him more relatable to both David and the audience, and neither of them gave up on him. He provided the hope and down-to-earth thinking David desperately needed, and he became the perfect partner for him in both work and life.
1. Twyla Sands Image used with permission by copyright holder Whether she’s simply kindhearted or blissfully ignorant, Twyla has long been the ray of sunshine that brightened Schitt’s Creek whenever she appeared. Twyla is often seen working at the Café Tropical or singing with the Jazzagals, and she’s always there to help the Roses or just listen whenever they have troubles.
However, she often recounts multiple instances of her horrifying upbringing to those around her. But despite her depressing life stories, Twyla maintains a positive attitude throughout the series, making her the most lovable character in the entire show.
Stream all six seasons of Schitt’s Creek on Hulu.
Editors' Recommendations The 10 most likable Big Bang Theory characters, ranked Hulu Streaming Services Entertainment November has been a great month for movies at Netflix, with the premiere of David Fincher's The Killer, and recent box office hits like Insidious: The Red Door and Spider-Man: Across the Spider-Verse. This week, the new additions include The Impossible, a 2012 survival thriller that has already landed on the list of the 10 most popular movies on Netflix. For younger viewers, Minions is also heating up the charts despite the pending departure of the other films in the franchise at the end of the month.
There's only one holiday weekend left in November, so what's the best way to stay on top of everything new on Netflix? Why, we are, of course. Our list of the best movies on Netflix right now is updated every Friday, even on holiday weekends, so you can easily find something for every movie lover in your life.
Entertainment Summer is long over, and the fall season is in full swing. It's now late 2023, and just about everyone is subscribed to Netflix and Hulu. But would you be surprised if I told you one of the most underrated streaming services around is Tubi? The upstart streamer has tons of new and old TV shows from every decade and every genre imaginable. Want to watch the buzziest series that aired on Max? Tubi has it. Are you feeling nostalgic about that old movie or cartoon you used to watch as a kid in the '80s or '90s? Chances are, Tubi has it.
Tubi has so much content that it can be hard to choose which shows and films are worth your time. Digital Trends is here to help you sort out which ones are worth watching. Even though the streaming service is free, time is valuable, and no one wants to waste it watching subpar content.
Entertainment Rather than waiting for the Thanksgiving holiday weekend, Apple TV+ and Netflix dropped two of their biggest shows of the fall this week. Netflix's The Crown kicked off its sixth and final season with four new episodes, while the Apple TV+ Godzilla-adjacent series Monarch: Legacy of Monster, dropped its first two episodes this week, with new episodes arriving weekly thereafter. Also this week, Scott Pilgrim Takes Off hits Netflix, while Max gets in on the act this week by premiering the second season of Julia.
Netflix, Amazon Prime Video, Hulu, Max, Apple TV+, Disney+, Paramount+, and Peacock still have new shows coming for the rest of November, including a handful arriving next week. But if you've been thinking about cutting back on your streaming bill, then perhaps you should consider signing up for the ad-supported tiers. In the meantime, keep reading for our weekly roundup of the best new shows to stream.
When you're done here, check out the best new movies to stream this week, as well as the best shows on Netflix, best shows on Hulu, best shows on Amazon Prime Video, and best shows on Disney+.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
