Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix F1 Live Stream Stranger Things Season 5 Best New Movies Most Popular Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney+ UFC Live Stream Best Movies on Disney+ Home Entertainment Reviews Bad Sisters review: Blood is thicker than murder in Apple TV+’s smart comic thriller By Alex Welch Close Apple TV+’s dark comedy thriller Bad Sisters doesn’t shy away from showing all the ways that a toxic person can not only ruin other people’s lives, but do so without ever even breaking the law. The new series, which comes from co-creators Sharon Horgan, Dave Finkel, and Brett Baer, follows one truly despicable man (played with sneering confidence by Claes Bang) as he continuously poisons the lives of those around him and, in doing so, forces his four sisters-in-law to try to put an end to him.
Unfortunately for the show’s titular sisters, they can only think of one way to get rid of their abusive brother-in-law, and it is decidedly not within the confines of the law. For that reason, Bad Sisters will likely end up receiving comparisons to HBO’s Big Little Lies , which similarly focuses on a group of women who come together to cover up a man’s murder.
However, Bad Sisters sparkles with a sense of black humor and Irish wit that will not only be familiar to fans of Horgan’s work, but which also helps separate it from shows with similar plots. In fact, by rooting itself so firmly in the perspectives of its central Irish women, Bad Sisters is able to blend its unshakeable empathy and dark humor in a manner that makes it feel wholly unique.
Apple TV+, 2022 Inspired by the Flemish series Clan , Bad Sisters focuses on the Garvey sisters, Eva (Horgan), Grace (Anne-Marie Duff), Ursula (Eva Birthistle), Bibi (Sarah Greene), and Becka (Eve Hewson), who have been inextricably close to each other ever since the deaths of their parents. When the series begins, the five sisters have all assembled to attend the funeral of Grace’s husband, John Paul Williams (Bang). However, a small smirk from Horgan’s Eva in one early scene makes it clear that she and Grace’s other sisters are not losing any sleep over the death of their brother-in-law.
Instead, it becomes increasingly apparent that Eva, Ursula, Bibi, and Becka were not only rooting for John Paul’s death, but were actively trying to murder him prior to his demise. Once that fact has been established, Bad Sisters begins to explore both the months leading up to John Paul’s death and those that come after it. In the latter, the Garveys are forced to try to cover up the truth about John Paul’s death from Thomas (Brian Gleeson) and Matthew Claffin ( Good Luck to You, Leo Grande ‘s Daryl McCormack ), a pair of inquisitive insurance salesmen who have their own shady reasons for not wanting to hand out John Paul’s life insurance policy.
It’s the months leading up to John Paul’s death that Bad Sisters spends the most time exploring though, and it’s easy to see why. Not only do John Paul’s scenes in the show make it explicitly clear just how villainous he was, but Bad Sisters is also able to mine plenty of drama and tension out of the Garvey sisters’ numerous attempts to kill him. By placing such a heavy spotlight on the ways in which John Paul both harassed and abused his sisters-in-law, Bad Sisters also ensures that its viewers will inevitably become emotionally invested in Eva, Bibi, Ursula, Grace, and Becka’s lives.
Apple TV+, 2022 That said, in order to build support for the Garveys, Bad Sisters does have to invest a lot of time in both Bang’s John Paul and Gleeson’s Thomas Claffin, who might just be two of the most unlikable fictional men in recent TV history. In the case of Gleeson’s Thomas, while Bad Sisters does its best to humanize him as much as possible, his total disregard for the Garvey sisters’ lives makes it impossible to root for him whenever he’s onscreen.
But not even Gleeson’s Thomas is able to match the pure villainy of Bang’s character. Those familiar with Bang’s previous work — namely, his performances in films and TV shows like The Northman , The Square , and 2020’s Dracula limited series — probably won’t be surprised to hear that his John Paul ranks firmly as one of the best screen villains of the year so far. The actor’s indulgently smarmy, nonchalantly abusive performance in Bad Sisters is simply astonishing to behold. His performance is so effective, in fact, that it prevents the series’ pitch-black comic tone from ever feeling too cruel.
Bang, like everyone in Bad Sisters , feels perfectly cast in his role. Opposite him, Horgan continues to prove herself as one of Hollywood’s most talented multi-hyphenates, turning in a performance as Eva that’s both strong and vulnerable in equal measure. Meanwhile, even though Greene’s Bibi initially seems to be the most stoic of Bad Sisters ’ protagonists, the series’ later episodes break down her walls in ways that are alternatively touching and heartbreaking, and Greene’s performance only becomes more layered the further that the show gets into its first season.
Apple TV+, 2022 Despite running nearly 10 hours long, Bad Sisters manages to pack in enough twists, turns, and effective emotional beats to justify its first season’s considerable length. Consequently, while it never moves at a particularly fast pace, the series’ momentum never stalls for too long, and Horgan and company continuously finds new ways to spotlight the show’s cast members. Hewson and Duff, in particular, are given the chance to take on more active roles in Bad Sisters ‘ final episodes, and they both ultimately turn in performances that are as good as any that the series has to offer.
What’s most impressive about Bad Sisters , however, is the way it effortlessly bounces back and forth between moments of devastating heartbreak, comedy, romance, and tenderness. Like so many of Horgan’s previous TV efforts, the Apple TV+ original maintains a masterful tonal control from its first moment to its last. Even in its pitch-perfect opening scene, Bad Sisters succeeds at transitioning from a moment of total solemnity to a beat of tongue-in-cheek comedy that is best left unspoiled but might very well be one of the best visual jokes of the year.
Therefore, even though Bad Sisters doesn’t quite nail all of its narrative beats (its characterization of Bang’s character does sometimes veer too far into cartoonish villainy), it still emerges over the course of its first season as one of 2022’s most well-rounded new shows.
The first two episodes of Bad Sisters premiered Friday, August 19, on Apple TV+. Digital Trends was given access to all of the show’s 10 episodes.
Editors' Recommendations 8 best sci-fi video games to play if you liked Apple TV+’s hit show Silo Surface review: an unrewarding psychological thriller Under the Banner of Heaven review: A gripping crime thriller Apple Apple TV Entertainment November has been a great month for movies at Netflix, with the premiere of David Fincher's The Killer, and recent box office hits like Insidious: The Red Door and Spider-Man: Across the Spider-Verse. This week, the new additions include The Impossible, a 2012 survival thriller that has already landed on the list of the 10 most popular movies on Netflix. For younger viewers, Minions is also heating up the charts despite the pending departure of the other films in the franchise at the end of the month.
There's only one holiday weekend left in November, so what's the best way to stay on top of everything new on Netflix? Why, we are, of course. Our list of the best movies on Netflix right now is updated every Friday, even on holiday weekends, so you can easily find something for every movie lover in your life.
Entertainment Summer is long over, and the fall season is in full swing. It's now late 2023, and just about everyone is subscribed to Netflix and Hulu. But would you be surprised if I told you one of the most underrated streaming services around is Tubi? The upstart streamer has tons of new and old TV shows from every decade and every genre imaginable. Want to watch the buzziest series that aired on Max? Tubi has it. Are you feeling nostalgic about that old movie or cartoon you used to watch as a kid in the '80s or '90s? Chances are, Tubi has it.
Tubi has so much content that it can be hard to choose which shows and films are worth your time. Digital Trends is here to help you sort out which ones are worth watching. Even though the streaming service is free, time is valuable, and no one wants to waste it watching subpar content.
Entertainment Rather than waiting for the Thanksgiving holiday weekend, Apple TV+ and Netflix dropped two of their biggest shows of the fall this week. Netflix's The Crown kicked off its sixth and final season with four new episodes, while the Apple TV+ Godzilla-adjacent series Monarch: Legacy of Monster, dropped its first two episodes this week, with new episodes arriving weekly thereafter. Also this week, Scott Pilgrim Takes Off hits Netflix, while Max gets in on the act this week by premiering the second season of Julia.
Netflix, Amazon Prime Video, Hulu, Max, Apple TV+, Disney+, Paramount+, and Peacock still have new shows coming for the rest of November, including a handful arriving next week. But if you've been thinking about cutting back on your streaming bill, then perhaps you should consider signing up for the ad-supported tiers. In the meantime, keep reading for our weekly roundup of the best new shows to stream.
When you're done here, check out the best new movies to stream this week, as well as the best shows on Netflix, best shows on Hulu, best shows on Amazon Prime Video, and best shows on Disney+.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
