Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix F1 Live Stream Stranger Things Season 5 Best New Movies Most Popular Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney+ UFC Live Stream Best Movies on Disney+ Home Entertainment Guides 5 best Netflix true crime docuseries you need to watch By Christine Persaud Close Netflix became known as a source for captivating true crime series around the time the streaming service released Making a Murderer about a wrongfully convicted man who is released and then charged again for the murder of a young photographer. That story is anything but simple, rife with conspiracies, alleged lies, and fan campaigns. Then, during the pandemic, the timing was perfect for Tiger King to grace the small screen as yet another true crime gem. The bizarre series entertained viewers who were stuck at home with nothing else to watch.
Murdaugh Murders: A Southern Scandal (2023) Don’t F**k With Cats: Hunting an Internet Killer (2019) Conversations with a Killer: The Ted Bundy Tapes (2019) Crime Scene: The Vanishing at the Cecil Hotel (2021) Killer Inside: The Mind of Aaron Hernandez (2020) Overall, Netflix has been releasing a steady selection of true crime docuseries that are intriguing, jaw-dropping, and thought-provoking. These can be considered some of the best among the bunch.
Murdaugh Murders: A Southern Scandal (2023) Image used with permission by copyright holder The latest docuseries to be added to Netflix, Murdaugh Murder s follows the story of Alex Murdaugh and his wealthy and influential family from the Low Country region of South Carolina. It highlights everything from privilege to alleged corruption, familial discord, drug addiction, negligence, death, and murder. The story begins with a tragic boat accident that leaves one young woman dead and ends with Alex in court for the murder of his son and wife (for which he was recently convicted).
The 50 best movies on Netflix right now (November 2023) 5 best death game movies you should watch right now 6 best TV shows you need to watch in December The story to get from one to the other is full of twists, turns, and shocking revelations.
Murdaugh Murders: A Southern Scandal is a worthwhile watch even for those who have followed the story since the first accident garnered the family national attention in 2019.
Don’t F**k With Cats: Hunting an Internet Killer (2019) Image used with permission by copyright holder Even the most hard-stomached true crime fanatics will feel queasy after watching Don’t F**k With Cats: Hunting an Internet Killer.
 This one focuses on a different angle than others: a group of Internet sleuths set out to discover the identity of a troubling young man killing cats on videos posted to the dark web. The organizers had a sinking feeling that his gruesome actions would progress to humans and they were right. Canadian Luka Magnotta graphically killed and dismembered a young man and posted video of his heinous crimes on the Internet.
Don’t F**k With Cats is not for the faint of heart, so proceed with caution. But for those who are fascinated by the most troubled minds and by those who seek to do their own detective work from behind a computer screen, it’s an interesting watch.
Conversations with a Killer: The Ted Bundy Tapes (2019) Image used with permission by copyright holder Arguably no serial killer in history has been depicted in documentaries, TV shows, and movies as much as Ted Bundy, largely because of how unlike the stereotypical serial killer he seemed. It was Bundy, in fact, that alerted the public to the fact that serial killers aren’t always socially awkward. He was good-looking, charming, highly intelligent, and, of course, also a terrible human being who murdered and terrorized women through his many years long killing spree.
Conversations with a Killer: The Ted Bundy Tapes will appeal to those interested in the story of his life and capture. It includes both archival footage of Bundy himself as well as audio recordings of his interviews with Stephen Michaud while he was on death row.
Including harrowing interviews with his family members, former friends, surviving victims, police officers, and journalists as well, the series provides a new perspective on a case and killer that has been covered time and time again.
Crime Scene: The Vanishing at the Cecil Hotel (2021) Image used with permission by copyright holder At times, you might feel like you’re watching a horror movie.
 The footage of Elisa Lam, a young woman visiting the Cecil Hotel in Los Angeles, and her odd behavior in and by an elevator on the night of her death leaves you consistently guessing. It’s the twist reveal at the end, however, for those who aren’t familiar with the story, that will leave you feeling gutted.
If you’re into conspiracy theories and you’re not opposed to corny re-enactments, Crime Scene: The Vanishing at the Cecil Hotel is one of those docuseries that you can talk about with friends after watching and share your thoughts and feelings on the events that transpired.
Killer Inside: The Mind of Aaron Hernandez (2020) Image used with permission by copyright holder Killer Inside: The Mind of Aaron Hernandez will quickly suck you in after watching the first episode, even if you aren’t a fan of football and don’t know anything about the case or the former NFL player. Just three episodes long, the true crime series delves into not only the events that occurred leading to Hernandez’s arrest and conviction, but also his troubled childhood, mental health issues, potential secrets, and what happened in the aftermath of his tragic death.
It’s an emotional story that’s told from the perspective of those who knew Hernandez, those who were on the case, and journalists who covered the story.
Killer Inside: The Mind of Aaron Hernandez also provides interesting information about degenerative brain disease and its prevalence among and potential future impact on football players.
Editors' Recommendations 5 bad 2000s action movies that you still need to watch right now The 50 best shows on Netflix in November 2023 The best Black movies on Netflix right now The best stand-up comedy on Netflix right now 3 action movies on Netflix you need to watch in November Entertainment Sci-fi films never go out of style. From Alien and Back to the Future to Dune and Blade Runner, sci-fi films continue to improve thanks to new technology. Many sci-fi films find a home on Netflix and wind up on the streamer's 10 most popular movies list. Films like Don't Look Up, The Adam Project, and Bird Box are 10 of the most popular English films on Netflix ever.
The Adam Project is one of our picks for sci-fi movies to watch in November. Other selections include the epic sequel to Godzilla: King of the Monsters, and a sci-fi thriller about a pilot's fight for survival against the dinosaurs.
Godzilla vs. Kong (2021) Entertainment David Fincher's latest film, The Killer, is now streaming on Netflix, marking his first Fincher since 2020's black-and-white drama Mank. The Killer stars Michael Fassbender in a tense psychological thriller about a hitman who thrives on procedure. The man is solitary, cold, and methodical; no sense of regret or morality will stop him from his next target. The killer waits in the shadows and takes pride in being a professional. After a fateful near miss, though, he is forced to battle his employers — and himself — on an international manhunt.
The movie, described as a neo-noir action thriller, is a return to the dark, violent side of Fincher's filmography that has made many of his previous movies immensely memorable. If The Killer is your kind of movie, check out these five other movies similar to Fincher's latest.
Panic Room (2002) Entertainment Netflix is still king. Despite the increased competition from rival companies, Netflix remains the gold standard in streaming, with nearly 250 million subscribers. The most popular shows on Netflix include Stranger Things, Wednesday, and Squid Game. These shows dominate pop culture when a new season arrives on Netflix. However, plenty of good shows sneak under the radar and have developed passionate fanbases.
If you're looking for a new show in November, consider watching these three underrated gems on Netflix. Our selections include a cyberpunk crime thriller, a charming Christmas adventure, and a Western drama.
Altered Carbon (2018-2020) Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
