Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix F1 Live Stream Stranger Things Season 5 Best New Movies Most Popular Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney+ UFC Live Stream Best Movies on Disney+ Home Entertainment Features The sci-fi horror cult classic Cube is the brainy Saw film you need to see By Keith Langston Close 25 years ago, on September 9, 1997, Cube premiered at the Toronto International Film Festival.
 The movie centers on a small group of strangers who wake up trapped in a giant cube…connected to other cubes…making up one gigantic cube.
Adding to the tension is that some of the cubes are rigged with traps and only a mathematical formula derived from the room numbers can reveal which rooms are and aren’t safe. Sadism, mystery, claustrophobia, and paranoia combine, creating a surprisingly tense, scary, and smart movie.
A simple yet ingenious concept A likely inspiration for the Saw franchise A Cube multiverse The movie, known primarily to hardcore genre fans, is a masterwork of storytelling, creating the idea of a giant underground prison using only two small sets that were reused and repurposed over and over again throughout filming. The true terror of Cube comes from its idea – being trapped, perhaps senselessly, and feeling the imminence of death. It’s a film that holds up a quarter of a century after its release, and deserves to be seen by a wider audience.
A simple yet ingenious concept Cube Libre The film’s central mystery is simple yet compelling: why does the cube exist? At one point, one of the characters, David Worth, reveals to the group that he was actually contracted to build the cube’s outer shell, though he has no idea how he ended up trapped inside. Naturally, the group wants to know what the cube is and why it exists.
Worth gives an utterly underwhelming response, saying, “There is no conspiracy. No one is in charge. It’s a headless blunder operating under the illusion of a master plan…there is no point, that’s the point.” 5 things we want to see in Eli Roth’s Thanksgiving horror movie That answer, however, doesn’t seem to add up with the rest of the film. The prisoners, for example, seem too-perfectly hand chosen to be mere coincidence. There’s Holloway, the doctor; Kazan, an autistic man with savant syndrome who (how convenient) is great at math; Worth, the designer of the Cube’s shell; Wren, a notorious escape artist; Quentin McNeil, a police officer; and Joan Leaven, a mathematics student.
Now, if you’re going to be stuck inside a giant booby trap-filled cube, desperately trying to survive and escape…this group seems a bit *too* perfect to be random. At one point, Holloway also reveals that she has knowledge of McNeil and his abusive past, further alluding to the fact that this group was hand-chosen.
The dichotomy of the movie both telling viewers it’s all pointless, while also very clearly showing that it’s all connected, creates a strange vibe where viewers can’t tell if they’re simply too stupid to understand the brilliance of Cube ’s message, or if the filmmakers were just too stupid to realize their own contradictions. In all honesty, though, this endless questioning helps keep the movie fun and interesting.
A likely inspiration for the Saw franchise Produced on a budget of just $365,000 CAD, Cube went on to gross just short of $9 million at the global box office, becoming a runaway indie success that also had a profitable lifespan in the rental and home video markets.
There are also many who say the film is a precursor (at least spiritually) to Saw.
 A group of supposed strangers wake up in a giant, gritty torture device, and are given a strange and subversive way to escape. Sound familiar? Image courtesy of Twisted Pictures In fact, there’s even a striking similarity between Cube and Saw II.
In Cube , one of the characters, Quentin McNeil, becomes unhinged from the stress, fear, and isolation of the cube. He begins turning on the others, attempting to gain control. He’s willing to hurt others, leave people behind, and he even kills Holloway after discovering she knows about his dark past. To Quentin, if someone couldn’t be used to escape, they were worthless and better off dead.
For anyone who has seen Saw II, this probably sounds oddly similar to the character of Xavier, who decides to violently turn against the others, hoping to get the numbers tattooed on their necks in order to escape all by himself.
While there’s no concrete proof of a connection between the two franchises, their similarities can’t be ignored. James Wan, Saw’ s director, has never come out and said Cube was an inspiration, but it’s highly probable he’s seen the movie because of its importance and popularity within the horror and sci-fi fandoms.
A Cube multiverse image courtesy of Ghost Logic and Lionsgate Films In fact, throughout the years, Cube has spawned both a sequel and a prequel. In 2002, Cube 2: Hypercube was released. Whereas the ‘97 film was gritty, grounded, and grungy-looking, Hypercube was bright, white, and leaned more heavily into the sci-fi genre, revealing that this new cube is actually a tesseract with time and space operating differently in each room. Reviews were not as good as the first, with many commenting that the sequel came off feeling low-budget, although it did have some shining moments with the more outlandish room traps.
In 2004, Cube Zero revealed what happened before the events of the first movie, and instead of taking place solely inside the cube, it alternated between the captives inside and the men in the control room spying on their every move.
Image courtesy of Mad Circus Films and Lionsgate Entertainment Once again, the film received mixed reviews, with critics saying it muddled the mystery of the original by trying (perhaps too hard) to explain the purpose of the cube. Religion, politics, and wealthy sadists are referenced as reasons, and instead of better explaining the cube, it just raises more questions, further confusing audiences and making the cube even more mysterious.
And yet, that does seem to be what Cube is about. It’s about not knowing what’s right and wrong, what’s real and what isn’t, and most importantly, it’s about preying upon audiences’ sense of paranoia and fear, leaving them to ask…what’s the purpose? What’s the point of all this pain and suffering? And most importantly, is there a point? The franchise is also far from dead. In 2021 a Japanese remake was released, and earlier this year, it was reported by Bloody Disgusting that Lionsgate is currently looking through pitch ideas for an American reboot as well. It will be interesting to see what kind of story the new movie will tell and whether it will lean more into horror or sci-fi, realism or absurdism, and if it might (finally) give us a reason as to why the cube exists.
Editors' Recommendations 7 obscure sci-fi movies from the 1980s you need to watch The best A24 horror films, ranked by Rotten Tomatoes Features Entertainment November has been a great month for movies at Netflix, with the premiere of David Fincher's The Killer, and recent box office hits like Insidious: The Red Door and Spider-Man: Across the Spider-Verse. This week, the new additions include The Impossible, a 2012 survival thriller that has already landed on the list of the 10 most popular movies on Netflix. For younger viewers, Minions is also heating up the charts despite the pending departure of the other films in the franchise at the end of the month.
There's only one holiday weekend left in November, so what's the best way to stay on top of everything new on Netflix? Why, we are, of course. Our list of the best movies on Netflix right now is updated every Friday, even on holiday weekends, so you can easily find something for every movie lover in your life.
Entertainment Summer is long over, and the fall season is in full swing. It's now late 2023, and just about everyone is subscribed to Netflix and Hulu. But would you be surprised if I told you one of the most underrated streaming services around is Tubi? The upstart streamer has tons of new and old TV shows from every decade and every genre imaginable. Want to watch the buzziest series that aired on Max? Tubi has it. Are you feeling nostalgic about that old movie or cartoon you used to watch as a kid in the '80s or '90s? Chances are, Tubi has it.
Tubi has so much content that it can be hard to choose which shows and films are worth your time. Digital Trends is here to help you sort out which ones are worth watching. Even though the streaming service is free, time is valuable, and no one wants to waste it watching subpar content.
Entertainment Rather than waiting for the Thanksgiving holiday weekend, Apple TV+ and Netflix dropped two of their biggest shows of the fall this week. Netflix's The Crown kicked off its sixth and final season with four new episodes, while the Apple TV+ Godzilla-adjacent series Monarch: Legacy of Monster, dropped its first two episodes this week, with new episodes arriving weekly thereafter. Also this week, Scott Pilgrim Takes Off hits Netflix, while Max gets in on the act this week by premiering the second season of Julia.
Netflix, Amazon Prime Video, Hulu, Max, Apple TV+, Disney+, Paramount+, and Peacock still have new shows coming for the rest of November, including a handful arriving next week. But if you've been thinking about cutting back on your streaming bill, then perhaps you should consider signing up for the ad-supported tiers. In the meantime, keep reading for our weekly roundup of the best new shows to stream.
When you're done here, check out the best new movies to stream this week, as well as the best shows on Netflix, best shows on Hulu, best shows on Amazon Prime Video, and best shows on Disney+.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
