Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Netflix Original Movies Best Comedies on Netflix Best Netflix Original Series Best Anime on Netflix Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Fantasy Movies on Netflix Home Entertainment Guides Everything we know so far about Arcane season 2 By Anthony Orlando Close Audiences are hyped to see Netflix’s animated masterpiece Arcane continue where it left off with its second season. Based on Riot Games’ ever-popular video game, League of Legends , this award-winning streaming series became a surprise hit when it first premiered, appealing to fans of the classic game and newcomers to the franchise.
When does Arcane season 2 release? Development stages Where does it take place? What’s the story? The main players And after season 1’s shocking cliffhanger ending, fans just can’t wait for more episodes to drop on Netflix. But as everyone is forced to be patient, in the meantime, they can at least read everything that is clear about Arcane season 2 so far.
When does Arcane season 2 release? Image used with permission by copyright holder The first season of Arcane was announced in 2019 before premiering on Netflix in November 2021, which is when season 2 got the green light. Despite the fact that season 1 took six years to make, Riot Games CEO Nicolo Laurent did promise everyone on Twitter that it wouldn’t take as long to make the second season.
Everything we know about Loki season 2 Stranger Things season 5: Everything we know so far Everything we know so far about Ghostbusters: Afterlife It’s safe to assume this now-popular animated show will debut at least sometime this year. Even so, the amount of hard work that goes into animating such a show makes it more likely that the second season with air in 2024.
Development stages Image used with permission by copyright holder It isn’t easy to pinpoint exactly how far season 2 is toward its completion, but there is plenty of evidence that seems to prove it is almost finished. For instance, co-showrunner Christian Linke announced on Reddit that the second season’s scripts were completed back in November 2022.
And in February of this year, Linke went to Twitter to request some suggestions for music artists whose songs could be used for the show, suggesting that the studio has nearly wrapped up editing.
Where does it take place? Image used with permission by copyright holder Season 1 took place in the neighboring cities of Piltover and Zaun. While Piltover is a bright and prosperous utopia, Zaun lies beneath this “City of Progress” in a state of perpetual darkness and poverty. The Zaunites’ oppression at the hands of their wealthy neighbors has caused both cities to be embroiled in a terrible and hateful conflict that reached its apex in the season 1 finale.
Since the majority of the series has taken place in these two cities, it seems unlikely that season 2 will step outside these territories. Nevertheless, League of Legends is renowned for its worldbuilding, as the realm of Runeterra is vast and filled with many different civilizations. Therefore, it is possible that audiences can catch a glimpse of the settlements beyond the limits of Piltover and Zaun.
What’s the story? Image used with permission by copyright holder While Arcane depicts the battle between Piltover and Zaun, in actuality, the series revolves around the strained relationship between siblings Vi and Jinx, who have each grown up to fight on opposite sides of this conflict. And after killing her paternal figure Silco, Jinx has accepted that she is not the person she was as a child and that she has grown too far apart from his sister, Vi.
Thus, the season 1 finale ends with Jinx renouncing his identity as Powder and firing a Hextech missile at the Piltover council just as they voted to give Zaun its independence. Such an ironic twist of fate could very well ignite the war between these two cities that has been brewing for so long. It may even intensify the conflict between the two once-close siblings to the point that they become bitter enemies akin to Rhaenyra and Alicent in House of the Dragon.
The main players Image used with permission by copyright holder There aren’t many details about who will appear in the second season, but because many of the characters are at the site targeted by Jinx’s rocket, including Jayce, Viktor, and Mel, it’s anyone’s guess who will survive. Likewise, if the leaders of Piltover and Zaun don’t survive this attack, chances are that audiences will see some new characters take their place.
However, showrunners Christian Linke and Alex Yee revealed that three new Champions would be introduced in the new season. Since Piltover and Zaun will likely go to war, it would make sense for their leaders to bring in fighters to support them in their conflict. Amongst these new Champions is the Lady of Clockwork, Orianna, whose entire body is made of clockwork that’s powered by Hextech, and the Howler, Warwick, who was seen in Singed’s lab in the season 1 finale. In addition, the wind spirit Janna will appear in some capacity, likely to aid the people of Zaun as their guardian deity.
While Vander and Silco bit the dust in season 1, they will reportedly return in flashbacks to when they were still friends, and the latter will be shown when he was raising Jinx long before his death. Fans have also come to believe Vander was revived as the mutant beast Warwick following his demise, which could make for a frightening reunion for Vi and Jinx. Since the games had a wide variety of Champions, it wouldn’t be a surprise if the show brought many more of them into the war between Piltover and Zaun.
Editors' Recommendations Squid Game: The Challenge: Release date, channel, trailer, and everything we know so far Deadpool 3: Everything we know so far about the MCU’s latest franchise Squid Game season 2: Everything we know so far Everything we know so far about Doctor Strange in the Multiverse of Madness Indiana Jones 5: Everything we know about the movie so far Netflix PC Gaming Streaming Services Entertainment Dune Official Trailer Frank Herbert's Dune is one of the most popular and influential science-fiction novels ever published, and Oscar-nominated Blade Runner 2049 and Arrival director Denis Villeneuve is bringing it back to the big screen.
Entertainment Marvel Studios made the entire world shout "Wakanda Forever!" when Black Panther hit theaters in February 2018, kicking off a spectacular run that has made the film one of the highest-grossing movies of all time and the best-reviewed of any movie in Marvel's cinematic universe.
Of course, Disney is making a sequel. While Black Panther 2 missed Marvel's big Phase 4 reveal at Comic-Con International 2019, the film was confirmed at Disney's D23 convention a month later.
Entertainment Netflix has been having an amazing run thus far, with many of its original series receiving accolades, including Emmy nominations and wins. But not every series Netflix touches turns to gold.
While the streaming service does not typically release viewership numbers, it's safe to say that the series Netflix canceled this year did not pull in the numbers it had hoped. Or, in some cases, the shows simply ran their course. Nonetheless, some of the recently canceled series might be worth watching to decide for yourself.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
