Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Upcoming Nintendo Switch Games Connect Nintendo Switch to TV Free Nintendo Switch Games Cancel Nintendo Switch Online Best Nintendo Switch Games Charge Nintendo Switch Controller Nintendo Switch Accessories Nintendo Switch Controllers Nintendo Switch vs Switch Lite Home Gaming Guides The best Mario games of all time, ranked By Gabe Gurwin , Jon Bitner and Billy Givens Close Nintendo’s Super Mario series is so monumental to the medium of video games that you might even think of the mustachioed plumber when you hear “video games” mentioned at all. From his earliest days when he battled Donkey Kong as “Jumpman.” to his latest adventures on the Nintendo Switch , to his latest movie appearance in The Super Mario Bros. Movie , Mario has consistently been one of the greatest characters in video games. He’s such an iconic character that countless video games have had him as the star, and here we have ranked them.
For our list, we had two main criteria. First, the games have to be platformers — either 2D or 3D. This eliminates Mario sports games, the Mario Kart series, role-playing games, and all the Mario Parties. Secondly, the games have to have Mario himself as the lead character. This eliminated Super Mario Land 3 and Super Mario World 2: Yoshi’s Island.
 In the end, we were left with 22 games. None of them are bad , but we did have to name a loser. We also chose to omit The Lost Levels and instead considered Super Mario Bros. 2 as the definitive second game in the series.
This is the Super Mario series, ranked from best to worst.
The best Call of Duty games, ranked One of the best sci-fi games ever made is coming to Nintendo Switch next month Netflix subscribers are getting one of the decade’s best games 1. Super Mario 64 Nintendo 64, Wii, Wii U Platform, Adventure Nintendo EAD Nintendo June 23, 1996 Making the jump from side-scrolling 2D to 3D platforming for Super Mario 64 was a risky move for Nintendo and the Mario series, but it succeeded in a way few other games ever had. Mario’s running, jumping, and flipping translates perfectly to the Nintendo 64’s polygonal visual style, with creative levels encouraging exploration and problem-solving in addition to traditional platforming.
Super Mario 64 is one of the few 3D platformers from the 64-bit era that has aged gracefully, and it’s just as playable in 2019 as it was when the Nintendo 64 launched more than two decades earlier, especially now that it was included in the 3D All-Stars pack. Perhaps most importantly, however, is that it was the first mainline Mario game to star Charles Martinet — a role that has been iconic ever since.
Read less 2. Super Mario Odyssey Nintendo Switch Platform, Adventure Nintendo Nintendo October 27, 2017 Nintendo bizarrely chose to ignore the formula established in Super Mario 64 with future Mario games … or at least the company did before creating Super Mario Odyssey.
 Set in a series of large, open environments filled with platforming challenges and secrets, Odyssey is Nintendo platforming at its very best. The character “Cappy” allows Mario to turn into nearly any object, giving him dozens of new abilities and options for beating levels.
The game’s gorgeous mix of realistic foliage with Mario’s classic cartoony frame makes it hilarious at every turn, as well, and Odyssey ’s jazzy soundtrack and creative 2D segments make it one of the most inventive games in the series yet.
Read less 3. Super Mario World Wii, Super Nintendo Entertainment System, Nintendo 3DS, Wii U, Super Famicom, New Nintendo 3DS Platform, Adventure Nintendo EAD Nintendo November 21, 1990 The Super Nintendo Entertainment System had a lot to prove, as Sega had beaten it to the 16-bit market with the Genesis. Naturally, Nintendo chose Mario to lead the charge and delivered the endlessly fun Super Mario World.
 Though the game followed the same basic formula as the original game and Super Mario Bros. 3 , its increased use of items and diverse cast of enemies make it, unlike any other Mario title.
Spin-jumping to save yourself from death became a staple for the series because of Super Mario World , and the game’s cheery visual and audio style can brighten anyone’s day. And then, of course, there’s Yoshi — we fell head over heels in love with the green dinosaur and have Super Mario World to thank.
Read less 4. Super Mario Bros. 3 Super Nintendo Entertainment System, Super Famicom Platform Nintendo EAD Nintendo July 14, 1993 Nintendo went in a very different direction with Super Mario Bros. 2 , and it was one that not all fans could appreciate. For Super Mario Bros. 3 , the series went back to its platforming, enemy-stomping roots, but the game wasn’t a simple rehash of the original.
Instead, it introduced creative sub-bosses that you’d fight on your way to Bowser, along with more power-ups and crazy secrets that could allow you to skip a portion of the game. Perhaps its only weak spot was its art style, which was meant to resemble a stage play but instead appeared almost lifeless in comparison to the other games.
Read less 5. Super Mario Bros. Wonder Nintendo Switch Platform Nintendo EPD Nintendo October 20, 2023 Read less From its bright and colorful visual style to its wild and wacky Wonder Seed segments, this is easily among the most unique entries in the decades-spanning series. And it’s even got online co-op! 6. Super Mario Galaxy 2 Wii, Wii U Platform, Adventure Nintendo EAD, Nintendo Nintendo May 23, 2010 Nintendo doesn’t generally make direct sequels to its games, as it tends to alter them in significant and fundamental ways with each release.
Super Mario Galaxy 2 is one of the exceptions to this rule, as the first Wii game’s massive popularity and success made it an obvious candidate for a follow-up.
Galaxy 2 keeps the same planet-exploring gameplay style of its predecessor but brings Yoshi back to the party. The dinosaur can eat enemies and even dash up vertical surfaces, leading to creative and challenging obstacles.
Read less 7. Super Mario Bros.
Super Nintendo Entertainment System, Super Famicom Platform Nintendo EAD Nintendo July 14, 1993 Read less 8. Super Mario Galaxy Wii Platform, Adventure Nintendo EAD Nintendo November 01, 2007 Read less 9. Super Mario RPG Nintendo Switch Role-playing (RPG), Adventure ArtePiazza Nintendo November 17, 2023 The original Super Mario RPG has long been a fan-favorite role-playing game from the SNES era, melding the eponymous plumber with classic JRPG gameplay. And while its remake makes a few missteps, especially in how it makes certain parts of the game a bit too easy, it retains nearly all of the original’s charm and whimsy.
Boasting an entirely rerecorded soundtrack, modernized visuals, and a variety of minor tweaks that are (mostly) positive, the Super Mario RPG remake is an undeniable bright spot in the Nintendo Switch’s library.
Read less 10. Super Mario 3D Land Nintendo 3DS Platform Nintendo EAD, Brownie Brown, Nintendo Nintendo November 03, 2011 The Wii’s unique features were immediately apparent to all players, but the 3DS didn’t have the same luck with its glasses-free 3D technology — at least not right away. When Super Mario 3D Land launched, however, it all started to make sense.
The course-based 3D platformer felt like the earlier 2D games were simply given a third dimension, and with the ability to better gauge jumps by making use of the 3D technology, 3D Land remains one of the tightest-controlling 3D platformers ever. Sure, it didn’t reinvent the wheel, but it certainly made it a lot easier to use.
Read less 11. Super Mario 3D World + Bowser's Fury Nintendo Switch Platform, Adventure Nintendo EAD Tokyo Software Development Group No.1 Nintendo February 12, 2021 Left without the 3D capabilities of the 3DS, Nintendo nonetheless developed a home console follow-up to Super Mario 3D Land with Super Mario 3D World.
 After that console failed to give this game as much attention as it deserved, they ported it onto the incredibly popular Switch, but also bundled in a brand new mode called Bowser’s Fury.
 The base game is an expanded 3D Land in every way. There are more stages, characters, power-ups, and overall fun. It is a pure joy to play from start to finish. Plus, this is where we first met Captain Toad, who would later go on to star in his own game.
Bowser’s Fury , on the other hand, gives us a new way to play in this 3D World format by swapping out obstacle course style stages for a singular open level like we got in Odyssey.
 It is a smaller addition to the game, but features a lot of concepts that we suspect Nintendo is testing out for a future game to expand on more fully. Either way, it is a more than welcome addition to an already stellar game.
Read less 12. Super Mario Maker 2 Nintendo Switch Platform Nintendo EPD, Nintendo Nintendo June 28, 2019 Read less 13. Super Mario Sunshine Nintendo GameCube Platform, Adventure Nintendo EAD Nintendo July 19, 2002 Perhaps the most experimental game in the series since Super Mario Bros. 2 , the GameCube-exclusive Super Mario Sunshine threw Mario onto a tropical paradise armed with his trusty F.L.U.D.D. cannon. The multi-purpose device gave Mario the ability to clean up gunk on the ground, perform acrobatic maneuvers, or even just fire at enemies.
Sunshine represented Nintendo at a time when the company had once again become an underdog, and its bold move away from standard Mario conventions emphasized the scrappy design philosophy. Despite this, Sunshine hasn’t aged particularly well, with a finicky camera making it hard to come back to. Even the Nintendo Switch port as part of the 3D All-Stars pack didn’t address these issues as many hoped.
Read less 14. New Super Mario Bros. U Wii U Platform, Adventure Nintendo EAD, Nintendo, Nintendo Nintendo November 18, 2012 A refined take on the New Super Mario Bros. formula, New Super Mario Bros. U isn’t exactly the life-changing experience of the first game or Super Mario 64 , but it’s well-designed Nintendo platforming with a healthy dose of humor and whimsy.
Freezing Dry Bones and sending fireballs and Bowser’s minions remains a whole lot of fun in the Wii U game, the Switch’s New Super Mario Bros. U Deluxe bundles in extra challenges and the New Super Luigi mode for even more platforming goodness.
Read less 15. Super Mario Maker Wii U Platform Nintendo EAD Software Development Group No.4, Nintendo Nintendo September 10, 2015 Read less 16. Super Mario Bros. 2 Super Nintendo Entertainment System, Super Famicom Platform Nintendo EAD Nintendo July 14, 1993 Super Mario Bros. 2 was never even supposed to be a Mario game. What began as Doki Doki Panic in Japan was given an all-new Mario aesthetic for release in North America, where the Lost Levels version of the game was deemed too difficult.
You throw vegetables at enemies instead of jumping on their heads and there are very few recognizable characters, but it would be unfair to paint Super Mario Bros. 2 as a bad game. It just doesn’t feel like a Mario game, back from a time when Nintendo hadn’t nailed down the series’ staple features yet.
Read less 17. New Super Mario Bros.
Nintendo DS, Wii U Platform, Adventure Nintendo EAD, Nintendo Nintendo May 15, 2006 Read less 18. New Super Mario Bros. 2 Nintendo 3DS Platform, Adventure Nintendo EAD, Nintendo SPD Nintendo July 28, 2012 Read less 19. Super Mario Run Android, iOS Platform, Adventure, Arcade Nintendo EPD Nintendo December 15, 2016 Read less 20. New Super Mario Bros. Wii Wii, Wii U Platform, Adventure Nintendo EAD Nintendo November 12, 2009 The GameCube was one of the weakest-selling Nintendo consoles ever, but its follow-up, the Wii, was one of its biggest hits. Unfortunately, that occasionally meant Nintendo released bare-bones versions of its games, knowing casual fans would be interested in them anyway.
This was the case with New Super Mario Bros. Wii , a game that introduced a handful of new power-ups and multiplayer options but did little else to separate itself from the pack. Still, the Wii Remote was the perfect controller for the simple platformer, making it one of the best-selling games of all-time.
Read less 21. Super Mario Land 2: 6 Golden Coins Game Boy, Nintendo 3DS Platform Nintendo R&D1 Nintendo October 21, 1992 Read less 22. Super Mario Land Game Boy, Nintendo 3DS Platform Nintendo R&D1 Nintendo April 21, 1989 Game Boy owners hoping to experience a full-fledged Mario adventure on the go were likely disappointed when Super Mario Land was released — if they could convince themselves it wasn’t the best game in the world at the time.
Super Mario Land kept the basic skeleton of its console brethren but used a putrid art style and low-quality tunes (including some public-domain music).
At the time, it was still revolutionary to play something like this on a system you could fit in your pocket, and it did experiment with different gameplay styles, but Super Mario Land pales in comparison to what came next.
Read less If you liked this ranking of our favorite Mario titles, you should check out our other all-time rankings for Nintendo franchises like The Legend of Zelda , Pokémon , and Kirby.
Editors' Recommendations Best Black Friday gaming laptop deals: Cheapest prices today The best Switch controllers for 2023 The best PS5 exclusives How to rank up fast in Modern Warfare 3: best ways to farm XP The PS5 games with the best graphics Nintendo Nintendo Switch Gaming Blink while playing one of the best city-building games, and you'll lose countless hours expanding your city, refining your infrastructure, and focusing your trade. Ever since the original Sim City, we've been losing sleep designing the perfect utopias for our digital citizens, and as time has gone on, they've only gotten more satisfying to build.
Although city-building games usually carry a steep learning curve and tons of content, beginners can dive into any option on our list and have a good time. The genre has expanded to include tons of big hitters, with exciting sequels like Cities Skylines 2 on the horizon. We have a mix of hardcore survival experiences like Frostpunk and minimalist builders like Islanders, so there's something for everyone.
Gaming The PlayStation 5 is looking to dominate the console landscape with its incredible library of games. Like the rest of the industry, Sony saw several major game delays in 2022 (and more this year), but has since dropped several new hit games like God of War Ragnarok, the Resident Evil 4 remake, and Alan Wake 2, among others. There are plenty of games out on PS5 for every kind of gamer.
And there are plenty more great titles on the way — don't forget to check out our list of the best upcoming PS5 games that will come out later this year.
Gaming The Nintendo Switch has had a lot of success in the nearly six years since its release. The console-handheld hybrid has been on the market since 2017, and a slew of fantastic games from first- and third-party developers have launched over the course of the system's life cycle. Recently, heavy hitters such as Metroid Dread, Pokémon Scarlet and Violet, and Kirby and the Forgotten Land have boosted the system's appeal, while a healthy list of upcoming Switch games continues to drum up excitement.
There are plenty of incredible games to enjoy on the Switch right now. But which ones should you check out? These are the best Nintendo Switch games (including free-to-play titles) for 2023.
Action Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
