Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Netflix Original Movies Best Comedies on Netflix Best Netflix Original Series Best Anime on Netflix Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Fantasy Movies on Netflix Home Entertainment Features Manifest season 4, part 1 ending explained By Christine Persaud Close To think that Manifest might not have gotten a final season was unimaginable for fans of the supernatural show. Originally airing on NBC, the network canceled the series after a cliffhanger season 3 ending, one of the most shocking season finales ever.
Two years later… Following the Calling Alas, poor Cal Zeke’s true role is revealed But by then, Manifest had already garnered a huge new audience on Netflix, and the streaming service brought it back for a fourth and final season. Delivered in two parts, the first part premiered last month. But fans are still talking about the explosive midseason ending.
Two years later… The story picked up two years after Grace’s heartbreaking death and Angelina’s abduction of Eden. Clearly a shell of a man, Ben has completely dedicated himself to locating his daughter: not even the fact that his son returned having mysteriously aged five years snapped him out of it. Despite the family’s best efforts, a bearded Ben sleeps in the attic and constantly searches for clues that might lead to her whereabouts. Death Date, who? He doesn’t seem to care anymore.
Peter Kramer / Netflix Meanwhile, Cal is living in hiding while Ben must pretend his eldest son is missing, too. It would, after all, be difficult to explain how Cal magically aged five years, even despite all the other mystical happenings. The entire family is living together, with Michaela taking over Ben’s job as de facto leader of the Flight 828ers. Zeke, meanwhile, is working as a psychologist, making good use of his empath abilities to help others by absorbing their pain and emotions. Saanvi had been having a rough time but found purpose by reuniting with Vance to continue their research.
Everything coming to Netflix in September 2023 Silo season 1’s ending, explained The Flash’s ending, explained Following the Calling Peter Kramer / Netflix Naturally, a series of Callings are what brings everyone back into the Death Date fold. Michaela’s visions lead her to a mysterious man who claims that Cal holds the keys to it all. He is, the man tells Cal, the “dragon,” though no one is clear what that means. Ben follows a Calling that eventually leads him to discover that Angelina has been hopping from place to place with Eden.
He might have her location at a home where Adrian is staying, and while Ben finally reunites with his daughter, he’s kidnapped first and an explosion puts them all at risk. Eden’s integration back into home life with the Stones is not easy. It’s riddled with her incessant cries for “mommy” that leave Ben gutted and fans infuriated at any sight of the season’s main antagonist, Angelina.
Back in the secret lab, Saanvi is convinced she needs to get her hands on omega sapphire to save not only the lifeboat but, as it becomes clear, potentially the entire world. Working alongside Vance, the dynamic duo is getting close to an answer. TJ has also returned and he and Olive make some fascinating mythological discoveries that could change the game.
Alas, poor Cal Speaking of Cal, poor Cal. While he desperately wants to leave the house, he’s told he can’t until he finally defies everyone and goes on his first-ever date. The catalyst for this bold move: he receives the devastating news that his cancer has returned, it’s terminal, and he doesn’t have much time.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Filled with several explosive moments (both figuratively and literally), showdowns with Angelina where she just won’t seem to die, and a deteriorating Cal, Manifest season 4, part 1 ends with yet another series of cliffhangers. Angelina is, no surprise, not only still alive but has possession of the sapphire, which could lead to devastating consequences given the tremendous power it wields: she was already able to use it to create visions of both Grace and Evie, completely throwing Ben and Michaela off their games.
The Flight 828 passengers are all being detained thanks to the betrayal of Dr. Gupta, who felt it was the right thing to do given Angelina’s current status. Luckily, the 828ers still have Jared and Drea on their side. But that might no longer be enough.
Zeke’s true role is revealed The biggest moment of the first half of this final season, however, is when Zeke’s role in the story comes full circle. He was not on Flight 828 yet has somehow been connected to it all, gaining his own supernatural powers and becoming intertwined with the Stone family.
Peter Kramer / Netflix While everyone else is fulfilling investigative duties, Zeke offers to stay back with Cal, who is, by this point, on his deathbed. Looking at the young man with whom he grew so close, Zeke realizes what he was meant to do all along: save Cal. He uses his empath abilities, musters every bit of strength, and takes on all of Cal’s cancerous pain. It seemingly kills him, and a distraught Michaela cradles her husband in her arms as the family arrives home to discover the bittersweet reality: Cal is going to be okay, but Zeke most likely is not.
There’s no official premiere date for the second half of Manifest ’s fourth and final season. But the prediction is that it might arrive by summer 2023. Until then, fans mourn the likely death of Zeke, rejoice that Cal will be OK, and fear for what might happen to the now imprisoned 828ers, including Saanvi, and the power Angelina holds, quite literally, in her hands.
You can stream all four seasons of Manifest on Netflix.
Editors' Recommendations Why Jon Pertwee’s Doctor Who is the best version of the character ever Geralt fights to the end in The Witcher season 3 part 2 trailer Indiana Jones and the Dial of Destiny’s ending, explained Manifest season 4, part 2 trailer teases final episodes The Ark showrunners unpack season 1 finale and look ahead to season 2 Features Netflix Streaming Services Entertainment Renfield, Nicolas Cage's vampire comedy, has swooped into cinemas, and audiences have sunk their teeth into quite a special treat. As a modern reimagining of Bram Stoker's Dracula, Renfield follows the count's titular servant (Nicholas Hoult) as he tries to break free of his oppressive master and live a normal life.
Written by former Rick and Morty actor/writer Ryan Ridley, this film is a smart and hilarious analysis of Renfield and Dracula's toxic relationship, and it's chock-full of over-the-top violence that should satisfy fans of grindhouse horror and hardcore action flicks. Now that the movie is out, here's a breakdown of the film and what its ending means for Renfield's future.
Entertainment Most of episode 6 of The Mandalorian season 3 is dedicated to a side quest. The episode, titled Guns for Hire, sends Bo-Katan Kryze (Katee Sackhoff), Din Djarin (Pedro Pascal), and Grogu to the opulent planet of Plazir-15, where they hope to convince Bo-Katan’s former Mandalorian followers to rejoin their cause to retake Mandalore. Before they can do so, however, they have to perform a task for the planet’s leaders, a former Imperial officer named Captain Bombardier (Jack Black) and his wife, The Duchess (Lizzo).
As its guest stars suggest, Guns for Hire is a surprisingly silly installment of The Mandalorian. However, that doesn’t mean it didn’t leave us asking a few important questions.
Are there more Mandalorian privateers? Entertainment Warning: this article contains major spoilers for The Super Mario Bros. Movie (2023).
At the end of The Super Mario Bros. Movie, Mario (Chris Pratt) accidentally brings Bowser (Jack Black) and all of his minions to Earth. Desperate to save Princess Peach (Anya Taylor-Joy) and the Mushroom Kingdom from one of Bowser’s powerful Bonzai Bill bombs, Mario redirects the missile into one of the magical green pipes that connect all of the film's universes together. Mario doesn’t realize that, in doing so, he momentarily destroys the barriers between worlds.
What happens in the last act of The Super Mario Bros. Movie? The final act of The Super Mario Bros. Movie takes place in the same Brooklyn neighborhood where Luigi (Charlie Day) and Mario’s family live. Determined to put Bowser’s quest to forcibly marry Peach and conquer the multiverse to an end, Mario faces off against Bowser on the streets of his own home. Unfortunately, even with the help of some of his new friends — namely, Peach, Toad (Keegan-Michael Key), and Donkey Kong (Seth Rogen) — Mario can’t quite get the edge on Bowser.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
