Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix F1 Live Stream Stranger Things Season 5 Best New Movies Most Popular Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney+ UFC Live Stream Best Movies on Disney+ Home Entertainment Features Guides Manifest season 4 part 2’s ending, explained By Christine Persaud Close “We’re all in this together.” That’s the overarching theme of Manifest.
 After being canceled by NBC, the supernatural drama was saved by Netflix to give it the ending it deserved. The first half of Manifest season 4 was released in December 2022. Fittingly, the final 10 episodes premiered on June 2, the “Death Date” on the show when the passengers of Flight 828 would finally realize their fate.
Just trying to survive Connecting sapphires It’s all connected Judgment day What happens at the end of Manifest season 4, part 2? What was that fate? It was all revealed in the final episode. But first, the passengers had to go through a journey to get there.
Just trying to survive Image used with permission by copyright holder The final episodes begin with most of the passengers from Flight 828 still being held in a detention center. Scientists are studying their Callings, sending people out in the field to solve them. They also want to determine what is coming next and how to stop it. Some passengers, however, including Angelina (Holly Taylor), have managed to evade capture and are in hiding in the real world.
The Hunger Games: The Ballad of Songbirds & Snakes’ ending, explained The Marvels’ ending, explained 3 underrated 1980s sci-fi TV shows you should watch in November One passenger who was somehow brought back and is being kept in the detention center is Captain Bill Daly (Frank Deal), the pilot of the flight. Heavily sedated, researchers are trying to figure out as much as they can from him. But little did anyone know that he brought with him destruction. From locusts to boils and turning water into blood, he delivers plagues to the passengers that end up killing several guards.
Out of fear, the researchers shut down the facility with all passengers in it, locking them inside to fend for themselves. Ben (Josh Dallas), naturally, steps up to the plate to lead. Drea (Ellen Tamaki), meanwhile, who is pregnant with Jared’s (J.R. Ramirez) child, has moved into a dilapidated unit beside the facility, secretly breaking down a wall to provide an escape route for the passengers so they can continue doing their important work.
Image used with permission by copyright holder But they are going to need more than saving from the general public because Angelina is on a quest to bring on the end of days and reset the world. With the sapphire now embedded into her hand, she wields the same power as Cal (Ty Doran).
She’s able to appear as the figures of others, killing people one by one that are integral to the plan, including Daly. When she’s eventually captured and they try to remove the sapphire from her hand, it shifts upwards, embedding itself into her central nervous system. She can’t be stopped.
Image used with permission by copyright holder In the process of the attempted removal, she lets out a massive scream that blocks passengers from accessing their Callings. However, Cal realizes he can still access not only his Callings, but those of everyone else. He gets to work trying to dissect them from the divine consciousness, one by one.
Passengers escape through Drea’s home in pairs to try and secretly solve the Callings Cal tells them about in hopes that this will redeem them and save them from the Death Date. But Cal’s Callings are getting weaker.
Connecting sapphires Peter Kramer / Netflix Through a series of mystical clues, the group realizes that what Cal needs is not to connect to Angelina, but to the piece of Noah’s Ark that contains sapphire. There’s just one problem: Saanvi (Parveen Kaur) threw the driftwood into Storm King Mountain a while back, where the fissure occurred in the Earth. It’s time for a treasure hunt. Ben and others head to the woods to camp out and try to access the piece of wood.
As the group members sleep in tents while waiting to learn from Cal when the right time to act is, he jolts awake and walks toward the fissure. It glows, as does his arm. He realizes what he needs to do, just as Ben arrives to plead with his son not to go. They deliver tearful goodbyes and Cal stands within the sapphire, only to disappear into a streaming blue light that is visible throughout the sky as others look on.
Image used with permission by copyright holder They do more than look, though. All the passengers see the light and feel compelled to follow it to the same spot. This includes Eagan (Ali Lopez-Sohaili) who, for a while, teamed up with Angelina. But he has a crisis of conscience thanks to some convincing by Adrian (Jared Grimes) and decides to defect, returning to the other passengers.
It’s all connected Giovanni Rufino / Netflix Why us? That’s the question everyone from Flight 828 wonders. In a campfire discussion on the eve of the Death Date, Michaela (Melissa Roxburgh) suggests that she doesn’t think there was any rhyme or reason. They were just a random group of people on a plane, some good, some bad. Saanvi agrees, noting that we’re a “statistical sample for a divine experiment.” “We are all connected to one another,” adds Ben. “Everyone on that plane, everyone in the world. We just forget.” Michaela believes the Callings weren’t designed to force them to do good, but rather to choose it. “Bottom line,” adds Ben, “we’re all just supposed to do our part.” It’s a divine life lesson that makes the show, as corny as it might be at times, much deeper than it might appear to be on the surface. As they discuss what might come next, they get news of volcanoes erupting all around the world.
Judgment day Image used with permission by copyright holder Judgement day has arrived. The passengers see the fissure turn red and begin to erupt. Out of it emerges Flight 828, perfectly intact. The door opens, welcoming the passengers in. There’s no other choice but to hop aboard. As the passengers file in, one by one, Angelina emerges with her group of seven, wielding a gun and ordering them all to leave.
When she tries to invoke her power from the sapphire, however, nothing happens. Her group abandons her and it’s a showdown between Angelina and Ben. Back home, while researching a mysterious symbol and inscription, Olive (Luna Blaise) discovers that the final judgement is forgiving Angelina. The picture of a man carrying a young woman through fire they saw several seasons ago isn’t of Ben and Olive — it’s of Ben and Angelina. She frantically tries to reach her father to tell him. Thankfully, Ben decides on his own to show mercy and carries an injured Angelina in his arms onto the plane, unaware that this is precisely what he was supposed to do.
They take off, not knowing what’s coming next. Soon, fissures begin to appear in peoples’ skin, and they explode and turn to dust. But not everyone, just the bad people: the cheats, the liars, thieves, and murderers — those who did not work with Ben and his group to help save the Lifeboat. Adrian is affected until Eagan panics and offers himself instead, saying Adrian is a good man. Adrian is saved and when Eagan is about to perish, Adrian pleads with God that offering one’s life for the life of another is the most selfless thing a person can do. It works and Eagan is spared, too.
Saanvi begins to burn: she did take someone’s life, after all. But she’s spared as Ben embraces her and the fissures disappear. Saanvi has done enough to redeem herself. All in all, 11 people die. A smoky figure appears, presumably the Grim Reaper, but the passengers fight back, telling it about all the good they have done. It disappears in a literal puff of smoke.
What happens at the end of Manifest season 4, part 2? Image used with permission by copyright holder Outside the windows, the world as seen through the plane’s windows appears to have returned to normal. The plane lands, and the passengers reluctantly walk off, unsure of where they will end up. Are they dead? In heaven? It turns out, they are in the airport on April 7, 2013, the date Flight 828 was supposed to land. There waiting for Ben is Grace (Athena Karkanis) and a young Olive (Jenna Kurmemaj). Cal (Jack Messina) has returned to his younger self with no memory of what happened.
Ben excitedly greets Grace and his parents, and when she asks who the woman is that he’s looking at so lovingly, he declares that she’s a doctor named Saanvi who is going to save Cal’s life. Michaela breaks up with Jared, telling him they want different things and there’s a woman out there who is better for him, alluding to Drea, whom he later bumps into leaving the airport.
Michaela rushes outside, knowing Zeke mentioned he was doing airport pickups in his cab that day. She finds him and jumps into the cab, excited that she knows what’s to come, though he has no idea who she is. Ben spots Vance (Daryl Edwards) walking by to investigate the mystery of 11 passengers missing from the plane that just landed from Jamaica.
Everyone gets a second chance, learning to appreciate what they have in life. Secretly, however, they have all become a big family who will forever remain connected to one another. They all have an idea of what’s coming in the future. They’re all still on the same lifeboat together. But this time, they’re finally able to truly live.
Stream Manifest on Netflix.
Editors' Recommendations Thanksgiving’s ending, explained 7 best sci-fi movie actors Upload season 3’s ending, explained The Morning Show season 3 ending, explained 3 underrated 1970s sci-fi TV shows you should watch Entertainment There's never a dull moment for Dr. Ben Song (Raymond Lee) on NBC's Quantum Leap. Every time Ben travels through time, he leaps into the life of a stranger and sees someone else's face in the mirror. Last week, Ben was a bank teller named Lorena Chaves, and in Quantum Leap season 2 episode 3, "Closure Encounters," Ben is leaping into the life of a government agent who is investigating extraterrestrial activity. That might not be the strangest thing that Ben sees this week. In our exclusive preview scene from the episode, Ben meets Hannah Carson (Eliza Taylor), a new player that he'll be seeing a lot of this season.
Episode 203 “Closure Encounters” Preview Entertainment The Walking Dead: Daryl Dixon is the latest in a flurry of spin-offs of The Walking Dead, expanding the franchise into new areas previously unexplored. This one focuses on fan-favorite character Daryl Dixon (Norman Reedus), one of the few who didn’t exist in the comic books but was created solely for the show. He mysteriously ends up in Paris, providing an entirely new setting and a new primary language for the series (don’t worry, there are subtitles) along with lots of F-bombs (no language restrictions on this show!) and a Last of Us-like journey.
How did he get there, what happened, and what’s in store for the already confirmed second season? With a massive reveal in the end, there’s lots to love, and look forward to, about The Walking Dead: Daryl Dixon.
Early encounters in France Entertainment Warning: This article contains spoilers for The Fall of the House of Usher (2023).
The first episode of Netflix's The Fall of the House of Usher sets up a few mysteries that the series doesn’t solve until its eighth and final installment. The first is, of course, why Verna (Carla Gugino) even chose to orchestrate the deaths of all of the Usher children. It’s also unclear initially why Lenore (Kyliegh Curran) is constantly texting her grandfather, Roderick (Bruce Greenwood), during his conversation with C. Auguste Dupin (Carl Lumbly). Lastly, there’s the nature of the mysterious “confession” that Roderick has promised Dupin. After all, what could a man so blatantly unscrupulous possibly have to confess? How The Fall of the House of Usher sets up its big finale The Fall of the House of Usher’s finale, fortunately, answers all of these questions. Early on, the episode flashes back in time to finally reveal what happened the night that Roderick and his sister, Madeline (played in her youth by Willa Fitzgerald), first crossed paths with Verna. As anyone who has read Edgar Allan Poe’s The Cask of Amontillado may have guessed, it's revealed that the two used Fortunato Pharmaceuticals’ 1980 New Year’s Eve party as a way to lure Roderick’s boss, Rufus Griswold (Michael Trucco), into the company’s basement. The two then drugged Rufus and sealed him alive behind a brick wall in order to complete their takeover of Fortunato. (The twinkling Roderick has heard throughout the series and the jester that’s haunted him are both callbacks to the costume Rufus was wearing the night he was killed.) Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
