Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Netflix Original Movies Best Comedies on Netflix Best Netflix Original Series Best Anime on Netflix Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Fantasy Movies on Netflix Home Entertainment Features The Lincoln Lawyer’s Manuel Garcia-Rulfo on letting go and trusting the process By Dan Girolamo Close Mickey Haller, the lawyer who runs his practice out of the back seat in his car, is heading to Netflix in The Lincoln Lawyer.
 Based on the bestselling novel from Michael Connelly, The Lincoln Lawyer stars Manuel Garcia-Rulfo ( 6 Underground ) as Haller, the cocky and charismatic defense attorney who prefers to work out of his Lincoln in Los Angeles. Created by David E. Kelly, the series is based on Connelly’s 2008 novel The Brass Verdict , and not a direct continuation of the 2011 movie of the same name starring Matthew McConaughey as Haller.
After spending time away from the job, Haller is thrust back on the scene after his former law partner is killed, leaving Mickey with all of his clients, including a high-profile murder case. While Haller tries to win an impossible case, he must also balance working with his second ex-wife, Lorna (Becki Newton), while trying to win back his first ex-wife, Maggie (Neve Campbell).
Image used with permission by copyright holder Digital Trends spoke with Garcia-Rulfo on what attracted him to the character, how inspiration came in the form of a phrase from McConaughey, his admiration for Tom Hanks, and the importance of giving an authentic portrayal.
Note: This interview has been edited for length and clarity.
The Lincoln Lawyer’s Becki Newton on why she loves playing bold characters The Lincoln Lawyer trailer previews Netflix’s legal thriller Digital Trends: What can someone who knows nothing about this character from the books or movie expect to see when they watch The Lincoln Lawyer ? Manuel Garcia-Rulfo: It’s a courtroom drama that I think is always fun. The stakes are always very, very high. So this is one of those shows that is very intriguing. You don’t know what’s going to happen. But you really know a little, so it gets you guessing. It’s just a fun, fun ride that you take with this fun character.
What is it about this character, Mickey Haller, that attracted you to the project from the start? Oh well, honestly, a lot of things. But first of all, Mickey Haller is just an amazing character. You know, just full of life, and the kind of character that I love. But it was a couple of things. I mean, one, doing the adaptation for the bestselling author [Michael Connelly] of the Mickey Haller books, which are amazing. That’s always really cool. Also, the people that were involved in the project were Netflix, David E. Kelly, and (showrunner) Ted (Humphrey). I knew Neve Campbell ( Scream ) was going to be in it.
Specifically for Mickey Haller, there’s something about the guy that is so interesting. The first time I auditioned, I remember reading the scenes, and I just really connected with the words. It’s one of those things where you read the pages and want to play, say it aloud, and just act. He’s bigger than life and always on the edge. The stakes are always really high, but he’s always charismatic. He’s like a man of the people, and he blends in everywhere. He’s a very fun character.
Were you able to speak with Michael Connelly, author of the Mickey Haller series , throughout this process? Did he give you any notes or advice about Mickey? Yeah, like a month prior to shooting, I talked to him. Honestly, one of the things that he told me, I wish I could have come up with it. But he told me that when Matthew McConaughey was shooting the film, he asked Matthew, “Why do this? Why portray Mickey Haller?” Matthew said, “Well, Mickey Haller is one of those guys that dances in the rain without getting wet.” As I said, I wish I could come up with that. It was so beautiful. It was like an image that was so alive to me. It just spoke to me so well. That was the background to my character. So I start building the character because of that image of a guy dancing in the rain without getting wet. With Mickey Haller, he’s dealing with his two ex-wives, a daughter, a drug addiction, and his legal cases. He still makes it work.
Image used with permission by copyright holder I mean that was the most Matthew McConaughey line ever.
I love him for that [laughing]. I couldn’t come up with anything better.
Did you see Matthew’s version of the character prior to taking this role? I saw it when it came out. I don’t remember the year, but I saw it when it came out. I remember really enjoying it and loving the work of Matthew. But no, I didn’t rewatch it. I just wanted to do my own thing. Sometimes you watch something and you get influenced by it. I just didn’t want that. But I remember loving it. I remember really liking the movie and. of course, the job by Matthew.
Actors have portrayed the same characters before on many occasions. Is it challenging to step in a role that’s been played by another actor, knowing the audience will automatically compare the two performances? Is that in the back of your head, or are you able to drown it out? Well, I know people are going to compare. That’s what we do. I just think as an actor, as you said, a lot of characters have been portrayed [by different actors]. It’s my thing, and it’s me portraying that [character]. It’s just a different take on it, you know? No, I cannot be worried about it. I think he did an amazing, amazing job. He’s such a charismatic, good actor. You know, I would bring some other stuff to it. This is a different take.
Your portrayal aligns more with the books because Mickey’s mom is Mexican, and you were born in Mexico. Was it important to put forward an authentic portrayal of the character? Did you use Mickey as a vehicle for celebrating Latin American culture and Los Angeles? Yeah, definitely.
As you said in the books , it’s like that. His mother is full Mexican and his father is American. So it was really cool to see that, to explore that part of Mickey Haller. Every time I could, I would tell the director or the writers, “Instead of him ordering a burger, why doesn’t he just order a tequila?” You know, stuff like that. But for me, it was important. It was a way to explore the best of the two worlds, Mexico and the States.
Image used with permission by copyright holder You touched on this earlier, but David E. Kelley created this series. Name a famous legal show for the last 35 years, and David’s probably had a hand in its creation: L.A. Law, Ally McBeal, The Practice , and now, The Lincoln Lawyer.
 When you see David’s name involved in the project, does that provide a sense of comfort, knowing that you’re working with a creator that understands this genre? Of course. Once you have that team backing you (Netflix and David), you just let go because they know what they’re doing, especially David E. Kelly in this type of show. He knows what he’s doing. Ted, the showrunner, has been working with David as well. So they know what they’re doing. So you just let go and trust the process.
Mickey is not only dealing with this murder case, but balancing the fact that he has to work with both of his ex-wives. How was working with Neve and Becki? Yeah, he’s juggling all the time. It was so fun. I think they’re just amazing actresses. I think it’s very clear the type of relationship that he has with Lorna and the relationship he has with Maggie, and how they click with Mickey Haller. Maggie is the love of his life, and he would do anything to get her back, to get back his family, and his daughter. Then on the other side, you have Lorna. It’s like Batman and Robin, you know, where she just pushes him to try to grow more and more. They make a great team. It was so fun to have the chance to play with them and share scenes with them.
Do you have a favorite legal drama? I mean I have so many. I really love them. The one movie that I really, really like is A Few Good Men.
You can’t go wrong with Aaron Sorkin.
Yeah, I love that film. There are so many projects that I’m a fan of, but I think that is my favorite. I just love it.
Did you get used to working in the bac kseat of a car? No [laughing].
It seems tough. I never read in the car, so I can’t even imagine trying to look through papers.
I’m the same way. I cannot even read a text message without getting dizzy, so I don’t think I could do it.
You have another project coming out this year, A Man Called Otto with Tom Hanks.
 This is your second time working with Tom. What’s it like working alongside him? Have you been able to pick up some things from working with him and apply them to your performances? Funny enough, I just wrapped that movie two days ago. I love him. Tom is just honestly out of this world. As an actor, everything he does — his preparation, his commitment, him as a person. I’ve learned so many things from him since Greyhound.
Even with the director, Marc Forster, we were talking like, “Isn’t Tom amazing?” He’s always with the best energy and professionalism, and he’s always on time. His work ethic is insane. So yeah, I was very happy to work with him again. Every time he invites me to work with him, I’ll be there. He’s the best. He’s really the best.
The Lincoln Lawyer season 1 streams on Netflix starting May 13.
Editors' Recommendations Bobby Gonzalez and Jeffrey Licon on The Garcias and the power of representation Mickey Haller defines the line in The Lincoln Lawyer preview Features Netflix Streaming Services Entertainment November has been a great month for movies at Netflix, with the premiere of David Fincher's The Killer, and recent box office hits like Insidious: The Red Door and Spider-Man: Across the Spider-Verse. This week, the new additions include The Impossible, a 2012 survival thriller that has already landed on the list of the 10 most popular movies on Netflix. For younger viewers, Minions is also heating up the charts despite the pending departure of the other films in the franchise at the end of the month.
There's only one holiday weekend left in November, so what's the best way to stay on top of everything new on Netflix? Why, we are, of course. Our list of the best movies on Netflix right now is updated every Friday, even on holiday weekends, so you can easily find something for every movie lover in your life.
Entertainment Summer is long over, and the fall season is in full swing. It's now late 2023, and just about everyone is subscribed to Netflix and Hulu. But would you be surprised if I told you one of the most underrated streaming services around is Tubi? The upstart streamer has tons of new and old TV shows from every decade and every genre imaginable. Want to watch the buzziest series that aired on Max? Tubi has it. Are you feeling nostalgic about that old movie or cartoon you used to watch as a kid in the '80s or '90s? Chances are, Tubi has it.
Tubi has so much content that it can be hard to choose which shows and films are worth your time. Digital Trends is here to help you sort out which ones are worth watching. Even though the streaming service is free, time is valuable, and no one wants to waste it watching subpar content.
Entertainment Rather than waiting for the Thanksgiving holiday weekend, Apple TV+ and Netflix dropped two of their biggest shows of the fall this week. Netflix's The Crown kicked off its sixth and final season with four new episodes, while the Apple TV+ Godzilla-adjacent series Monarch: Legacy of Monster, dropped its first two episodes this week, with new episodes arriving weekly thereafter. Also this week, Scott Pilgrim Takes Off hits Netflix, while Max gets in on the act this week by premiering the second season of Julia.
Netflix, Amazon Prime Video, Hulu, Max, Apple TV+, Disney+, Paramount+, and Peacock still have new shows coming for the rest of November, including a handful arriving next week. But if you've been thinking about cutting back on your streaming bill, then perhaps you should consider signing up for the ad-supported tiers. In the meantime, keep reading for our weekly roundup of the best new shows to stream.
When you're done here, check out the best new movies to stream this week, as well as the best shows on Netflix, best shows on Hulu, best shows on Amazon Prime Video, and best shows on Disney+.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
