Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Netflix Original Movies Best Comedies on Netflix Best Netflix Original Series Best Anime on Netflix Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Fantasy Movies on Netflix Home Entertainment Features Netflix’s Castlevania series should be your next dark-fantasy fix By Guillermo Kurten Close While the infamous “video game curse” is still prevalent today in modern-day adaptations, Netflix’s Castlevania animated series was arguably the first to break that pattern. It originally premiered in 2017 with a brief, four-episode-long first season, but the impact that it had seemed to finally tap into the potential of video game series adapted for TV and/or film.
The perfect blend of Western style with Japanese anime An immersive dark fantasy world and unique cast A loving homage to its video game roots The jury is still out on whether live-action productions could do justice to their source material — though, perhaps HBO’s The Last of Us could produce that first major shift — but the animation medium looks to have unlocked something. With fantasy cemented as a pop culture staple thanks to the likes of House of the Dragon and The Lord of the Rings: The Rings of Power , Castlevania is an excellent animated dark-fantasy series to binge. From its stylish anime inspiration to its stunningly animated set pieces, it chases that genre high.
The perfect blend of Western style with Japanese anime Image used with permission by copyright holder As a whole, the animation format is still criminally underrated despite the incredible depth of possibilities it offers, but it’s still made impressive strides over the last decade or so. That includes the Japanese anime genre , which has effectively gone from a niche form of entertainment spoken about in hushed tones to a viable global juggernaut.
New My Netflix tab looks to make streaming on the go a bit easier This action film is one of the most popular movies on Netflix. Here’s why you should watch it Stranger Things is getting an animated series on Netflix And while Castlevania itself isn’t an anime in the strictest sense of the word — as much as Netflix loves to capitalize on the word for marketing purposes — it certainly takes all of the best stylistic flair from the genre as an influence. There’s not a single character design in the show that doesn’t drip with a gothic style that brings the best of both worlds when it comes to western animation and Japanese anime — courtesy of Austin-based studio Powerhouse Animation.
On top of Powerhouse Animation Studios’ fantastic character designs, the team’s overall art direction for the show and the animation itself is a sight to behold the longer that Castlevania goes on. By the final season, nearly every frame is a showstopper, and the action set pieces are nothing short of visual spectacles.
Everything depicted on the screen looks meticulously crafted, with every fight sequence pushing the capabilities of animation to the absolute limit. That’s not to say that Castlevania is lacking in the narrative department, but prospective fans coming from a live-action show to animation certainly won’t go wanting for visual eye candy.
An immersive dark fantasy world and unique cast Image used with permission by copyright holder The fantasy genre generally lives or dies based on how compelling its world is, and Castlevania depicts one that’s more than worth getting invested in. Between the aforementioned cocktail of gothic and anime-inspired art direction, the series establishes an interesting universe ripe with a gloomy atmosphere.
While they’re not the grounded, live-action locales seen in the likes of HBO’s fantasy shows, fans of dark fantasy overall should feel right at home with Castlevania ‘s style and brooding nature. A fantasy world, however, is only as good as the characters who populate them. Thankfully, this series has a wide cast of characters with unique personalities — it not diificult to get attached to Trevor Belmont, Sypha Belnades, and Alucard’s heroics.
With Trevor taking on the role of the delinquent with a heart of gold, Sypha serving as the determined and righteous heroine holding the team together, and Alucard playing the brooding and prophetic hero seeking purpose, Castlevania creates an emotionally investing trio with distinct motivations that make them intriguing.
The show does an equally great job both creating fascinating villains and antiheroes as well, from the heartbroken and vengeful Dracula to his emotionally traumatized underlings Hector and Isaac. By season 3, Castlevania even takes some cues from Game of Thrones in terms of narrative structure, as both returning and new cast members embark on branching storylines to sow the tantalizing seeds for the climactic fourth and final season.
A loving homage to its video game roots Netflix Part of the reason so many live-action video game adaptations — and the same could be said for anime adaptations — fall flat on their faces critically is what can only be described as the studio feeling embarrassed to acknowledge that the source materials are, in fact, video games.
Seeing these beloved franchises making money in that medium seems to be the sole motivating force behind adapting them elsewhere, but Castlevania looks like a labor of love and reverence for gaming from top to bottom.
As far as Castlevania specifically goes, the series strikes a perfect balance between paying homage to its gaming roots while tastefully making creative changes to better suit a serialized story for TV.
Even the choreography for the fight scenes and the immaculate animation that brings them to life look like a vibrant video game boss fight scripted for this medium. Not to mention the ghoulish creatures of the night, the weapons, and the magic on display, all of which are complemented by the RPG-like party motif that Trevor, Sypha, and Alucard embody.
The critical success that Castlevania has earned hasn’t gone unnoticed — it even escaped Netflix’s cancellation trigger finger — with a sequel series subtitled Nocturne currently in development. But if this series has still gone under the radar for some for one reason or another amid this fantasy genre renaissance, Castlevania ‘s sense of visual style, characterizations, and embracing of its roots make it a captivating watch even for those uninitiated in the Konami video game franchise.
All four seasons of Castlevania are available to stream now on Netflix , with the Nocturne sequel series currently in development for the streamer.
Editors' Recommendations A vampire revolution begins in the trailer for Netflix’s Castlevania: Nocturne Extraction 2 is the most popular Netflix movie right now. Here’s why you should watch it Heat is one of the best movies ever. Here’s why you should watch it on Netflix right now 7 underrated Netflix shows you should be watching Everything we know about Pokémon Concierge, the upcoming Netflix anime Features Netflix Streaming Services Entertainment Arnold Schwarzenegger (Predator) is back, baby, as he headlines his first-ever TV series, Netflix's Fubar. The streamer released the first teaser trailer on Monday, where Schwarzenegger is thrown into the world of espionage.
Schwarzenegger stars as Luke, a CIA operative on the verge of retirement who discovers a secret involving his daughter Emma (Top Gun: Maverick's Monica Barbaro). Luke, who has concealed his life in the CIA from his family, learns that Emma is also a CIA operative. With the discovery, Luke is now forced back into the field for one final job as Fubar depicts "universal family dynamics set against a global backdrop of spies, action, and humor." Entertainment Netflix has released the first trailer for Treason, an espionage thriller set in the world of MI6. The limited series features Charlie Cox as Adam Lawrence, a British intelligence officer thrust into command after a failed assassination attempt against the chief of MI6.
Treason | Official Trailer | Netflix Entertainment Few things have endured in our culture the way Avatar: The Last Airbender has managed to. The series was a major hit when it aired on Nickelodeon from 2005 to 2008, and became even more of a phenomenon when it showed up on Netflix in the midst of the pandemic. Now, Netflix is making a live-action version of the original series, attempting to right the wrongs of the awful 2010 movie adaptation.
Amid this flurry of activity, though, the show's sequel, The Legend of Korra, remains far more divisive. The series, which tells the story of the avatar immediately following Aang, is not nearly as universally beloved as its predecessor, and yet, it's every bit that show's equal. Over the course of four seasons, Korra faced a much more difficult and tumultuous development process, and the episodes that we got delivered and then some. Now, 10 years after it premiered, it's worth considering what made the show work.
The show told a different story from its predecessor The Legend of Korra Image used with permission by copyright holder Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
