Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Netflix Original Movies Best Comedies on Netflix Best Netflix Original Series Best Anime on Netflix Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Fantasy Movies on Netflix Home Entertainment Features Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Is Netflix’s hit show One Piece too faithful to the manga its based on? By David Caballero Close Netflix Netflix’s long-awaited adaptation of Eiichiro Oda’s beloved manga-turned-anime One Piece is finally here, and against all expectations, it’s a surefire hit.
Critics reacted enthusiastically to the show , acknowledging its flaws but praising its many strengths. Equally important was the audience reception, which has been positive enough for the show to debut near the top of Netflix’s 10 most popular movies of the week.
 And considering we live in one of the most divisive times for major IPs, the strong audience reaction to One Piece is quite impressive.
A visual mixed bag It’s all about the essence Damned if you do, damned if you don’t Adapting an anime as silly and self-aware as One Piece was always going to be a daunting and potentially thankless task. Stay too close to the source material and risk accusations of not being polished enough for live-action; veer too far away and provoke the wrath of millions of loyal fans. The show would also have to endure constant variations of the “who is this for?” argument reviewers and viewers throw at the constant live-action adaptations studios and streamers churn out every year. Yet, One Piece did so valiantly, daring to tread its own path and earning praise from both sides of the argument.
Still, one question looms large over the show, and it’s becoming increasingly apparent with the benefit of hindsight. Is One Piece too faithful to its source material? A better question yet is, can something be too faithful? After all, isn’t the purpose of an adaptation to alter these properties and make them better suited for a new medium? But can we do that in today’s climate, where every change is considered a slight against the previously existing fandom? Can an adaptation truly live up to its name? A Man Called Otto is a hit on Netflix. Here are 3 reasons why it’s so popular Watch these 5 movies and TV shows before they leave Netflix in March In the MCU, Marvel’s most important stories are in its Disney+ shows A visual mixed bag Image via Netflix.
Let’s get something straight: One Piece is a good and occasionally great show. It stumbles in the middle but follows the cardinal rule of storytelling: start and end with a bang to leave audiences wanting more. Most impressively, it’s a satisfying watch even for new fans who have never experienced Oda’s manga or anime. Perhaps that is One Piece ‘s greatest strength: it condenses nearly 100 episodes of the long-running anime into 8 hours of live-action without losing sight of what’s important.
Considering this, One Piece can’t be too faithful; how can it, when it modifies and outright cuts numerous side stories to focus on the larger picture? However, none of these changes are major enough to cause fans to complain about cut characters or storylines. But the show often falls victim to what brings down many great adaptations by rehashing, rather than reinterpreting, the source material. Many shots are close to being direct copies of the manga and anime, lacking the visual punch one might expect from an $18 million-an-episode tentpole. Zoro’s pivotal fight against Dracule Mihawk is a near-perfect replica of the anime, and while there is a certain magic in seeing such a classic fight in live-action, Netflix’s version provides nothing the original anime didn’t.
Few, if any, fans are in this expecting a one-to-one reproduction of what they already saw. But this is a flaw inherent to any live-action project; unlike a book, where the reader’s mind does all the heavy lifting, an anime already offers enough visual thrills to make any new version feel redundant. For a live-action to succeed, it must adapt to its new medium, which usually means upping the visuals.
In this aspect, One Piece succeeds with flying colors. The show has a distinctive visual language, largely thanks to its inspired mix of CGI and physical sets. The scenery is lush and vibrant, echoing the anime’s style without looking like a cheap copy. Luffy’s famous Devil Fruit powers also successfully transition to live-action; they look silly and cartoonish, but that’s the point.
Visually, One Piece is a mixed bag. It’s too enamored with its source material to venture on its own, but it triumphantly creates a distinctive and almost cinematic visual language that perfectly enhances its admittedly safe approach. Would One Piece be better had it dared to experiment more with its visuals? It’s hard to say; more people would be angry, that’s for sure. But it might’ve stood out among the sea of weekly competitors, perhaps measuring up against HBO’s brand of prestige television rather than sitting atop Netflix’s long line of run-of-the-mill content.
It’s all about the essence Image via Netflix When adapting something, most fans will say the important thing is to maintain the “essence.” Just what exactly is this essence, though? It varies from project to project and has a different meaning for each fan. For something like One Piece , it’s a sense of charm and unabashed positivity that make the anime and its timeless protagonist, Monkey D. Luffy, such massive icons. And Netflix’s live-action has it in spades. Iñaki Godoy is an instant star as the show’s lead, wisely choosing to embody Luffy’s overwhelming and spirited personality rather than merely acting it. The rest of the cast does brilliantly, too, and One Piece can proudly say there are no weak links among its ranks.
Thus, One Piece avoids the tragic fate that brought down many other unsuccessful adaptations.
Netflix’s own Cowboy Bebop notoriously failed to recapture its source material’s cool and elusive blend of noir and Western. Its much-discussed, usually lampooned, and increasingly struggling adaptation of The Witcher nails the characters but struggles everywhere else and lacks a coherent visual language. And let’s not even go into its derided attempt to bring Death Note into live action.
Recapturing something’s “essence” is far more difficult than imagined.
One Piece ‘s reverence for the source material pays off in this crucial department by understanding what makes it work and effectively translating it into a new medium. Series masterminds Steven Maeda and Matt Owens transfer the anime’s gloriously over-the-top style without compromising its nature; One Piece is as grand as a live-action project can be before descending into ridicule. It admirably walks the fine line between absurdism and genius, dipping one foot on each side without committing to one. It’s a delicate balance that becomes increasingly apparent as the episodes progress and the source material’s more quaint aspects begin to shine.
Between fishmen and disjointed clowns, One Piece can easily succumb to its farcical devices. By remaining self-aware and unashamed of itself, the show emerges victorious where so many others caved.
One Piece is in on the joke; you laugh alongside it but never at it.
Damned if you do, damned if you don’t Netflix Adapting any beloved IP is always a losing game, especially with the divided entertainment landscape we live in today. Releasing anything is a leap of faith, and while it’s easy to disqualify something for being disappointing or outright bad, it’s harder to appreciate the nuances that come with translating something into live action.
One Piece is not perfect and probably could never be; embracing its source material ensured it. However, the show made an empowered choice to exist within its self-imposed confinements, for better and worse. It succeeds as an adaptation but limits itself to forever exist as an underling, rather than a peer, of Oda’s creations.
Think of the most successful live-action adaptations – Harry Potter, The Hunger Games, The Lord of the Rings, Game of Thrones. These franchises exist on their own, standing side by side with the source material that inspired them rather than serving as a mere complement. In fact, they now have exclusive and enduring legacies. How many Game of Thrones fans lived for the show without ever reading a word George R. R. Martin wrote? One Piece will never have that. It will forever exist as a supplement to the manga and the anime, and that’s okay. Not every IP can stand independently from its source material, mainly because not every IP should. Netflix’s One Piece is good for what it is; sure, it could’ve been great, but perhaps greatness is too much to ask from such a delightful show, especially considering the thrill of independence didn’t exactly last for most other franchises who carved paths away from their source materials.
Is One Piece too faithful? Yes, to its ultimate detriment. Was there room for change that would’ve resulted in a bolder, more rewarding adaptation? Yes. In other words, One Piece could’ve been another The Last of Us ; the key aspect here is it chose not to be, which is perfectly valid. Not everything can be great; not everything has to be. Sometimes, “good” is enough. Embracing the “good” might be the way to enjoy things again. God knows we need to.
You can stream all eight episodes of One Piece right now on Netflix.
Editors' Recommendations Forget Loki; Invincible is the best superhero show you’re not watching right now 7 underrated Netflix shows you should be watching The 10 best characters on The Boys, ranked Is Netflix the right home for The Sandman? Enter the world of The Sandman in Netflix’s new trailer Features Netflix Streaming Services Entertainment November has been a great month for movies at Netflix, with the premiere of David Fincher's The Killer, and recent box office hits like Insidious: The Red Door and Spider-Man: Across the Spider-Verse. This week, the new additions include The Impossible, a 2012 survival thriller that has already landed on the list of the 10 most popular movies on Netflix. For younger viewers, Minions is also heating up the charts despite the pending departure of the other films in the franchise at the end of the month.
There's only one holiday weekend left in November, so what's the best way to stay on top of everything new on Netflix? Why, we are, of course. Our list of the best movies on Netflix right now is updated every Friday, even on holiday weekends, so you can easily find something for every movie lover in your life.
Entertainment Summer is long over, and the fall season is in full swing. It's now late 2023, and just about everyone is subscribed to Netflix and Hulu. But would you be surprised if I told you one of the most underrated streaming services around is Tubi? The upstart streamer has tons of new and old TV shows from every decade and every genre imaginable. Want to watch the buzziest series that aired on Max? Tubi has it. Are you feeling nostalgic about that old movie or cartoon you used to watch as a kid in the '80s or '90s? Chances are, Tubi has it.
Tubi has so much content that it can be hard to choose which shows and films are worth your time. Digital Trends is here to help you sort out which ones are worth watching. Even though the streaming service is free, time is valuable, and no one wants to waste it watching subpar content.
Entertainment Rather than waiting for the Thanksgiving holiday weekend, Apple TV+ and Netflix dropped two of their biggest shows of the fall this week. Netflix's The Crown kicked off its sixth and final season with four new episodes, while the Apple TV+ Godzilla-adjacent series Monarch: Legacy of Monster, dropped its first two episodes this week, with new episodes arriving weekly thereafter. Also this week, Scott Pilgrim Takes Off hits Netflix, while Max gets in on the act this week by premiering the second season of Julia.
Netflix, Amazon Prime Video, Hulu, Max, Apple TV+, Disney+, Paramount+, and Peacock still have new shows coming for the rest of November, including a handful arriving next week. But if you've been thinking about cutting back on your streaming bill, then perhaps you should consider signing up for the ad-supported tiers. In the meantime, keep reading for our weekly roundup of the best new shows to stream.
When you're done here, check out the best new movies to stream this week, as well as the best shows on Netflix, best shows on Hulu, best shows on Amazon Prime Video, and best shows on Disney+.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
