Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Netflix Original Movies Best Comedies on Netflix Best Netflix Original Series Best Anime on Netflix Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Fantasy Movies on Netflix Home Entertainment Guides Like Suits? Then watch these great Netflix TV shows By Blair Marnell Close Universal Few series have had a bigger summer than Suits , despite the fact that the show came to an end four years ago. Who could have predicted that this USA Network original series would be more popular in its streaming afterlife than it ever was before? For most of this summer, Suits has dominated the top 10 shows on Netflix and it has even placed highly among Nielsen’s streaming rankings, which factor in every major streamer. It certainly helps that eight out of nine seasons of Suits are on Netflix — that’s 124 episodes of legal dramedy, romance, and office intrigue that are just waiting for you to enjoy them.
The Lincoln Lawyer (2021-Present) Better Call Saul (2015-2022) Florida Man (2023-Present) The problem with finding more shows like Suits is that there just aren’t many series like it. USA Network had a specific tone in mind when Suits joined a lineup that included Burn Notice , Royal Pains , and White Collar.
 There are plenty of legal dramas on TV, but what other show lets its viewers in on its secrets in the way that Suits did when Harvey Specter (Gabriel Macht) relied on his unlicensed legal associate, Michael James Ross (Patrick J. Adams), to close a case? That dynamic was unique to Suits itself. Having said that, there are at least three shows on Netflix that should appeal to fans of Suits , and we’re sharing them with you right now.
The Lincoln Lawyer (2021-Present) Netflix / Netflix David E. Kelley has a lot of experience creating legal shows that mix comedy and drama, like Boston Legal and The Practice.
 Kelley’s current show, The Lincoln Lawyer , doesn’t rely quite as much as comedy as his previous series, but there are definitely some quirky parts in this legal drama. It’s based on Michael Connelly’s Lincoln Lawyer novels, with Manuel Garcia-Rulfo in the leading role as Mickey Haller.
The 10 most popular TV shows on Netflix right now 3 underrated shows on Netflix you need to watch in November Like the hit Netflix series Bodies? Then watch these three shows just like it Why is Mickey known as the Lincoln Lawyer? Because he doesn’t have a law office — he operates out of a Lincoln Navigator, which is driven by his personal driver, Izzy Letts (Jazz Raycole). Both of Mickey’s ex-wives are still involved with his life. Ex-wife No. 2, Lorna Crane (Becki Newton), is now his legal aide, while his first wife, Maggie McPherson (Neve Campbell), is a prosecutor who has clashed with Mickey in and out of court. This series is more serialized than Suits , but each season adapts Connelly’s novels and gives viewers some closure between seasons before a new case begins.
Watch The Lincoln Lawyer on Netflix.
Better Call Saul (2015-2022) AMC Better Call Saul is not really a legal drama, even though it’s lead character, Jimmy McGill (Bob Odenkirk), is technically a lawyer. Instead, it’s more of a crime drama. This show is both a prequel and a sequel to Breaking Bad , and it reveals how a good-natured con man like Jimmy evolved into the criminal lawyer known as Saul Goodman, as well as what happened to him after he was exposed. Fans of Suits may appreciate that this show has many genuinely funny moments without slipping into farce, and that Jimmy does have a tendency to scheme his way to victory in and out of court.
Better Call Saul could also be considered a dark mirror of Suits , since the romantic relationship at the heart of this show goes in a completely different direction. On Suits , Rachel Zane (Meghan Markle) inspired Mike to be a better man because she was a truly good person at heart. In this show, Jimmy unintentionally drags Kim Wexler (Rhea Seehorn) down to his level, to the point where she completely loses sight of who she is. And that’s just one aspect of a show that still ranks as one of the best TV series of all time.
Watch Better Call Saul on Netflix.
Florida Man (2023-Present) Netflix In terms of a lighter tone, Florida Man may be the closest show to Suits on this list. Édgar Ram írez stars as Mike Valentine, a former cop who has fallen a long way since his time on the police force. Mike finds himself working for his bookie, Moss Yankov (Emory Cohen), to pay off his own massive debt when he is called upon to return to Florida and find Delly West (Abbey Lee), a woman who fled to the Sunshine State to escape her mobster boyfriend.
Despite Mike’s attempt to keep a low profile, his return home leads to a fair share of online humiliation as he reunites with his father, Sonny Valentine (Anthony LaPaglia), and his ex-wife, Iris (Lex Scott Davis). Mike also discovers that there’s far more to Delly’s disappearance than he initially suspects.
Watch Florida Man on Netflix.
Editors' Recommendations 3 movies and TV shows like the hit Max series Julia you should watch right now 6 best TV shows you need to watch in December Like the hit Netflix show All The Light We Cannot See? Then watch these 5 best WWII dramas 3 Netflix comedies like Bill Burr’s Old Dads you should watch right now The best British TV shows on Netflix Netflix Streaming Services Entertainment Earlier this month, the Spanish teen drama Elite returned for its seventh season, and it quickly ranked among the most popular shows on Netflix. An eighth and final season is already in the works, which makes this one of the longest-running shows on Netflix.
The secret of Elite's success is that it isn't just a teen drama. It's also a murder mystery that often jumps forward in time to reveal that cast members have died, before returning to the present where viewers witness the unfolding drama before things reach the bitter end for some. So don't get too attached to your favorite characters on the show. Everyone's time eventually runs out, even if they just graduate or move to another school.
Entertainment Bodies | Official Trailer | Netflix Just over week after it premiered, the new sci-fi series Bodies is among the most popular shows on Netflix. The series is based on the 2014 Bodies comic by writer Si Spencer and artists Dean Ormston, Tula Lotay, Meghan Hetrick, and Phil Winslade. But don't worry about needing to catch up on your reading. Everything you need to know is in the show itself.
Entertainment The holiday season is closing in on us quickly. Before you know it, you’ll be cleaning up after a big Thanksgiving turkey day and prepping for Christmas or the particular holiday you celebrate. This is also the time many of us slow down, relax, recharge, and spend quality time with the family before shifting back into full gear for the new year. It’s also the perfect time to immerse yourself in a new or returning show.
When it comes to TV shows you need to watch in November, they mostly include shows that are returning with new seasons. Notably, there’s a multi-Emmy-winning series about the Royal Family that is finally coming to an end. There’s also a new show based on a popular 2010 cult classic movie and a long-awaited reality show based on Netflix’s most popular foreign series that features the biggest cast and largest single cash prize ever in the history of the genre.
Invincible season 2 (November 3) Invincible - Season 2 Teaser Trailer | Prime Video Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
