Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix F1 Live Stream Stranger Things Season 5 Best New Movies Most Popular Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney+ UFC Live Stream Best Movies on Disney+ Home Entertainment Features The best performances on The Crown, ranked By Joe Allen Close Over the course of its fairly lengthy run on Netflix, The Crown has proven to be one of the streamer’s best series. Telling the story of Queen Elizabeth II starting with the earliest days of her reign and continuing as she ages through history, the series has been remarkably successful at melding real-world events with an ample dose of fiction.
10. John Lithgow as Winston Churchill 9. Erin Doherty As Princess Anne 8. Tobias Menzies as Prince Phillip 7. Gillian Anderson as Margaret Thatcher 6. Jared Harris as King George VI 5. Olivia Colman as Queen Elizabeth II 4. Vanessa Kirby as Princess Margaret 3. Emma Corrin as Princess Diana 2. Claire Foy as Queen Elizabeth II 1. Josh O’Connor as Prince Charles Along the way, The Crown has also featured a remarkable cadre of performers who have each more than proven their skill at inhabiting these people who have shaped recent history. Choosing a list of the best Crown performances is like picking a favorite child, and yet, we’ve managed to narrow it down to our 10 favorites.
10. John Lithgow as Winston Churchill The Crown Season 1 Alex Bailey / Netflix Casting American John Lithgow as the most famous prime minister in British history seems like a recipe for disaster, but it turned out to be a major success. Lithgow’s version of the character is older, less sturdy, and exists primarily as a guide to young Queen Elizabeth as she learns what it means to fulfill her duties.
Is Final Destination the best horror franchise we have right now? Why Jon Pertwee’s Doctor Who is the best version of the character ever 20 years later, The Rundown is still The Rock’s best action-hero role The queen’s sessions with prime ministers have been a constant in every season of The Crown , but the fact that the show starts with such a vivid Churchill makes it all feel even more cinematically fulfilling.
9. Erin Doherty As Princess Anne Image used with permission by copyright holder Erin Doherty may get more value from her minutes on screen than any other actor in the history of The Crown.
 She’s not a major part of the story, and yet, every time we see Anne, it’s easy to feel the urge to follow her out of the scene and into whatever else she may be up to.
Anne has her own issues, but those are largely kept off-screen, and Doherty is tasked with bringing that context into her onscreen portrayal. Anne is the only one of Elizabeth’s children who seems to really understand the world, and Doherty’s performance brings her to brilliant life.
8. Tobias Menzies as Prince Phillip Image used with permission by copyright holder Matt Smith gets more to do as Prince Philip than Tobias Menzies, and he’s genuinely great, but Menzies brings a kind of aged brilliance to the role. We understand this version of Prince Philip to be settled in his marriage, but feeling unfulfilled by his life more generally.
It’s a fascinating, morose performance, and one that Menzies pulls off brilliantly. He remains Elizabeth’s steadfast partner, but also seems to be searching for a purpose of his own inside a world determined to remove any chance of agency from him.
7. Gillian Anderson as Margaret Thatcher Des Willie / Netflix Margaret Thatcher is another British historical figure that doesn’t necessarily scream sympathetic. After all, she’s remembered today for her brutality toward the Irish and her harsh views on public welfare. Gillian Anderson manages to bring a spark of humanity to the character, helping us understand the way her posture was born and how she came to view the world the way she did.
Is that portrayal of Thatcher entirely responsible? Maybe not, but it certainly proved that Anderson was doing far more than just imitating the famous prime minister.
6. Jared Harris as King George VI Image used with permission by copyright holder Jared Harris is only in the first two episodes of The Crown , but it’s hard to overstate how crucial his performance is to everything that comes after. Playing King George in his last days, we immediately come to understand how fond he is of his two daughters, and how burdened he has been by the duties of the monarchy.
King George’s legacy weighs heavily on Elizabeth, and it’s his death that forces her to become Queen long before her time. What we’ll most remember, though, is how much he seemed to genuinely love his children, even as he forced them to take on a role he never wanted himself.
5. Olivia Colman as Queen Elizabeth II Image used with permission by copyright holder Having to inherit the show from a strong cast was no easy task, but Olivia Colman took over as Queen Elizabeth at the perfect time in her own career. Coming off an Oscar win, everyone knew that Colman would be able to take on the role, and she did so with aplomb.
Colman’s Elizabeth was a natural evolution of Claire Foy’s, a character who is older and wiser, but also more stubborn and less open to input. Much of the drama moves away from Elizabeth and toward her children during Colman’s run, but that only made Colman’s ability to hold the screen all the more impressive.
4. Vanessa Kirby as Princess Margaret Image used with permission by copyright holder Every era of the royal family has had a wild child and Vanessa Kirby’s Princess Margaret set the template for what those archetypes would look like. Kirby’s Margaret is a perfect opposite for Foy’s Elizabeth; she’s all sharp edges and big feelings, while Foy’s Elizabeth keeps everything as close to the vest as possible.
Kirby exploded out of The Crown to become a major star, and with good reason. She made Margaret feel real and alive, even when she and Elizabeth were at complete cross purposes.
3. Emma Corrin as Princess Diana Des Willie One of the more dazzling performances The Crown ever gave us came from Emma Corrin, who was such a natural match for Princess Diana that it was easy to forget that you weren’t watching a documentary.
Corrin plays Diana in her younger years, as she transitions from an overwhelmed teenager to a mother who will eventually become this family’s great undoing. Diana was the character many Crown fans had long been waiting for, and thanks to Corrin, she did not disappoint.
2. Claire Foy as Queen Elizabeth II Image used with permission by copyright holder The Crown feels like an institution now, but when it first started, it sat squarely Foy’s shoulders. Foy, an almost total unknown when the show debuted, was tasked with playing Elizabeth during her youngest years, and it’s her performance that has been the basis for the rest of the show’s success.
Foy was compelling from the second she showed up on screen, showcasing the way this burden fell on Elizabeth by chance when she was still quite young, and how the queen ultimately rose to that challenge.
1. Josh O’Connor as Prince Charles Alex Bailey / Netflix You aren’t supposed to like Prince Charles. Of all the members of the royal family, he’s the easiest to hate, and for what should be fairly obvious reasons. And yet, thanks to Josh O’Connor, it’s easy enough to understand him, even if you don’t get all the way to liking him.
O’Connor has all of Charles’s mannerisms down, but what he really nails is the way that Charles feels totally boxed in by a mother who has become an icon by the time he has come of age, and who will continue to loom over him throughout most of his adult life.
You can stream all 5 seasons of The Crown on Netflix.
Editors' Recommendations Forget Loki; Invincible is the best superhero show you’re not watching right now Super Bowl 2024 halftime show: who’s performing? Who is the best Spider-Man actor? All the Spider-Men, ranked 8 best Hulu true crime shows and movies to watch in September Who is the best Harley? All the Harley Quinns, ranked Features Entertainment The Night of the 12th (2022) | Trailer | Dominik Moll 2023 has been a year like no other for movies, and in this instance, that's a good thing. The COVID nightmare years of 2020 and most of 2021 seem to be finally left in the past, and a diverse slate of movies have been released that have captured the public's attention. From the horror-comedy pleasures of M3GAN to the animated romp The Super Mario Bros. Movie to the phenomenon known as Barbenheimer, there's been no shortage of cinematic offerings to watch and write about.
Entertainment Shortly before the SAG-AFTRA strike, James Gunn's highly awaited DC reboot Superman: Legacy cast Rachel Brosnahan as Lois Lane, Superman's eternal companion and love interest. Best known for her Emmy-winning role in Prime Video's comedy The Marvelous Mrs. Maisel, Brosnahan will star opposite David Corenswet in Gunn's version of the Man of Steel's story, set to release, at least for now, on July 25, 2025.
Lois Lane is a crucial character in Superman's lore, but it's also incredibly hard to get right. Many have tried to do justice by the Pulitzer Prize-winning journalist, but very few have succeeded. Indeed, Lois can be a very thankless role if improperly written, especially because some of her main traits - near-blind ambition, resourcefulness, determination, and gumption - aren't easy to depict. However, that hasn't stopped multiple shows and movies from using her, with mixed results. Whether in a lead or a supporting role, Lois is memorable enough to stand out, cementing her status as one of DC's leading figures.
28. Juliet Landau Entertainment We live in strange times. Elon Musk runs Twitter like it is his own personal blog. Actors and writers are striking against unfair working conditions to an uncaring, streaming-obsessed studio system. And the phenomenon known as "Barbenheimer" is finally upon us, threatening to overtake all of social media and pop culture as we know it.
Barbenheimer is the result of two movies, Greta Gerwig's feminist comedy Barbie and Christopher Nolan's somber nuclear war drama Oppenheimer, completely different in subject matter, style, and tone, being released on the same day. While the fever pitch of Barbenheimer is a first, the concept of counterprogramming is, of course, nothing new in Hollywood. The following list is a compilation of two wildly different movies released at the same time that make great double features to watch as well. These five movie duos, from superheroes and musically-inclined wedding parties to animated ape-men and post-modern techno-thrillers, are noteworthy antecedents to Barbenheimer and also a great way to pass the time.
The Dark Knight and Mamma Mia! (July 18, 2008) Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
