Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Upcoming Nintendo Switch Games Connect Nintendo Switch to TV Free Nintendo Switch Games Cancel Nintendo Switch Online Best Nintendo Switch Games Charge Nintendo Switch Controller Nintendo Switch Accessories Nintendo Switch Controllers Nintendo Switch vs Switch Lite Home Gaming Deals Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Nintendo Switch Black Friday deals: Consoles, games, and more By Briley Kenney Close Digital Trends The Black Friday and Cyber Week deals have dropped, earlier than ever this year it seems. Retailers are ready to get this thing started, but that’s good news for you — all of us, really — because the competition means we’re going to see some fantastically-low prices this year. While everyone else is shopping the best Black Friday deals for TVs, computers, smart home goods, and more, some of us are on the lookout for great gaming console deals, specifically on the Nintendo Switch. If that’s you, listen up, because we’ve scoured the shopping world for some truly amazing Nintendo Switch Black Friday deals, some you can even shop as early as today. We’ve found deals on the console itself, including bundles, popular games, and even some accessories. So, put down that gamepad, kick up your feet, and let’s get ready to grind out some levels.
The best Nintendo Switch Black Friday deals The best Nintendo Switch game Black Friday deals The best Nintendo Switch accessory Black Friday deals The best Nintendo Switch Black Friday deals Nintendo One of the top deals to shop is Best Buy’s bundle that includes the as a full game download, plus three months of Switch Online membership for just $300. Normally, the Switch does not come with a game and it certainly does not come with three months of online for free. Mario Kart alone is worth $50, on sale, so you’re saving at least that with the bundle, plus the $8 for the online membership.
Of course, there are a few other fantastic Nintendo Switch console deals available too: Save on everything from laptops and tablets, to coffee makers and air purifiers, and a whole host of Apple tech like iPad, Apple Watch and even the latest M3 MacBooks, as well as smart home essentials like the Amazon Echo and smart bulbs.
Best new Nintendo Switch Black Friday deals Nintendo Switch with Mario Kart 8 Deluxe (Digital) and 3-Months Online Membership — Nintendo Switch OLED (white) — Best refurbished Nintendo Switch Black Friday deals Nintendo Switch Lite Geek Squad Refurbished — Nintendo Switch OLED Geek Squad Refurbished — Nintendo Switch OLED The Legend of Zelda: TotK Geek Squad Refurbished — If you’re not sold on the Nintendo Switch and want something a little more powerful, you might also consider Black Friday Xbox Series X deals or Black Friday Xbox Series S deals.
The best Nintendo Switch game Black Friday deals Nintendo Of course, you’re going to need some games to play with that brand new Nintendo Switch, even if you buy a bundle deal — more games gives you more of a selection. Here are all of the best Nintendo Switch game Black Friday deals out there: New Super Mario Bros U Deluxe — Nintendo Switch Sports — Mario Kart 8 Deluxe — Octopath Traveler II — Pokemon Legends Arceus — Super Mario 3D World + Bowser’s Fury — Super Smash Bros Ultimate — The Legend of Zelda: Tears of the Kingdom — The best Nintendo Switch accessory Black Friday deals Shutterstock / catinsyrup / Nintendo Accessories are next on the list including protective cases, storage expansion cards, and much more. If you want to talk to your buddies while online you can check out these Black Friday gaming headset deals , just know the Switch requires you to use the online app to voice chat.
Here are all of the best Nintendo Switch accessory Black Friday deals: Insignia universal go case for Switch/Switch OLED — PDP multi-screen protector kit — PowerA Joy-Con charging dock — Hori Split Pad Pro handheld controller for Switch — PowerA enhanced wireless controller — Don’t see anything you like? We’ve also found some great PS5 Black Friday deals , including a discount on the brand-new PS5 ‘Slim’.
Editors' Recommendations 75 best Amazon Black Friday deals on laptops, TVs, Apple, and more Best Black Friday gaming laptop deals: Cheapest prices today Xbox Series X Black Friday deals: Consoles, games, and accessories Razer Black Friday deals: Save on gaming laptops, keyboards and more Best Razer gaming laptop Black Friday deals worth shopping now Deals Nintendo Nintendo Switch Computing There's no need to wait for Black Friday deals because retailers like Dell have already rolled out some of their offers for the shopping holiday. Whether you're planning to buy a new laptop, monitor, or desktop computer, Dell surely has something that will fit your budget. We've rounded up the best Dell Black Friday deals that you can shop right now to help you decide quickly on your purchases, since you need to hurry to make sure that you're able to take advantage of the bargains. Like HP laptop Black Friday deals and Amazon Black Friday laptop deals, these discounts could end at any time. Any of these prices may return to normal at any moment, so act fast.
Top 3 Dell Black Friday deals Dell S2721QS 4K monitor -- $240, was $330 If you're looking for monitor deals to upgrade an outdated display, you should consider the Dell S2721QS 4K monitor. You'll be getting sharp details and vivid colors on its 27-inch screen with 4K Ultra HD resolution, and you'll also experience less stuttering and screen tearing with AMD's FreeSync technology. Your neck and eyes will stay comfortable with the help of the monitor's height-adjustable stand and Dell's ComfortView Plus that reduces harmful blue light emissions.
Gaming Gamers who have been planning to buy a gaming headset from Black Friday deals will be able to enjoy discounts on devices made by Logitech, Corsair, and many more -- but you have to act fast because stocks may sell out quickly. Whether you just need a basic device to better enjoy the audio of your favorite games or a premium one that will give you the communications advantage when battling with your teammates in online multiplayer matches, there's surely something for you out there. If you take advantage of the Black Friday PS5 deals or Black Friday Xbox Series S deals, you'll definitely want a headset to chat with your buds. Of course, to help you find that perfect offer, we've gathered our top picks below, and if something catches your eye, proceed with the transaction as soon as possible, as the deal may end sooner than you think.
Best Black Friday Wired Gaming Headset Deals There are various reasons why gamers prefer wired gaming headsets, including their relatively lower prices compared to wireless gaming headsets and generally better audio quality because their cables support higher bandwidth with less interference. They're also fantastic if you've grabbed one of the Black Friday Xbox Series X deals.
Gaming Gamers who need to replace their aging screens should take advantage of this year's Black Friday deals for a new gaming monitor, as there are discounts offered for displays made by some of the most trusted brands like Samsung, HP, Dell, and Lenovo. Among the most important things to consider for your purchase are size, resolution, and refresh rate -- and of course, if the price fits your budget. There's no shortage of options that you can find online from the different retailers, but you help you make a decision quickly, we've gathered our top picks below. We've organized these monitors by refresh rate. If you prioritize resolution, consider checking out the best 4K monitor Black Friday deals or 5K monitor Black Friday deals.
Best 165Hz gaming monitor Black Friday deals A monitor's refresh rate determines how often the images on the screen are updated -- the higher the refresh rate, the smoother your gameplay will be. A 165Hz refresh rate is just above our computer monitor buying guide's recommended range of 120Hz to 144Hz, and it's great for gamers on a budget as you'll still be getting proper support for your video games' higher frame rates. Size and resolution are other factors to consider though, so you should be going for the monitor that your budget allows.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
