Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix F1 Live Stream Stranger Things Season 5 Best New Movies Most Popular Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney+ UFC Live Stream Best Movies on Disney+ Home Entertainment Features The Night Agent season 1’s ending, explained By Christine Persaud Close The Night Agent, one of the newest shows on Netflix , is admittedly centered around a played-out spy trope. But the twists, turns, and movie-like action sequences throughout the 10-episode first season of the action thriller make it a worthy watch.
What The Night Agent is about The betrayal Themes of death and destruction Sins of the father The explosive end How does The Night Agent end? Curious about how the show’s first season ends? Digital Trends has all the spoilers about what happened in the season finale and what that means for a possible second season.
What The Night Agent is about Image used with permission by copyright holder Peter Sutherland (Gabriel Bosso) is not a night agent: he just answers the phones for them. His job is to sit in a windowless room in the basement of the White House, night after night, going through FBI reports and waiting for a phone to ring, indicating that a night agent needs help. It never does. But Peter is paying his dues, hoping to one day be able to do much more.
Silo season 1’s ending, explained The Flash’s ending, explained The Super Mario Bros. Movie’s ending, explained That day comes when the phone finally rings, and it’s a terrified young woman, eventually revealed as Rose (Luciane Buchanan), on the other end. She has the right code words, but has no idea who she’s calling nor why. She has just learned that her aunt and uncle are spies (night agents) — and not in acquisitions as they have always told her — and been hunted down. In a last-ditch effort to save themselves and their unsuspecting niece, they give her this magic number to call. Sadly, they are killed before she can ask them more.
Dan Power / Netflix What ensues from there is a cat-and-mouse game between two lethal assassins who are after Peter and Rose, the FBI, and White House officials, including Peter’s boss and confidante, Diane (Hong Chau). Peter is tasked with protecting Rose until she makes her statement, but he decides to put it all on the line when Rose reveals that she heard her aunt and uncle talk about there being a mole in the White House. Who can they trust, and what is the mole planning? The more Peter and Rose look into the case of her aunt and uncle’s death, along with a train bombing Peter had saved passengers from a year prior and the sudden murder of the head of the FBI (Robert Patrick), the more puzzle pieces they uncover. And the more danger they find themselves in.
It’s revealed early on that Vice President Redfield (Christopher Shyer), along with a shady CEO named Wick (Ben Cotton), had something to do with bombing. What’s worse, they are likely connected to the murders as well.
The betrayal Dan Power / Netflix Shows like The Night Agent are often predictable, and whether fans are able to pinpoint the good guys and the bad ones, when the truth is revealed, everything comes crashing down.
All it takes are three words for a light bulb to go off for Peter. Diane references Peter’s “trooper friend,” who Rose is in hiding with, only for Peter to realize he never told her his friend was a trooper. Peter now knows that despite his beliefs, Diane was in on the plot the whole time. His closest ally and friend can’t be trusted.
Now on the run after magically managing to escape from The White House, Peter arrives at a pier in the nick of time to save Rose from being strangled to death by the cold-blooded assassin Dale (Phoenix Raei). A fight ensues, with Dale ending up dead in the water (literally) and his partner Ellen (Eve Harlow) screaming in agony when she discovers his body.
Themes of death and destruction Dan Power / Netflix As the plot thickens, The Night Agent showcases an interesting juxtaposition between heroes and the death and destruction that’s often par for the course in making them such. It starts with Rose’s aunt and uncle. It continues with others, like Loma (Gabrielle Rose), the former engineer who helps point Peter and Rose in the right direction. It turns out that Colin (Andre Anthony), who has a twin named Matteo, was the hired bomber and the real target of the train bombing was someone above ground, not on the train.
Pour one out for Peter’s sweet friend and former partner Cisco (Curtis Lum) as well, who is killed by Ellen after trying to escape with Rose. Especially heartbreaking, however, is the death of American hero Erik Monks (D.B. Woodside), a rehabilitated secret service agent who again proved himself a hero, dying to protect others.
He dies at the hands of Ellen as well, who is on a rampage as she looks to avenge Dale’s death. She’s finally eliminated when pushed to her death by Rose in yet another valiant act of being in the right place at the right time and saving Peter from almost certain death. “I owe you my life,” she once told him, a sentiment he rightfully reciprocated.
The most gut-wrenching scene about death, however, didn’t actually lead to one. When Wick tells Diane his employee is seeking to find and kill Matteo/Colin, who had kidnapped Vice President Redfield’s daughter, Maddie (Sarah Desjardins), Diane coldly asks “just him?” He looks up questioningly, saying he can “change the order” if she wants. Diane’s blank stare says it all: she’s willing to kill Maddie to get rid of the young woman as a threat to the administration (but arguably more so to her own reputation).
Diane proves just as cold and calculating as her two co-conspirators, furthering the sympathy fans feel for the underappreciated Peter. She only hired Peter as a contingency plan, knowing he’d be the perfect fall guy if they ever needed one. His father was a traitor too, after all. It’s a bleak realization for Peter, who viewed Diane not only as a boss, but also a friend.
Sins of the father Dan Power / Netflix That brings us to an overarching theme of The Night Agent , which comes to a head in the finale: the concept of fatherhood, and more specifically, fractured fatherhood. Peter went through his adult life defending his father, an agent himself who was accused of betraying the American government.
Maddie views her father as a monster, happy to oblige her kidnapper’s plans if it means bringing him down. Young Secret Service agent Chelsea (Fola Evans-Akingbola) initially pushes back against Monks and his antiquated ways, but he eventually becomes a friend and mentor who dies before she truly gets to know him. Later, her boss and another mentor agent, Ben Almora (Enrique Murciano), is also shot and killed.
In the final episode, aptly called “Fathers,” the plot thickens, with these fatherly relationships paying the ultimate price.
The explosive end Dan Power / Netflix After finally unearthing the plot and the location of the next bomb with the help of Monks and Chelsea, Peter and Rose force Diane at gunpoint to sneak them into Camp David. The plan is to kill not only the initial target, Omar Zadar (Adam Tsekhman), who Redfield ironically believes is a terrorist the U.S. government should not be allied with (Wick is looking out for his own personal business interests), but also President Travers (Kari Matchett). Diane is seriously wounded and Almora killed. Rose uses her cybersecurity skills to bring back the conveniently down coms so they can warn the president.
Chelsea is on the case too, noticing new agents aboard their plane carrying suspicious black briefcases. Upon arrival, Vice President Redfield cowardly heads to the basement of the building, dragging Maddie along with him, giving Chelsea the opportunity to spring into action. She locates the bomb and warns everyone to evacuate immediately. It works and everyone, including the President, is safe … for now.
President Travers is about to board the plane to presumed safety, but Peter grabs her and holds a gun to her head, screaming at the agents to check the plane because there’s a bomb inside. The President, terrified, intuits that Peter might be telling the truth and orders them to check. The moment is intense: Peter looks like a crazed man threatening to assassinate the president. He tells her he doesn’t want to hurt her and “loves his country.” It strikes a chord, and you can see that while President Travers is terrified, she believes him.
Sure enough, there’s a bomb aboard and a second, massive explosion occurs. Meanwhile, back at Camp David, Redfield is shocked to see not only Chelsea’s face, but that of his daughter’s, both of whom survived. He eventually let Maddie leave the room to save himself from her threats of exposing him after the fact, and now he knows it’s over.
Fast-forward and Peter wants to keep his name out of the news. He does not want the attention or a medal for his bravery. President Travers understands, but tells him to name anything he wants. Of course, he wants to know the truth about his father.
How does The Night Agent end? Dan Power / Netflix President Travers sends Peter back to that dark, dank room where the story began. He opens a laptop to see video from his father’s interrogation. To his dismay, his father admits to everything. He even looks into the camera and says, ‘I’m sorry,” as though he knew his son would someday see it.
Travers tells Peter that his father had agreed to become a double agent for the U.S. government to right his wrongs, but was killed by an assassin before he could proceed with the plan. The assassin was killed years later, so there’s no vengeance left for Peter. But there is a job offer. “I think we’ve been wasting your talents in that room,” she tells him. Does he want the opportunity to be on the other end of the phone? The look in his eyes says it all. He’s ready.
Peter says his goodbyes to Rose (somewhere along the line, these two began a romance), promising to call her as soon as he’s allowed, then hops aboard a plane. Peter has officially been promoted from glorified 911 operator to an official night agent. What’s the top-secret task and where is he headed? We don’t know yet. But fans are hoping for a season 2 to find out.
Stream all 10 episodes of The Night Agent on Netflix.
Editors' Recommendations The Night of the 12th is one of 2023’s best movies Indiana Jones and the Dial of Destiny’s ending, explained Renfield’s ending, explained Dungeons & Dragons: Honor Among Thieves’ ending, explained Yellowjackets season 2 episode 1’s shocking ending, explained Features Entertainment Servant’s final season was emotional, horrifying, and heartbreaking all in one. Apple TV+ wrapped up the twisted and disturbing Alfred Hitchcock-like M. Night Shyamalan story, one of the first Apple TV+ original series, in a way that seemed rushed yet also satisfying.
The story begins when a married couple enlists the help of a young woman named Leanne (Nell Tiger Free) to care for their infant son. As revealed in previous seasons, however, Jericho sadly perished after being accidentally left in the car on a hot night. His mother Dorothy (Lauren Ambrose), stricken and catatonic with grief, was given a lifelike doll to help her cope, a radical new form of therapy. But she eventually repressed the memory of her son’s death altogether, believing the doll to be a real baby. Then, something weird happened. When Leanne entered their lives, the doll became real.
Entertainment Warning: this article contains major spoilers for season 1 of The Last of Us (2023).
In the season 1 finale of HBO’s The Last of Us, Joel (Pedro Pascal) and Ellie (Bella Ramsey) finally reach the destination they’ve been journeying toward ever since they met. Before they make their final trek to the Salt Lake City hospital where the Fireflies have made their new base, though, Joel asks Ellie whether she wants to turn back. Ellie, in response, tells him that they’ve both lost too much to not finish what they’ve started. She adds that it will only be after they’ve met with the Fireflies and her immunity has been used to create a cure that she and Joel will be able to truly build a new life together.
Entertainment Warning: this article contains major spoilers for 65 (2023).
65’s story is fairly simple. Set “prior to the advent of mankind,” the sci-fi film follows Mills (Adam Driver), a for-hire pilot from a distant world who ends stranded on an uncharted planet after his ship is hit by an unexpected asteroid storm. With all of his cryogenically asleep passengers presumed dead, Mills briefly considers killing himself in 65’s opening minutes before he discovers that one of his passengers, a little girl named Koa (Ariana Greenblatt), survived their crash.
What is 65 about? After waking Koa up, Mills takes it upon himself to journey with her to their ship’s emergency escape vessel, which crash-landed over a dozen kilometers away on a distant mountain. Unfortunately for Mills and Koa, viewers quickly discover that they haven’t crash-landed on just any planet, but a prehistoric Earth that is still populated by dinosaurs. As a result, the duo’s escape from Earth doesn't end up being nearly as easy as they would have liked.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
