Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Netflix Original Movies Best Comedies on Netflix Best Netflix Original Series Best Anime on Netflix Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Fantasy Movies on Netflix Home Entertainment Reviews The Sandman review: dreamy adaptation exceeds expectations By Rick Marshall Close There’s been no shortage of skeptics when it came to The Sandman , Netflix’s adaptation of Neil Gaiman’s fantastic comic-book saga revolving around Morpheus, the lord of dreams.
Widely regarded as one of the greatest series ever published, Gaiman’s comic is a massive, expertly crafted narrative that spans myriad planes of existence and encompasses a wide swath of characters, yet somehow remains powerfully human and familiar in its themes and the mythology that informs it. Efforts to adapt The Sandman began more than two decades ago, with a multitude of starts, stops, and years spent in limbo leading many to believe the best fans could hope for is the sort of messy, soulless translation that typically results from troubled, long-developing projects.
And yet, amazingly, The Sandman delivers a surprisingly authentic adaptation of Gaiman’s saga, weaving some of the comic’s most memorable story threads together in a busy (but never rushed) 10-episode season that introduces many of the characters, concepts, and lore that made its source material so enthralling.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Developed by Gaiman, David S. Goyer (the Dark Knight trilogy), and Allan Heinberg ( Wonder Woman ), The Sandman casts Tom Sturridge ( Orphans ) as Dream, a.k.a. Morpheus, one of seven siblings known as the Endless who embody the basic primal forces of existence.
 The series finds Morpheus, the ruler of the dreamscape where imagination, nightmares, and inspiration are nurtured, imprisoned by a human hoping to capture his sister, Death. Held captive for more than a century, Morpheus eventually escapes, only to find that his kingdom has changed dramatically in his absence, forcing him to embark on a far-reaching quest to reassert control over his realm.
7 things the MCU should do in a revised Multiverse saga Bodies is one of Netflix’s most popular shows right now. Here’s why you should watch it 10 best movie superhero costumes, ranked Casting Morpheus was always going to be a tough task, but Sturridge and the show’s creative team do an exceptional job of delivering audiences a live-action version of the character that feels faithful to Gaiman’s vision for him not just visually, but in his mannerisms, tone, and relationship to the characters around him, too. Sturridge presents Morpheus’ detached, otherworldly nature perfectly, and effortlessly pivots from quiet observation to godly gravitas as moments demand.
The Sandman surrounds Sturridge with plenty of additional casting choices that feel just as inspired, too.
Image used with permission by copyright holder As sinister, toothy-eyed nightmare The Corinthian, Boyd Holbrook’s performance is as fascinating as it is terrifying, and the Vengeance actor delivers one of the show’s standout supporting performances. Just as memorable is Harry Potter franchise actor David Thewlis’ portrayal of the tragic, tortured criminal John Dee, whose fractured sanity and possession of a powerful artifact from Morpheus’ realm combine to deliver one of the season’s most disturbing episodes — a story lifted almost directly from the comics.
Over the course of the season, The Sandman finds some creative ways to craft a somewhat linear narrative out of Gaiman’s saga, which often took detours into standalone tales that would reveal their importance much later in the over-arching story. The Netflix series attempts to do the same, but accelerates the slow drip of these subplots, connecting them to one another and the main narrative earlier and more overtly than their source material.
Image used with permission by copyright holder One such story arc has Morpheus spend the day with Death, portrayed extremely well by Kirby Howell-Baptiste ( Why Women Kill ). The series makes smart — and in some cases, powerfully dramatic — use of their interaction as she goes about her duties ushering people into whatever comes next, and does so while exploring Morpheus’ relationship to humanity and his siblings. The story also becomes a convenient segue to several other, noteworthy chapters of the comic adapted for the series, and manages to squeeze them all into a single episode without it feeling overstuffed.
Bringing The Sandman to the screen is a constant balancing act, and Netflix’s series seems keenly aware of when to reign in the story’s most surreal elements, and when to let the fantasy of Gaiman’s world run wild. The first season of the series casts a wide net with all of the worlds, concepts, and story threads it introduces, but it also finds a way to center all of these elements around a single, strong narrative that moves ever forward, sweeping you along as it goes.
That the series also makes all of this colorful scenery around the main narrative feel important makes the journey feel even more rich and rewarding.
Gaiman and the series’ creative team clearly have a grand vision for The Sandman series on Netflix, and although season 1 ends on a satisfying note, it also hints at big things to come for Morpheus. For fans of the comic, the first season of the series should be a pleasant surprise, offering both a sincere, faithful adaptation of the source material and enough fresh interpretations of that material to keep things exciting. Newcomers to the world of The Sandman are even more fortunate, however, as the series delivers a great introduction to the saga of Dream and the Endless that’s likely to bring even more fans into Gaiman’s masterfully crafted world.
Season 1 of The Sandman is available now on Netflix.
The Sandman (2022) tv-ma 1 Season Sci-Fi & Fantasy, Drama Tom Sturridge, Boyd Holbrook, Vivienne Acheampong David S. Goyer, Neil Gaiman, Allan Heinberg watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Editors' Recommendations Is Scott Pilgrim the best comic book story ever? Is Marvel (finally) going to introduce the X-Men into the MCU in The Marvels? The 10 darkest moments in the DCEU, ranked One Piece’s ending, explained This series is Netflix’s most popular comic book show now. Here’s why you should watch it Netflix Streaming Services Movie images and data from: Entertainment Over five decades ago, comic book creators Len Wein and artist Bernie Wrightson unleashed Swamp Thing, one of the most iconic horror characters in the DC universe. The comic introduced a scientist named Alec Holland who had created a Bio-Restorative formula that was meant to help end world hunger. Unfortunately, Alec was attacked by saboteurs who murdered his wife Linda and left him for dead after rigging his lab to explode. But Alec's mind and memories survived thanks to his formula, which transformed him into the elemental creature that we call Swamp Thing.
A Nightmare on Elm Street's Wes Craven wrote and directed the first Swamp Thing movie in 1982, which featured Ray Wise as Holland and Dick Durock as Swamp Thing. Durock reprised his role in The Return of Swamp Thing and in the subsequent Swamp Thing TV series in 1990. Aside from a Swamp Thing reboot series in 2019, the character has been largely absent from the live-action realm. However, DC Studios co-CEOs James Gunn and Peter Safran have announced that there's a new Swamp Thing movie in the works for the upcoming DCU. Additionally, Logan and Indiana Jones and the Dial of Destiny director James Mangold is likely to write and direct the film.
Entertainment If you were hoping that Blue Beetle would be the film that turned around DC's fortunes after severe missteps in Black Adam, Shazam! Fury of the Gods, and The Flash, then you're going to be disappointed. Despite some good intentions behind it, Blue Beetle lands with a thud and it somehow manages to come off badly even when compared to the two DC films that came out earlier this year.
This is truly disappointing because there are things that Blue Beetle got right, including casting Cobra Kai's Xolo Maridueña in the title role. Maridueña is really great as Jaime Reyes, and he seems destined to headline bigger and better films. Additionally, the Blue Beetle costume itself looks great and it's very true to the spirit of the way the Scarab looks and operates in the comics.
Entertainment Since Iron Man arrived in 2008, superhero movies have usually featured a mid-credits scene, a post-credits scene, or both. It's become a tradition for superhero flicks, although there are still a few films that try to ignore that expectation. Without giving too much away, Blue Beetle does embrace that superhero tradition. And the scene in question sets up a potential sequel that could completely upend the life of the new Blue Beetle, Jaime Reyes (Xolo Maridueña), as well as the film's secondary protagonist, Jenny Kord (Bruna Marquezine).
So the short answer is "yes," you should stick around when the credits roll on Blue Beetle. But you may not want to stay all the way to the very end of the credits, and we can explain why.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
