Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Netflix Original Movies Best Comedies on Netflix Best Netflix Original Series Best Anime on Netflix Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Fantasy Movies on Netflix Home Entertainment Guides Netflix has a new hit show with Who is Erin Carter? Here’s why you should watch it By Blair Marnell Close Netflix has a new hit on its hands, thanks to the unexpected success of its new action thriller Who is Erin Carter? The show premiered last week with relatively little promotion, but subscribers have embraced the show, and it has already climbed to No. 1 on the list of the top 10 most popular shows on Netflix. A second season has yet to be ordered, but if the show keeps up this kind of performance, then it’s a strong contender for a renewal.
Evin Ahmad gives a star-making performance The action is terrific The unfolding mystery is intriguing As we head into the long Labor Day weekend, Who is Erin Carter? should be at the top of your shows to binge from the comfort of your own home. Here, we share three reasons why you should watch Who is Erin Carter? on Netflix.
Evin Ahmad gives a star-making performance Netflix Until now, Evin Ahmad has only appeared in films and TV shows in her native country of Sweden. But thanks to her performance in Who is Erin Carter? , Ahmad is likely to become a breakout performer in America as well. After this series, there’s no question that Ahmad is a star, as she carries this story by believably portraying Erin as both a capable fighter and a woman who can be emotionally and physically vulnerable. She’s not invulnerable, even though Erin’s fighting skills tend to give her the edge in most of her physical confrontations.
The best new shows to stream on Netflix, Hulu, Max (HBO), and more 3 TV shows on Tubi you should watch in November 6 best TV shows you need to watch in December None of this would work if Ahmad couldn’t convincingly emote and make us believe in Erin as a human being. She has needs, she has flaws, and she even makes some costly mistakes that may endanger everyone she loves.
The action is terrific Netflix It does take some suspension of disbelief to watch someone of Ahmad’s size overwhelm a much bigger man, but that’s part of the fun of this series. The reason why Erin draws so much suspicion is that she beats up and nearly kills a robber when he makes the mistake of potentially threatening her daughter, Harper (Indica Watson). And by the time the first season is over, Erin will have to call upon those skills several times in order to survive.
Who is Erin Carter? also features very good action chorography for a TV show, which may account for its meteoric rise on Netflix’s series chart. But as good as Ahmad is with the action, she’s even better when she’s verbally sparring with her rival, Penelope Reyna (Charlotte Vega), a local woman who has no idea that Erin could break her in two if she wanted to.
The unfolding mystery is intriguing Netflix The first episode of Who is Erin Carter? reveals that Erin fled England when Harper (Leila Faith Lopez) was much younger, but it doesn’t immediately reveal what she’s running from. That mystery lingers over the early episodes, especially when the older Harper, and Erin’s husband, Jordi Collantes (Sean Teale), become openly suspicious about the most important woman in their lives. Erin is everything to her family, and suddenly they can’t trust that she is who she pretends to be.
This show also raises the stakes when Erin’s unintentional heroics make her a minor celebrity, which only gives the people she’s running from a way to track her down in Spain and destroy the carefully crafted life that she’s created for herself. Rest assured, most of the big questions about Erin’s past are answered by the end of the first season. But the tension is the best thing about the mystery.
Watch Who is Erin Carter? on Netflix.
Editors' Recommendations 3 movies and TV shows like the hit Max series Julia you should watch right now The 50 best shows on Netflix in November 2023 The 10 most popular TV shows on Netflix right now 3 underrated shows on Netflix you need to watch in November This underrated 2023 horror movie on Netflix deserves more love. Here’s why you should watch it Netflix Streaming Services Entertainment By the 1980s, science fiction had become a much less niche proposition. Several major movies had proven that it was possible to make popular versions of these stories, and TV followed suit shortly after that.
While there were several immensely popular sci-fi series airing during this period, a few also fell under the radar. These three shows are perfect examples of why sci-fi storytelling became much more popular in the 1980s across a wide array of different formats, whether it was in the U.S. or the U.K.
Red Dwarf (1988) Red Dwarf - Series 1 Trailer Entertainment Bodies | Official Trailer | Netflix Following its debut in October, Bodies has proven to be one of the most popular shows on Netflix. Unfortunately, DC Comics failed to capitalize on this in time, as the original comic by writer Si Spencer and artists Dean Ormston, Tula Lotay, Meghan Hetrick, and Phil Winslade is out of print. Regardless, there are other DC Comics, and at least one indie title, that would make terrific TV shows. They also have the benefit of long publishing runs and established fandoms.
Entertainment One thing that you can always count on at Netflix is that some unexpected film will conquer the algorithm and emerge from obscurity as one of the top titles on the site. This week, the 2019 revenge thriller, Cold Pursuit, landed among the most popular movies on Netflix. Liam Neeson starred in the film, and he's easily the most recognizable member of the cast, although Shameless star Emmy Rossum does have a supporting role as well.
Cold Pursuit was only a modest hit at the box office, and it couldn't recapture that old Taken magic that Neeson's been chasing since 2010. So why is this action movie suddenly so popular on Netflix? There are three reasons why it's now a minor hit, and we'll share them with you now.
Liam Neeson's out for revenge ... again Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
