Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Gaming News Persona 3 Reload will release during a surprisingly packed February 2024 By Tomas Franzese Close Atlus announced when players will finally be able to get their hands on the Persona 3 Reload remake, and it’s coming out during what’s currently looking like a surprisingly packed month for new game releases.
Specifically, Persona 3 Reload will launch on February 2, 2024, which is less than three months after strategy game spinoff Persona 5 Tactica.
 The release date was revealed at the end of a new trailer that introduces the main cast of the JRPG, who make up the Specialized Extracurricular Execution Squad, or S.E.E.S. All in all, it looks like Reload is really shaping up to be a faithful remake of the original version of Persona 3, which first released for the PlayStation 2 in Japan in 2006.
That February 2 release date makes Persona 3 Reload one of 2024’s first major game launches, but also places it in a month that’s getting surprisingly crowded with games now that the early 2024 game release calendar is taking shape a bit more. It will launch just one day after Granblue Fantasy: Relink , another long-awaited RPG from a Japanese studio that just got a release date at Gamescom Opening Night Live.
Atlus Games like Suicide Squad: Kill the Justice League , Nightingale , and Homeworld 3 are also expected to come out in February, and the month’s release lineup will probably only continue to beef up as it gets closer. Although not quite as crowded as this October, which is ridiculously packed with games, February 2024 could end up being one of the busiest months for the video game industry next year.
Persona 3 Reload launches for PC, PS4, PS5 , Xbox One, and Xbox Series X /S on February 2, 2024.
Editors' Recommendations Suicide Squad: Kill the Justice League: release date, trailers, gameplay, and more Divisive Suicide Squad game’s newest look emphasizes story over live service Suicide Squad: Kill the Justice League delayed nine months, moving it to 2024 Suicide Squad: Kill the Justice League looks a lot like Marvel’s Avengers Everything announced at Sony’s February 2023 State of Play Comic Book Movies DC Comics Tech News Gaming The snow is slowly melting, spring is fast approaching, and PlayStation has announced its first State of Play of 2023, slated to air today. Since the last State of Play live stream aired in September 2022, God of War Ragnarok released to critical acclaim and swept The Game Awards with six trophies (including Innovation in Accessibility and Best Performance). The PlayStation VR2 also just dropped with Horizon Call of Mountain to hold VR fans over until other games come out -- some of which will be announced during the show.
As such, there's a lot riding on the show. Sony's 2023 plans are a little cloudy at present as its not currently clear what's coming beyond . While we may not get a blockbuster announcement of that scale here, we should get a better idea of what's coming from third-party and indie devs, as well as what's in store for PSVR2 post-launch. Here's how you can watch this month's State of Play stream and what to expect from it.
When is the February State of Play The February State of Play is scheduled to air today at 1 p.m. PT. While it's not clear how long the stream will run, the PlayStation Blog confirmed that it will include more than 15 minutes of Suicide Squad: Kill the Justice League footage, so expect it to last upwards of 20 minutes.
Gaming Warner Bros. Games head David Haddad says that he is feeling optimistic about Warner Bros. Discovery's gaming division despite all of the chaos surrounding the merger between WB and Discovery.
"I do believe, especially moving forward, that we have a critically important role to play inside the company," Haddad says in an interview with Axios. In fact, he mentions that the gaming division is profitable and that there are no planned layoffs or cut projects from new higher-ups. "Warner Bros. Discovery leadership has expressed a strong belief in the growth of the games business and being part of that overall company strategy," he says.
Gaming Rocksteady Studios co-founder and creative director Sefton Hill confirmed that Suicide Squad: Kill the Justice League is now launching in spring 2023.
Previously, WB Games stated that the Batman: Arkham developer's next title would release sometime in 2022. But Bloomberg reported in February that Warner Bros. and Rocksteady had decided to push Suicide Squad: Kill the Justice League to 2023. Although fans widely acknowledged that delay report, WB Games and Rocksteady had not officially commented on the delay until March 23, when Hill tweeted about it.
"We've made the difficult decision to delay Suicide Squad: Kill The Justice League to Spring 2023," Hill said in a tweet that featured a video of the game's characters being annoyed. "I know a delay is frustrating but that time is going into making the best game we can. I look forward to bringing the chaos to Metropolis together. Thanks for your patience." Rocksteady has not released a game since Batman: Arkham VR in 2016 and has not released a full-fledged AAA console experience since Batman: Arkham Knight in 2015.
https://twitter.com/Seftonhill/status/1506632960858021902 While Suicide Squad: Kill the Justice League isn't coming out this year, WB Games is still releasing many games this year. Lego Star Wars: The Skywalker Saga launches on April 5 and is shaping up well. Gotham Knights, another DC video game, will launch on October 25. Finally, the controversial new Harry Potter game Hogwarts Legacy currently has a holiday 2022 release window.
When Suicide Squad: Kill the Justice League does release in spring 2023, it will be available for PC, PS5, and Xbox Series X.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
