Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix F1 Live Stream Stranger Things Season 5 Best New Movies Most Popular Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney+ UFC Live Stream Best Movies on Disney+ Home Entertainment Guides 10 best comic book movies of the 2010s, ranked By Anthony Orlando Close Moviegoers in recent years have seen theaters dominated by an ever-popular wave of superhero movies. The many films produced by Marvel and DC made for some of the most highly anticipated cinematic events of the 2010s.
10. Captain America: The Winter Soldier (2014) 9. Captain America: Civil War (2016) 8. Guardians of the Galaxy (2013) 7. Wonder Woman (2017) 6. Logan (2017) 5. The Avengers (2012) 4. Black Panther (2018) 3. Avengers: Infinity War (2018) 2. Avengers: Endgame (2019) 1. Spider-Man: Into the Spider-Verse (2018) While not all of these movies were critical or commercial darlings, there were still plenty of superhero projects that stood above the rest as creative and thrilling adventures that helped make the genre what it is today. Superhero fatigue may be finally setting in, but these 10 films haven’t lost their ability to excite and move their many fans.
10. Captain America: The Winter Soldier (2014) Image used with permission by copyright holder In their breakout debut in superhero cinema, directors Anthony and Joe Russo reinvigorated Captain America’s story by pitting him against the very government he fights for in this outstanding spy thriller. After learning Hydra has infiltrated S.H.I.E.L.D., Cap goes on the run with Black Widow and is forced to face his best friend, Bucky, who is now Hydra’s titular brainwashed assassin.
10 best movie superhero costumes, ranked Though this film places Cap in the modern world, it takes a refreshing approach to filmmaking by presenting more hardcore, but practical action scenes, with the famous elevator fight being the high point.
9. Captain America: Civil War (2016) Image used with permission by copyright holder After one of their missions causes an international tragedy, the Avengers are split in half as they are pressured to have their actions limited by the government, all while Captain America uncovers a conspiracy to tear them all apart.
Though Cap and his allies once again find themselves fleeing from the authorities, Civil War brings together Avengers old and new, including Black Panther and Spider-Man , to meet each other in a superpowered battle for the ages. As friends and allies clash in a raw and emotional bout of ideals, this film proves that the greatest threat the Avengers ever faced is themselves.
8. Guardians of the Galaxy (2013) Marvel Even after The Avengers broke new ground for the superhero genre, Guardians of the Galaxy came in and pushed the boundaries of what comic book movies could do. Many people, including the film’s own cast, thought that this would be the MCU’s first box-office bomb, but theaters instead blew up with hilarity and excitement over this new team of misfits and their truly awesome mix.
Director James Gunn proved all the naysayers wrong by taking a group of unknown characters, including a talking tree and a gunslinging raccoon, and made them one of Marvel’s most beloved bands of heroes thanks to an endearing story, spectacular visuals, and plenty of laughs to go around.
7. Wonder Woman (2017) Image used with permission by copyright holder Though the DC Extended Universe experienced many disappointments with the likes of Batman v Superman and Suicide Squad , Wonder Woman swooped in and defied all the odds and became a groundbreaking success in many ways.
As the first comic book movie helmed by a female director, Wonder Woman features a revolutionary depiction of the titular hero that set a high standard for how women are portrayed in the superhero genre. Illustrating her fight for peace and love during World War I, this Amazon warrior’s origin story is an endearing, thoughtful, and action-packed adventure that has everything audiences could want in a comic book film.
6. Logan (2017) 20th Century Studios / 20th Century Studios Left to die in a world without mutants, an ailing Logan encounters a young girl with the same powers as him and helps her seek asylum from her former captors. As Hugh Jackman’s swan song from Fox’s X-Men universe , this film held nothing back in displaying the brutality of Logan’s postapocalyptic world and the tragedy that has befallen him and his loved ones.
Logan plays differently than most comic book films, capturing the essence of classic noir and Western films to give the titular superhero a somber but fitting farewell.
5. The Avengers (2012) Marvel Studios / Marvel Studios Before this film came along, a superhero crossover film of its scale and ambition seemed close to impossible. But Marvel Studios defied expectations to bring forth one of the most influential blockbusters ever made.
In their first movie together, the Avengers gather to save Earth from the evil god Loki and his army of alien Chitauri, battling them all in New York in a series of quips and explosions. Though certain aspects of this film may not hold up today, for better or worse, The Avengers changed modern cinema and laid the groundwork for superhero films to dominate theaters in the last decade.
4. Black Panther (2018) Image used with permission by copyright holder Thanks to a spectacular effort by Marvel Studios and director Ryan Coogler, Black Panther proved to the world that African stories with a predominantly Black cast could become blockbuster hits. This film took audiences to the African nation of Wakanda, where its people live free and prosperous lives, and its leaders overcome oppression. At the same time, Wakanda is the setting of civil conflict, as King T’Challa must face off against his cousin Killmonger and other challengers for the throne while debating whether or not he should share his nation’s resources with the rest of the world.
This was the superhero film Black audiences dreamed of, and by bringing African culture and relevant issues regarding race and colonialism to the forefront, Marvel spurred a cinematic and cultural revolution with a long-lasting impact.
3. Avengers: Infinity War (2018) Digital Domain/Marvel Everything was building to this.
Avengers: Infinity War saw Thanos finally rear his head and seek out all six Infinity Stones himself. For a film set in the MCU, Infinity War features an exceptionally dark story with incredible stakes, as Thanos and his legions slaughter their way across the cosmos and kill many of audiences’ favorite characters in the pursuit of infinite power.
Despite this, the evil Titan set a high standard for villains in cinema by being a layered and sympathetic figure, as he believes he is saving an overpopulated universe from destruction by wiping out half of all life. No matter how many fans saw it coming, none of them were prepared for the horror of Thanos’ victory.
2. Avengers: Endgame (2019) Image used with permission by copyright holder This blockbuster truly lived up to the hype created by Infinity War.
 To undo all the damage Thanos did with his dreaded Snap, the Avengers travel back in time to recover the Infinity Stones and bring back everyone who was erased from existence.
As the culmination of the Infinity Saga, Endgame shows the Avengers revisiting many of the MCU’s greatest moments and exploring what made it such a beloved film franchise in the first place. However, the movie’s real highlight comes in its outstanding third act, which pit all of Earth’s Mightiest Heroes against Thanos and his army in a glorious final battle that left audiences around the world cheering in theaters.
1. Spider-Man: Into the Spider-Verse (2018) Image used with permission by copyright holder As great as Across The Spider-Verse is, the original still remains the better film.
Spider-Man: Into the Spider-Verse serves as a love letter to the web-slinger’s classic comics, deconstructing many classic tropes and fully embracing the silliness of its source material. At the same time, the film injects enough heart and drama into the story to be taken seriously.
Likewise, the film’s groundbreaking animation truly makes the picture look like a comic book brought to life, and it has been an inspiration for the looks of many animated films since its release. Much like Miles in this film, Into the Spider-Verse went from being an underdog to one of the greatest game-changers in superhero cinema.
Editors' Recommendations The best MCU sequels, ranked Comic Book Movies DC Comics Marvel Entertainment November has been a great month for movies at Netflix, with the premiere of David Fincher's The Killer, and recent box office hits like Insidious: The Red Door and Spider-Man: Across the Spider-Verse. This week, the new additions include The Impossible, a 2012 survival thriller that has already landed on the list of the 10 most popular movies on Netflix. For younger viewers, Minions is also heating up the charts despite the pending departure of the other films in the franchise at the end of the month.
There's only one holiday weekend left in November, so what's the best way to stay on top of everything new on Netflix? Why, we are, of course. Our list of the best movies on Netflix right now is updated every Friday, even on holiday weekends, so you can easily find something for every movie lover in your life.
Entertainment Summer is long over, and the fall season is in full swing. It's now late 2023, and just about everyone is subscribed to Netflix and Hulu. But would you be surprised if I told you one of the most underrated streaming services around is Tubi? The upstart streamer has tons of new and old TV shows from every decade and every genre imaginable. Want to watch the buzziest series that aired on Max? Tubi has it. Are you feeling nostalgic about that old movie or cartoon you used to watch as a kid in the '80s or '90s? Chances are, Tubi has it.
Tubi has so much content that it can be hard to choose which shows and films are worth your time. Digital Trends is here to help you sort out which ones are worth watching. Even though the streaming service is free, time is valuable, and no one wants to waste it watching subpar content.
Entertainment Rather than waiting for the Thanksgiving holiday weekend, Apple TV+ and Netflix dropped two of their biggest shows of the fall this week. Netflix's The Crown kicked off its sixth and final season with four new episodes, while the Apple TV+ Godzilla-adjacent series Monarch: Legacy of Monster, dropped its first two episodes this week, with new episodes arriving weekly thereafter. Also this week, Scott Pilgrim Takes Off hits Netflix, while Max gets in on the act this week by premiering the second season of Julia.
Netflix, Amazon Prime Video, Hulu, Max, Apple TV+, Disney+, Paramount+, and Peacock still have new shows coming for the rest of November, including a handful arriving next week. But if you've been thinking about cutting back on your streaming bill, then perhaps you should consider signing up for the ad-supported tiers. In the meantime, keep reading for our weekly roundup of the best new shows to stream.
When you're done here, check out the best new movies to stream this week, as well as the best shows on Netflix, best shows on Hulu, best shows on Amazon Prime Video, and best shows on Disney+.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
