Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix F1 Live Stream Stranger Things Season 5 Best New Movies Most Popular Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney+ UFC Live Stream Best Movies on Disney+ Home Entertainment Guides 10 best Gotham episodes ever, ranked By Anthony Orlando Close Gotham remains one of DC’s most underrated TV shows. Basically Batman’s answer to Smallville , this series dips into decades of comic book lore to depict the origins of Bruce Wayne , Jim Gordon, and Gotham City’s many other heroes and villains.
10. Penguin’s Umbrella 9. Heroes Rise: How the Riddler Got His Name 8. Rise of the Villains: Worse Than a Crime 7. Rise of the Villains: The Last Laugh 6. Rise of the Villains: Knock, Knock 5. Legend of the Dark Knight: The Beginning… 4. Mad City: The Gentle Art of Making Enemies 3. Heroes Rise: Heavydirtysoul 2. A Dark Knight: One Bad Day 1. A Dark Knight: No Man’s Land The show certainly isn’t perfect, but it is still a faithful but bold reimagining of the Dark Knight’s mythology, and these ten episodes display just how great Gotham really is.
10. Penguin’s Umbrella Fox / Fox With Cobblepot returning to Gotham after Jim spared his life, the latter must face the consequences of his actions as he struggles to contain the city’s brewing gang war.
10 best horror movies of the 1970s, ranked 10 best horror movies of the 1980s, ranked The 10 darkest moments in the DCEU, ranked Cobblepot establishes himself as one of Gotham’s most cunning villains in this episode, thanks to the revelation that he planned for Gordon to spare him and infiltrate the Maroni crime family for Falcone. His return also helped the series forge its identity as the serialized crime thriller that kept audiences watching for five seasons.
9. Heroes Rise: How the Riddler Got His Name Fox / Fox After leaving his friend-turned-enemy Cobblepot for dead, Nygma embarks on a destructive journey of self-discovery as he seeks a worthy new adversary to unlock his true potential.
With the Penguin’s ghost haunting Nygma at every turn, this episode dives deep into the swirling eddies villain’s enigmatic mind. And thanks to a chilling performance by actor Cory Michael Smith, Nygma embraces his identity as the Riddler in a standout moment for this iconic supervillain.
8. Rise of the Villains: Worse Than a Crime Fox / Fox After the corrupt Theo Galavan kidnaps Bruce to end his family line, Jim must forge a surprising alliance that includes Cobblepot and Nygma to rescue him.
It’s an outlandish but compelling end to the Rise of the Villains arc, as it shows Gotham’s best and worst teaming up to save the day. But it also shows the ever-conflicted Gordon going down a dark path by killing Theo in his pursuit of justice: a shocking act for Gotham’s best police officer.
7. Rise of the Villains: The Last Laugh Fox / Fox Jerome and Barbara crash a hospital gala and hold everyone hostage in an outrageous bit of anarchy and a highlight for both of their characters. Though Jerome’s shocking death certainly wasn’t the end for him, the destructive influence his rampage had on the people of Gotham still immortalized him as one of the city’s greatest villains. (Just don’t call him the Joker.
) 6. Rise of the Villains: Knock, Knock Fox / Fox After a handful of Arkham’s inmates, including Jerome and Barbara, escape captivity, Jim is forced to deal with the villains’ spectacularly chaotic rampage through the city. Most notably, Jerome and his goons participate in a gruesome massacre at the Gotham City Police Department that serves as but a mere taste of the havoc they have in store for everyone.
5. Legend of the Dark Knight: The Beginning… Fox / Fox In this series finale, audiences see Gotham become the city fans know and love. Ten years after Bruce left Gotham, Penguin, Nygma, and Jeremiah escape from captivity to wreak havoc on the city once more, with Jeremiah now a new and far deadlier villain than before.
But since Bruce also returns to protect the city as Batman, this episode brings a satisfying conclusion (and introduction) to the Dark Knight’s legacy after years of buildup.
4. Mad City: The Gentle Art of Making Enemies Fox / Fox The exciting winter finale of season 3 shows Gotham descending into chaos following a citywide blackout, and the reborn Jerome uses this opportunity to make a stellar comeback. Taking cues from many classic comics, Jerome kidnaps Bruce and brings him to a circus filled with torture and terror.
It all leads to a bitter and brutal battle in a hall of mirrors, and this bloody good fight between Bruce and Jerome shows the former taking a big step towards becoming his righteous superhero persona.
3. Heroes Rise: Heavydirtysoul Fox / Fox The emotional conclusion to season 3 shows Jim nearly leaving Gotham with Lee Thompkins as he tries to find the cure to the Tetch virus infecting the city. With Tabitha killing Barbara, Mr. Freeze freezing the Riddler, and Bruce refusing to become Ra’s al Ghul’s heir, this episode marks a turning point for many characters in the series as they discover their place in Gotham.
Most notably, Bruce finally fulfills his destiny by beginning his journey as a masked vigilante, fighting crime in a costume that foreshadows his transformation into the city’s Dark Knight.
2. A Dark Knight: One Bad Day Fox / Fox Based on the Joker’s infamous scheme in Batman: The Killing Joke , Jeremiah pulls out all the stops to push Bruce to his breaking point and destroy Gotham.
Kidnapping Alfred, planting bombs around the city, and spraying Bruce with Scarecrow’s fear toxin, Jeremiah puts his mortal enemy’s mind through the wringer, making for one of the future Caped Crusader’s most difficult challenges in the show.
1. A Dark Knight: No Man’s Land Fox / Fox In the season 4 finale, Jeremiah succeeds in killing Gotham’s’ mayor and destroying every bridge in and out of the city. This turns Gotham into the lawless “no man’s land” many people remember from the misunderstood The Dark Knight Rises.
However, this iteration shows many villains teaming up with Bruce to take down Ra’s al Ghul and the League of Assassins. Nevertheless, this game-changing episode sets the stage for the city to become a true crime-ridden cesspool that Bruce Wayne dives into as Batman.
Editors' Recommendations The best MCU sequels, ranked 10 best Seinfeld episodes ever, ranked 10 worst action heroes ever, ranked 10 best Justice League and Justice League Unlimited episodes ever, ranked 10 best movie superhero costumes, ranked Comic Book Movies DC Comics Entertainment Premiering way back in 1999, Family Guy remains one of the most popular and controversial animated shows on TV. Though the series may have lost its way and left its glory days behind, with 21 seasons under its belt so far, the Griffin family has many terrific episodes that best display the show's unique charm and comedic prowess.
Seeing how long The Simpsons has been on the air, the day this divisive series ends (again) might not come for quite a while. But until then, these are the ten best Family Guy episodes of all time.
10. Death is a B**** Entertainment Before director Matt Reeves introduced a new vision of Gotham City in The Batman, Ben Affleck was set to helm the film based on a script he wrote centered around his version of Bruce Wayne in the DC Extended Universe. But as Affleck dealt with health issues and lost interest in directing the project and playing Batman, Reeves, and Warner Bros. continued steering in a different direction until an entirely new cinematic universe came to fruition with Robert Pattinson playing the Dark Knight.
Though the final cut of The Batman is arguably one of the best films about the Caped Crusader, many "Snyderverse" fans can't stop wanting to see what could've been. And while Affleck seems happy and healthy, having hung up his cape and cowl, one can't help but want to see his canceled film based on the many cool things that have been revealed over the years.
Deathstroke is the villain Entertainment Bounding from rooftop to rooftop, the Dark Knight never misses his mark. He operates like a well-oiled machine tracking bad guys, beating them to a bloody pulp, and throwing them in the slammer - or Arkham Asylum should they be anyone of Gotham's notable supervillains. As the brainchild of Bob Kane and Bill Finger, an artist and writer duo, Batman has been pounding the pavement of Gotham ever since his debut in Detective Comics in 1939. He's undergone a number of changes since his original conception ultimately becoming the brooding powerhouse we know today.
Most understand the basic tenants of Batman these days. His parents were murdered before his young eyes leading him down this path of personal vindication and pursuit of justice. Batman, in most iterations, never resorts to killing -- the one crime that separates his outlaw vigilante operations from the real criminals. Of course, it wasn't always that way. In Batman's earliest days, he had no qualms about ending the lives of baddies on the streets. Even now, some stories and films like Tim Burton's gothic take on the character depict him looking on with cold and uncaring glares as criminals meet their end. Regardless, Batman is mostly a well-established hero simply seeking justice and there are countless stories of the Caped Crusader. Let's take a look at the best among them.
10. Hush Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
