Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix F1 Live Stream Stranger Things Season 5 Best New Movies Most Popular Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney+ UFC Live Stream Best Movies on Disney+ Home Entertainment Guides 10 best Justice League and Justice League Unlimited episodes ever, ranked By Anthony Orlando Close The Justice League cartoon is one of the most ambitious animated projects DC has ever produced. Starting off as one two-season show, it later continued with the sequel series Justice League Unlimited.
 The cumulative story follows the many, many members of the titular team of superheroes as they defend the world from all kinds of destructive threats.
10. Injustice for All 9. Alive! 8. Twilight 7. Epilogue 6. A Better World 5. Hereafter 4. Starcrossed 3. For the Man Who Has Everything 2. CADMUS Crisis 1. Destroyer Despite its being a cartoon marketed towards children, its fantastic storytelling and approach to mature themes have made it a classic, and it’s episodes like these ten that stand as a benchmark for all other DC stories.
10. Injustice for All Warner Bros. / Warner Bros.
After being exposed as a criminal to the public, Lex Luthor gets sent to prison, where he assembles his own team of superpowered criminals to help him escape and get revenge on the Justice League. This Secret Society of Super-Villains becomes even deadlier when the Joker steps in to help them kidnap Batman.
10 best Gotham episodes ever, ranked 10 best movie superhero costumes, ranked 10 cool things to know about Ben Affleck’s canceled Batman movie Though the League struggles to battle the villains and set Batman free, the Dark Knight escapes on his own by turning his captors against each other with his charm and wits, proving why he’s one of the world’s most capable heroes.
9. Alive! Warner Bros. / Warner Bros.
In Unlimited ‘s penultimate episode, Lex Luthor and his Secret Society plan to resurrect Brainiac, but Gorilla Grodd leads a revolt against Luthor and his supporters. But in a shocking twist, the villains resurrect Darkseid by mistake, allowing the Lord of Apokolips to reclaim control of his planet and launch an invasion of Earth.
Once again, these villains prove in spectacular fashion that they are their own worst enemies, as their hubris and lack of unity unleash the greatest threat the Justice League will ever face.
8. Twilight Warner Bros. / Warner Bros.
In this two-part epic, Brainiac launches an attack on the planet Apokolips, and its evil ruler, Darkseid, asks the Justice League to help defeat him. Naturally, the heroes have no reason to trust the alien tyrant, who displays his absolute worst throughout the episode, and this rings especially true for Superman.
Having once been brainwashed to serve Darkseid and invade Earth, the Man of Steel is clearly out for blood as he faces his immortal foe again. Even so, the League puts their feud to battle Brainiac in an epic clash of gods and machines in DC’s Fourth World, but not without a bitter rematch between Darkseid and Superman.
7. Epilogue Warner Bros. / Warner Bros.
In a crossover meant to conclude the entire DC Animated Universe, Terry McGinnis learns that he is Batman’s biological son and that Amanda Waller orchestrated his whole life to continue the Dark Knight’s legacy.
This episode digs deep into what makes Bruce Wayne such a unique hero, as he persuades Ace to cease her psychic rampage instead of killing her, allowing him to comfort her in her final moments, showing that his greatest superpower is his compassion.
6. A Better World Warner Bros. / Warner Bros.
In a novel premise long before Injustice , this episode opens in an alternate universe in which Superman kills President Lex Luthor after the latter murders the Flash, which drives the League to enforce a stricter form of justice as Earth’s new overlords.
These “Justice Lords” then discover the main timeline and decide to spread their tyranny to this new reality, causing them to battle with the true Justice League in a clash of powers and ideals.
5. Hereafter Warner Bros. / Warner Bros.
In this episode, Superman is seemingly killed while battling the evil Toyman, and his friends and loved ones gather to mourn him in a poignant service. Even Lex Luthor comes to pay his respects to his mortal foe. However, Batman refuses to believe the Man of Steel is dead, and he is proven correct when Clark is shown to have been transported to a post-apocalyptic future Earth.
This episode is a clever exploration of a world without Superman, both in the present and the future, with villains running rampant and Supe’s replacement, the Main Man Lobo, causing more harm than good.
4. Starcrossed Warner Bros. / Warner Bros.
In the three-part finale to the original series, Hawkgirl betrays the Justice League after her race, the Thanagarians, launch a secret invasion of Earth in their quest to end their war with the alien Gordorians.
On top of that, the invasion is led by Hawkgirl’s fiancée, which drives a wedge between her and her love interest, John Stewart. Trusts are broken and loyalties are tested as Earth’s future hangs in the balance in the midst of this epic, intergalactic war.
3. For the Man Who Has Everything Warner Bros. / Warner Bros.
Adapting Alan Moore’s classic comic of the same name, this episode shows Batman and Wonder Woman visiting Superman on his birthday, only to find the Man of Steel catatonic from a parasitic plant sent by the villain Mongul. In his mind, audiences see Superman live out his deepest fantasy: an idyllic life on the planet Krypton with a wife and kids.
But while his allies try to stop Mongul from destroying the world, Superman must refuse this all-too-tempting gift and watch his homeworld crumble all over again to return to those who need him.
2. CADMUS Crisis Warner Bros. / Warner Bros.
This one may actually qualify as four episodes, but it has been marketed as a two-hour-long movie that concludes season 3 of Justice League Unlimited. Beginning with “Question Authority,” the titular detective attempts to murder Lex Luthor to prevent the world’s destruction, as implied by the Justice Lords’ timeline. This leads to Luthor framing the League for his attack on Project Cadmus, which drives the long-gestating group to launch their planned counterstrike against the heroes.
What follows is an all-out war brought on by humanity’s growing distrust in the Justice League, something Superman has long tried to undo. The Man of Steel battles Captain Atom, Supergirl fights her evil clone, and robot copies of the Justice Lords appear to cause trouble for the League. It all leads to an epic bout against a fusion of Luthor and Brainiac, with Flash defeating it by tapping into a speed not seen since his death in Crisis on Infinite Earths.
1. Destroyer Warner Bros. / Warner Bros.
In the second series finale, the resurrected Darkseid launches a full-scale invasion of Earth, forcing the Justice League to team up with the Secret Society to stop him.
This series finale is nothing short of epic, as heroes from all over the world are called upon to battle Darkseid’s alien army. Superman also goes all-out for the first time against the God of Evil while Lex Luthor breaks through the Source Wall and acquires the fabled Anti-Life Equation.
Justice League Unlimited is streaming on Max and Netflix.
Editors' Recommendations The 10 darkest moments in the DCEU, ranked 10 most powerful Justice League members, ranked from weakest to strongest 10 best Family Guy episodes, ranked 10 best Batman stories ever, ranked The 10 best opening scenes in superhero movies, ranked Comic Book Movies DC Comics Entertainment Spider-Man: Across the Spider-Verse has taken audiences on an animated roller coaster across the Multiverse with its colorful cast of characters. This sequel film took things to a whole new level by introducing hundreds of Spider-People from different dimensions and putting them all together for one mind-blowing superhero extravaganza.
Out of all the bizarre, quirky, and relatable figures that appear, these 10 have launched themselves to the top of the list of the best characters in the entire film.
10. Jefferson Davis Entertainment With the recent leak about Nicolas Cage appearing as Superman in DC's The Flash, some people might be left scratching their heads over this bizarre cameo. Though Cage has never played the Man of Steel in live-action, he almost did back in the '90s when he signed up to star in the canceled film Superman Lives.
Even by comic book movie standards, the story and the troubled production of this film are pretty bizarre, but many fans still wonder what could've been. Since Cage is finally fulfilling his dream of physically playing the Blue Boy Scout, it seems like the perfect time to go over what has been revealed over the years about his axed superhero film.
Tim Burton was going to direct Entertainment November has been a great month for movies at Netflix, with the premiere of David Fincher's The Killer, and recent box office hits like Insidious: The Red Door and Spider-Man: Across the Spider-Verse. This week, the new additions include The Impossible, a 2012 survival thriller that has already landed on the list of the 10 most popular movies on Netflix. For younger viewers, Minions is also heating up the charts despite the pending departure of the other films in the franchise at the end of the month.
There's only one holiday weekend left in November, so what's the best way to stay on top of everything new on Netflix? Why, we are, of course. Our list of the best movies on Netflix right now is updated every Friday, even on holiday weekends, so you can easily find something for every movie lover in your life.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
