Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix F1 Live Stream Stranger Things Season 5 Best New Movies Most Popular Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney+ UFC Live Stream Best Movies on Disney+ Home Entertainment Guides 10 best movie superhero costumes, ranked By Anthony Orlando Close A big part of a superhero ‘s appeal is their costume. Whether they’re brimming with color or dark as night, these super-suits help convey to their audience the kind of hero they’ll see wearing them.
10. Doctor Strange (Marvel Cinematic Universe) 9. Spider-Gwen (the Spider-Verse films) 8. Deadpool (Deadpool 1 and 2) 7. Captain America (Avengers: Endgame) 6. Black Panther (Marvel Cinematic Universe) 5. Iron Man (Avengers: Infinity War) 4. Batman (DC Extended Universe) 3. Superman (Batman v Superman: Dawn of Justice) 2. Wonder Woman (DC Extended Universe) 1. Spider-Man (Spider-Man: No Way Home) While some comic book movies have taken liberties in creating realistic costumes, many times, the heroes rock outfits that look exactly like what they wore in the source material. Out of the many costumes seen on film, these ten have reached the height of superhero fashion.
10. Doctor Strange (Marvel Cinematic Universe) Marvel Studios / Marvel Studios No one else could pull off Doctor Strange’s look quite like Benedict Cumberbatch. The actor already bore an uncanny resemblance to the Sorcerer Supreme.
7 things the MCU should do in a revised Multiverse saga The 10 darkest moments in the DCEU, ranked 10 best Justice League and Justice League Unlimited episodes ever, ranked But with his red and blue costume in the MCU, his character fully embraces the “strange” parts of his superhero persona without ever looking over the top, complete with his Cloak of Levitation and the Eye of Agamotto.
9. Spider-Gwen (the Spider-Verse films) Sony / Sony Gwen Stacy’s costume has been an integral part of her popularity as Spider-Woman, so Into the Spider-Verse just had to get the character’s look right. Thankfully, the filmmakers didn’t disappoint, as the web-slinger rocked her iconic black and white suit with pink webbed lining.
Also, the green dance shoes are a welcome new addition to her outfit, as they accentuate her ballerina-esque agility and elegance, further setting her apart from the other Spider-People in the Multiverse.
8. Deadpool (Deadpool 1 and 2) 20th Century Studios / 20th Century Studios When Deadpool was developing his first solo film, it seemed like any outfit would’ve been better than the look he had in X-Men Origins: Wolverine.
 However, the Merc with a Mouth’s blood-red suit seemed to have been taken right out of the comics when it debuted in 2016.
Unlike most cinematic superheroes, Deadpool’s mask retains the blank, white eyes typically seen in the comics, but they still manage to convey his facial expressions in a cartoonish manner fitting for his character.
7. Captain America (Avengers: Endgame) Marvel Studios / Marvel Studios Since his hero’s journey culminated in Avengers: Endgame , Cap’s final suit fittingly combines the best elements of the many suits that came before it. With his classic red, white, and blue color scheme, this getup blends the classic soldier’s fatigues of the past with the modern, polished armor of the present.
The star on this chest also seems to emanate a vibrant light with its scaly design, underlining his complete transformation into a symbol of hope for the people he’s sworn to protect.
6. Black Panther (Marvel Cinematic Universe) Marvel / Marvel Bringing Black Panther to the big screen was a lofty task for Marvel Studios, and doing the character’s suit justice was a crucial but successful endeavor. With his trademark vibranium necklace, T’Challa’s suit honors the hero’s classic look and invokes his African heritage. At the same time, it looks like a real piece of hi-tech armor reminiscent of Iron Man’s.
It only got better once T’Challa donned an upgraded version that could absorb and release kinetic energy, adding purple streaks of light that seemed to course through his veins like the mystical protector that his people so revere.
5. Iron Man (Avengers: Infinity War) Marvel Studios / Marvel Studios Tony Stark has built many different versions of his Iron Man armor in the MCU, but the Mark L surpasses them all in terms of style and function. Made up entirely of nanobots, this suit is smoother, much more fluid, and can generate a variety of cool and powerful weapons seemingly out of thin air, making it a technological marvel.
Likewise, the armor doesn’t go overboard with the color gold like the suit in Endgame , and the triangular arc reactor is more detailed and distinctive than previous models.
4. Batman (DC Extended Universe) Warner Bros. / Warner Bros.
Michael Keaton and Christian Bale ‘s costumes are some of Batman’s most definitive looks, but Ben Affleck’s main suit in the DCEU is arguably the best one yet. For one thing, it looks almost exactly like the suit featured in Frank Miller’s comic, The Dark Knight Returns.
Also, the suit and cowl achieve the right balance of style and comfort, as Batman can fight freely and instill fear in his foes while the suit can still protect him without any excessive padding. On top of that, the gray coloring contrasts well with the black bat emblem, which features a polished design that isn’t too exaggerated or on the nose.
3. Superman (Batman v Superman: Dawn of Justice) Warner Bros. / Warner Bros.
Since DCEU was supposed to remake the Man of Steel for the modern age, Henry Cavill’s Superman did away with the classic red underoos and wore a sleek, detailed suit that looked like something from another world, allowing audiences to take his character more seriously. The emblem on the suit’s chest is also less blatant in its resemblance to an “S,” making it more like an alien symbol of hope.
But in his second film, the emblem features a quote from author Joseph Campbell (who was a huge inspiration for director Zack Snyder) written in the Kryptonian language that translates to, “And where we had thought to be alone, we shall be all with the world.” This hidden detail emphasizes Superman’s nature as a mythological hero who connects everyone he helps by embodying the best parts of themselves.
2. Wonder Woman (DC Extended Universe) Warner Bros. Pictures / Warner Bros. Pictures Making her cinematic debut in Batman v Superman: Dawn of Justice , Wonder Woman dons a dazzling, Xena-esque armor that shows that she is ready for battle. Armed with her sword & shield, the Lasso of Truth, and the Bracelets of Submission, Gal Gadot’s character cements herself as a fierce and powerful warrior the moment she arrives on the scene.
And with this suit ditching the traditional star-spangled Spanx, Diana looks more like a hero from Greek mythology, revitalizing the character for the 21st century.
1. Spider-Man (Spider-Man: No Way Home) Sony / Sony The MCU did wonders for Spider-Man’s suit by giving him a mask with expressive eyes akin to Steve Dikto’s classic drawings of him. However, it wasn’t until the end of Tom Holland’s third solo film that his suit reached perfection.
Taking inspiration from Tobey Maguire and Andrew Garfield ’s suits, this homemade outfit features the classic red and blue color scheme and a sharper, more traditional spider symbol. The MCU’s Spider-Man trilogy has been considered the hero’s origin story, and this suit symbolizes how he has finally become the friendly neighborhood hero everyone knows and loves.
Editors' Recommendations The best MCU sequels, ranked 7 biggest flaws of the most popular movie franchises, ranked 10 best action movie sidekicks ever, ranked 10 best comic book movies of the 2010s, ranked 10 most shocking moments in the MCU, ranked Comic Book Movies DC Comics Marvel Entertainment Before director Matt Reeves introduced a new vision of Gotham City in The Batman, Ben Affleck was set to helm the film based on a script he wrote centered around his version of Bruce Wayne in the DC Extended Universe. But as Affleck dealt with health issues and lost interest in directing the project and playing Batman, Reeves, and Warner Bros. continued steering in a different direction until an entirely new cinematic universe came to fruition with Robert Pattinson playing the Dark Knight.
Though the final cut of The Batman is arguably one of the best films about the Caped Crusader, many "Snyderverse" fans can't stop wanting to see what could've been. And while Affleck seems happy and healthy, having hung up his cape and cowl, one can't help but want to see his canceled film based on the many cool things that have been revealed over the years.
Deathstroke is the villain Entertainment Cinema has experienced a rising trend of what audiences call "social" horror/thriller movies, which use terror and suspense to discuss important issues of race, gender, politics, etc. This isn't to say horror movies aren't socially conscious, as many films of the genre have addressed important issues and ideas about society since cinema's early days.
Calling a horror/thriller film "social" or "elevated" may seem elitist, but it has brought greater attention to the true potential that movies like these ten have displayed by making such commentaries.
10. The Stepford Wives (1975) Entertainment Superhero movies often excel at making a grand entrance, hooking the audience within the first few minutes. They do so with some spectacular action scenes or just some thrilling or emotional moments that get viewers interested in seeing what's in store for them.
From the first Guardians of the Galaxy's giddy dance number to the brutal assassination of The Comedian in Watchmen, here's a list of the 10 best opening scenes in superhero movies.
10. Batman v Superman: Dawn of Justice (2016) Batman v Superman Dawn of Justice - Opening Scene (2016) Zack Snyder's crossover epic begins with Bruce Wayne recounting a dream he had about the death of his parents. This sequence juxtaposes Thomas and Martha's murders with Bruce's fall into a bat-filled cave, symbolizing his descent into grief following this tragedy. Each frame of this beautiful scene looks like a panel from an actual comic book, and the somber song that plays in this scene captures the loss of Bruce's innocence at the hands of a random criminal.
And with the swarm of bats carrying him into the light, audiences see his rise out of that darkness as Batman. But this proves to be a brief glimmer of hope, as the film later shows how far the Dark Knight has fallen after facing so much tragedy and heartbreak in the pursuit of this "beautiful lie." Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
