Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix F1 Live Stream Stranger Things Season 5 Best New Movies Most Popular Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney+ UFC Live Stream Best Movies on Disney+ Home Entertainment Guides 10 best San Diego Comic-Con 2023 exclusives you need to get By Blair Marnell Close Are you heading to San Diego Comic-Con with money to burn? If so, there’s a good chance that you are one of the many fans who will be on the lookout for this year’s Comic-Con exclusives. While Comic-Con’s movie and TV panels tend to get most of the press, you have to keep in mind that this show also has one of the largest dealers’ rooms in the country. And everyone is bringing something to sell.
The Protectors and Fastest Man Alive Phoenix corner box print by Mark Brooks Dune: Part One – The Photography Marvel Legends Series Deadpool & Bob, Agent of Hydra 2-Pack G.I. Joe Classified Series Philip ‘Chuckles’ Provost The Batman – Original Motion Picture Soundtrack 3XLP Macross Shogun Warriors Skull Leader VF-1S Batman Knightfall 30th Anniversary Gold Label Action Figure Star Wars: The Clone Wars Pre Vizsla Mini Bust SDCC 2023 Indiana Jones Raiders of the Lost Ark Sepia Bust That tends to be where you, the collector, come in. To further entice buyers, companies capitalize on Comic-Con by putting out exclusive collectibles, comics, prints, lithographs, action figures, statues, and everything else under the sun. Some of these items may even be available online for fans who can’t make it to San Diego. But if you really want them, then your best bet is always to be there in person on Wednesday, July 19 for Preview Night, or Thursday, July 20 for the first day of the show.
To help you navigate this year’s Con, we’ve narrowed our list down to the 10 best San Diego Comic-Con 2023 exclusives, which you can find below.
The best cosplays of San Diego Comic-Con 2023 At SDCC, Strange New Worlds goes full musical and more Star Trek trailers San Diego Comic-Con 2023 panel and event schedule The Protectors and Fastest Man Alive Alex Ross Art For decades, Alex Ross has brought comic book heroes to vivid life with his breathtaking paintings. And while owning one of those original paintings is often far out of reach for most fans, the Alex Ross Art booth is offering two prints by Ross that caught our eye. The first one, The Protectors , as seen above, was painted by Ross for the cover of Captain America & Iron Man #5.
DC fans have a different option: Fastest Man Alive , a print featuring Superman and The Flash attempting to answer that question once and for all. You can find both at the Alex Ross Art booth at No. 2415 on the convention floor.
Alex Ross Art Phoenix corner box print by Mark Brooks Marvel/Mark Brooks If you follow the modern world of comic books, then you already know that Mark Brooks is one of the top cover artists in the industry. At this year’s convention, Brooks’ representatives at Comic Sketch Art will have three exclusive prints by Brooks featuring the X-Men’s Jean Grey as the Phoenix. In the image above, Jean is the White Phoenix of the Crown. Essentially, that’s her most evolved god-like form. The other variants are Jean as Dark Phoenix and Jean as Phoenix fused with a Venom symbiote. You can find these prints at booth 4901.
Dune: Part One – The Photography Insight Editions Insight Editions is bringing a number of new books to booth 2129. But we’ve got our eye on Dune: Part One – The Photography , an intimate look at Denis Villeneuve’s acclaimed film. Brian Herbert, the son of Dune author Frank Herbert, co-wrote the book with contributions from Chiabella James, Rebecca Ferguson, and Tanya Lapointe. In the book, you can expect to see “a remarkable visual journey that fully captures the unique spirit of the production.” Marvel Legends Series Deadpool & Bob, Agent of Hydra 2-Pack Hasbro Bob, Agent of Hydra, is one of the lesser-known members of Deadpool’s supporting cast. The short version is that Bob was a lowly agent of Hydra who was coerced by Deadpool into betraying his fellow agents and helping him escape. Since then, Bob has been Deadpool’s friend and occasional sidekick. And he’s finally getting his own action figure in Hasbro’s Comic-Con exclusive Marvel Legends Series Deadpool & Bob, Agent of Hydra Two-Pack.
The two-pack includes an alternate head, multiple accessories, and even a Hydra briefcase. You can find it at the Hasbro Pulse Desk at Booth No.3213.
G.I. Joe Classified Series Philip ‘Chuckles’ Provost Hasbro Since you may already be at booth 3213 for Bob and Deadpool, you may as well pick up this Hasbro exclusive as well. Meet Chuckles, one of the undercover operatives who works for G.I. Joe. He’s a fan-favorite who is known for his penchant for loud shirts and getting into some serious situations. Don’t underestimate the demand for this one. I am actually going to be in line for Chuckles on behalf of a friend who can’t make it to SDCC.
The Batman – Original Motion Picture Soundtrack 3XLP Mondo Batman has quite a musical legacy on the big screen from Danny Elfman to Hans Zimmer and the Dark Knight’s current composer, Michael Giacchino. At this year’s Comic-Con, Mondo is releasing Giacchino’s The Batman – Original Motion Picture Soundtrack 3XLP – SDCC Exclusive Gotham Glow Vinyl. This is a limited edition release of only 500, so come out early for this one.
Macross Shogun Warriors Skull Leader VF-1S Toynami The Shogun Warriors toy line brought characters from multiple anime properties together as figures in the ’70s. Toynami is continuing the line this year with the Macross Shogun Warriors Skull Leader VF-1S.
Macross is one of the three anime series that were edited together as Robotech in America, which is why Skull Leader VF-1S may look familiar to you. It’s super cool looking, and you can find it at booth 3229.
Batman Knightfall 30th Anniversary Gold Label Action Figure McFarlane Toys Thiry years ago, the Batman was broken by Bane in the landmark storyline Knightfall.
 To celebrate the occasion, McFarlane Toys is releasing a Batman Knightfall 30th Anniversary Gold Label Action Figure.
There are literally hundreds of Batman action figures, but this one is particularly striking. And it captures the spirit of Batman’s run during the ’90s. You can find it at the DC booth at 4645 on the convention center floor.
McFarlane Toys Star Wars: The Clone Wars Pre Vizsla Mini Bust Gentle Giant There are two busts at booth 2607 from Gentle Giant that are on our wish list. The first one is Star Wars: The Clone Wars Pre Vizsla Mini Bust. Pre Vizsla comes with the Darksaber, which is the mark of leadership of the Mandalorians. It’s limited to 750 pieces.
SDCC 2023 Indiana Jones Raiders of the Lost Ark Sepia Bust Gentle Giant And finally, Gentle Giant’s Indiana Jones bust closes out our list of the top SDCC exclusives. Indy comes with his customary whip and a torch. It’s also limited to 1,000 pieces.
Editors' Recommendations All the movies and TV shows announced at San Diego Comic-Con 2023 The top 10 moments of San Diego Comic-Con 2023, ranked 7 times Comic Con has appeared in pop culture The 7 best San Diego Comic-Cons, ranked The 10 most controversial moments at San Diego Comic-Con Comic Book Movies Comic-Con: Complete Coverage DC Comics Entertainment Perhaps no single event on the annual calendar is more closely associated with trailer drops than San Diego Comic-Con. As it has become more and more prominent, Comic-Con has become known for teases for all things adjacent to nerd culture, including fantasy films, sci-fi TV shows, and even the occasional video game.
Now it's true that, in the end, trailers are often just pieces of marketing. They're designed to get you excited about projects that may not ultimately be as good as the advertising for them would make them seem. Even so, being excited about new things is one of the great joys of being alive, and that's doubly true when it comes to those looking forward to whatever is coming down the pike in the nerdiest corners of pop culture. These are the best trailers to ever debut at Comic-Con because sometimes looking forward to a thing is better than the thing itself.
Black Panther -- 2017 Marvel Studios' Black Panther - Official Trailer Entertainment During its heyday, Comic-Con could host as many celebrities as the Oscars, and sometimes even more. What's more, sometimes those celebrities would go to absurd lengths to entertain the fans who had assembled for whatever upcoming project they were there to tease.
While trailers are well and good, and every Comic-Con has a few great moments, celebrities are ultimately the thing many people want to see the most. These are the 10 biggest celebrities to ever attend the convention.
Johnny Depp Entertainment San Diego Comic-Con has a long history, but it's only in more recent years that the event has become fodder for such extensive media coverage. At its core, Comic-Con is all about finding ways for the people behind nerd culture to connect with the genre's many fans. Naturally, this has led to a number of truly excellent panels over the long history of the event.
Even so, though, some Comic-Con moments live forever in a way that others don't. These are the panels that rise above the rest as the best in the history of Comic-Con.
Star Wars makes its debut MidAmeriCon (1976) Worldcon - Star Wars Q&A Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
