Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix F1 Live Stream Stranger Things Season 5 Best New Movies Most Popular Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney+ UFC Live Stream Best Movies on Disney+ Home Entertainment Guides 10 cool things to know about Ben Affleck’s canceled Batman movie By Anthony Orlando Close Before director Matt Reeves introduced a new vision of Gotham City in The Batman , Ben Affleck was set to helm the film based on a script he wrote centered around his version of Bruce Wayne in the DC Extended Universe. But as Affleck dealt with health issues and lost interest in directing the project and playing Batman, Reeves, and Warner Bros. continued steering in a different direction until an entirely new cinematic universe came to fruition with Robert Pattinson playing the Dark Knight.
Deathstroke is the villain Batgirl appears The story was inspired by David Fincher There is an epic final battle It explores Bruce’s mental health It has been compared to James Bond It has many acclaimed influences It is set mainly in Arkham Asylum It delves into Batman’s unexplored mythos It explores Robin’s death Though the final cut of The Batman is arguably one of the best films about the Caped Crusader, many “Snyderverse” fans can’t stop wanting to see what could’ve been. And while Affleck seems happy and healthy, having hung up his cape and cowl, one can’t help but want to see his canceled film based on the many cool things that have been revealed over the years.
Deathstroke is the villain Warner Bros. / Warner Bros.
Played by Joe Manganiello, Deathstroke made his big screen debut in Justice League , but it was Zack Snyder’s cut of the film that explicitly set up his confrontation with Batman after Lex Luthor revealed the latter is Bruce Wayne.
10 best horror movies of the 1980s, ranked 10 best Gotham episodes ever, ranked 10 facts you didn’t know about Tim Burton’s unmade third Batman film If Wilson appears delighted after learning this, it’s because the assassin blames the Dark Knight for the death of his son in some unknown incident. As a result , it was quite a surprise to see Batman and Deathstroke working together to defeat Darkseid in the epilogue of Zack Snyder’s Justice League.
Batgirl appears Warner Bros. / Warner Bros.
As many people know, Batgirl was going to be introduced to the DCEU in her very own film before it was notoriously shelved following Discovery’s merger with Warner Bros. However, Joe Manganiello revealed that she was once supposed to make her first appearance much, much sooner, as she would’ve become Batman’s partner in his battle against Deathstroke in his canceled film.
Batgirl appearing in this manner would’ve added some natural development to Bruce’s character, as he spent most of the DCEU flying solo in Gotham since the death of Robin.
The story was inspired by David Fincher Wikimedia Commons / Wikimedia Commons Since Affleck’s story was more of a psychological thriller, it’s no surprise that he took some cues from director David Fincher, who made such genre classics as Seven , Fight Club , and Zodiac.
 The narrative was specifically inspired by Fincher’s film, The Game , which follows a man who gets a birthday gift that throws his life into a tailspin as he becomes the target of a massive conspiracy.
The similarities are evident in The Batman’s original story, as Deathstroke would’ve done everything he could to ruin Bruce Wayne’s life as both a civilian and a vigilante. It’s also no surprise that Affleck was inspired by Fincher, given that he worked with the acclaimed director on 2014’s Gone Girl.
There is an epic final battle Warner Bros. / Warner Bros.
It’s common knowledge that superhero movies typically end with an explosive third act, and The Batman would’ve taken this trend to the extreme. After Deathstroke spends most of the film trying to destroy every part of Bruce’s life, the two of them engage in a thrilling final battle that takes them through the streets of Gotham.
Batman would’ve been overwhelmed by him, as he is able to match him in combat, but Batgirl would’ve swooped in to help battle Deathstroke. It’s an exciting conclusion, to say the least, with Manganiello describing Deathstroke as a horror movie villain akin to the shark from Jaws coming after Bruce at this point.
It explores Bruce’s mental health Warner Bros. / Warner Bros.
Batman’s mental health has been debated and analyzed for decades now, and Affleck’s film would’ve explored the Caped Crusader’s psyche in a way no other film had done before. Cinematographer Robert Richardson, who was hired to shoot the film, claimed that it would’ve gone into the “insanity aspects” of Bruce’s character and that audiences “would’ve seen something a little darker than what [they have] seen in the past and more into the individual, who was inside Batman – what element may be sane and what element may actually not be sane.” Fortunately, this psychoanalysis was carried on into Matt Reeves’s film, as it explores the harmful impact Bruce’s actions as Batman have caused and how he isn’t so different from the criminals he puts away.
It has been compared to James Bond United Artists / United Artists The Flash once dubbed Batman the “ James Bond of superheroes,” an apt comparison given his globe-trotting adventures, superb combat skills, and a seemingly endless supply of hi-tech gadgets.
Naturally, Matt Reeves described Ben Affleck’s film as an “action-driven” and James Bond-ian” adventure. Depicting the Dark Knight’s tale like one of 007’s missions is an interesting approach, one that Reeves traded for a more grounded, noir-style mystery surrounding the Riddler and Gotham’s criminal underworld.
It has many acclaimed influences Rocksteady Studios / Rocksteady Studios The story was particularly inspired by the infamous “Knightfall” storyline, which featured Batman’s brutal defeat at Bane’s hands, and Grant Morrison’s Arkham Asylum: A Serious House on Serious Earth.
The film was also influenced by the beloved Batman: Arkham Asylum video game (which was itself inspired by the latter comic) that showed the Dark Knight face off against his greatest enemies after getting trapped in the titular hospital. Speaking of which… It is set mainly in Arkham Asylum Warner Bros. / Warner Bros.
Though Arkham Asylum is a central piece of Batman’s world, it hasn’t been explored much in any of Batman’s live-action films, and it has only made a couple of fleeting appearances in the DCEU. However, it has been revealed that Affleck’s film would’ve primarily taken place in the notorious psychiatric hospital.
Such a setting seems fitting for this canceled tale, as it would’ve added tension to the psychological journey that Batman was supposed to go through. Also, who wouldn’t want to see Batman come across all of the deadliest villains that he put away in Arkham over the years? It delves into Batman’s unexplored mythos Warner Bros. / Warner Bros.
In a recent interview with Inverse , DC storyboard artist Jay Olivia, who worked on many of the DCEU’s early films, expressed his amazement at how Affleck’s shelved film took the Caped Crusader in a bold new direction.
“Ben’s story was gonna cover something that had never really been covered in comics but was building off of storylines in the Batman over the last 80 years and approaching it from a new kind of perspective,” said Olivia.
It explores Robin’s death Warner Bros. / Warner Bros.
Dick Grayson was noticeably absent from the DCEU, as it was revealed that the Joker killed and burned the Boy Wonder long before the events of Batman v Superman.
 His murder had a traumatic effect on Batman, as it drove him to break Joker’s teeth and become more violent and ruthless as a vigilante.
There were only small references to Robin’s death in DCEU, with Batman and the Joker discussing it at the end of Zack Snyder’s Justice League.
 However, The Batman ‘ s initial story would’ve explored this tragedy in greater detail.
Editors' Recommendations 7 things the MCU should do in a revised Multiverse saga The 10 darkest moments in the DCEU, ranked 10 best Justice League and Justice League Unlimited episodes ever, ranked 10 best movie superhero costumes, ranked 10 facts about Christopher Nolan’s Oppenheimer you should know Comic Book Movies DC Comics Entertainment Superhero movies often excel at making a grand entrance, hooking the audience within the first few minutes. They do so with some spectacular action scenes or just some thrilling or emotional moments that get viewers interested in seeing what's in store for them.
From the first Guardians of the Galaxy's giddy dance number to the brutal assassination of The Comedian in Watchmen, here's a list of the 10 best opening scenes in superhero movies.
10. Batman v Superman: Dawn of Justice (2016) Batman v Superman Dawn of Justice - Opening Scene (2016) Zack Snyder's crossover epic begins with Bruce Wayne recounting a dream he had about the death of his parents. This sequence juxtaposes Thomas and Martha's murders with Bruce's fall into a bat-filled cave, symbolizing his descent into grief following this tragedy. Each frame of this beautiful scene looks like a panel from an actual comic book, and the somber song that plays in this scene captures the loss of Bruce's innocence at the hands of a random criminal.
And with the swarm of bats carrying him into the light, audiences see his rise out of that darkness as Batman. But this proves to be a brief glimmer of hope, as the film later shows how far the Dark Knight has fallen after facing so much tragedy and heartbreak in the pursuit of this "beautiful lie." Entertainment At long last, after years of delays, DC's time-traveling blockbuster, The Flash, has reached theaters. When Barry Allen runs back in time to prevent his mother's murder, he ends up in a drastically different timeline without any heroes to protect the world from General Zod's invasion.
Given that the Flash travels the Multiverse and teams up with Michael Keaton's iconic version of Batman, this superhero film features an extraordinary number of Easter eggs that should give comic book fans a field day. To make it easier for viewers, here's a breakdown of all the DC references found in the Scarlet Speedster's first solo film.
Entertainment The Scarlet Speedster is no stranger to live-action DC entertainment. After all, fans of the CW's Arrowverse just spent a decade with Grant Gustin's iteration of the character during his highest highs and lowest of lows as a superhero in Central City. Ezra Miller's take on the Flash may prove divisive simply due to the hefty controversial baggage that follows the embattled actor in the media. Regardless, the Barry Allen of the DCEU was undoubtedly initiated into the fight against evil with his induction into the Justice League to help combat Steppenwolf, Darkseid's underling -- the true villainous powerhouse in the DC universe. Now, Miller is the leading man in his own film as the Flash alongside two Batmen and a revamped Supergirl.
The Flash was always meant to shake things up in the DCEU. for better or worse. After learning that the comic book event Flashpoint would be the basis of the film -- it's a story in which Barry alters reality by traveling through time to save his mom -- there wasn't any question that the ramifications of this storyline would reverberate throughout the DCEU. And with the DCEU label dead and buried, and the forthcoming James Gunn-led DCU set to bring about a new dawn for the heroes of DC, The Flash may create even more ripples than we initially thought. With the film upon us, you might be interested to learn a few facts surrounding the film as you head into your local theater.
1. The Flash is director Andy Muschietti's first big-budget film outside of horror Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
