Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix F1 Live Stream Stranger Things Season 5 Best New Movies Most Popular Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney+ UFC Live Stream Best Movies on Disney+ Home Entertainment Guides 10 most influential sci-fi movies ever By Anthony Orlando Close Science fiction films have had a massive impact on pop culture. Their thrilling and imaginative concepts have expanded the minds of many audiences, making them one of the highest-grossing genres in cinema today.
A Trip to the Moon (1902) Close Encounters of the Third Kind (1977) Alien (1979) E.T. the Extra-Terrestrial (1982) The Matrix (1999) Jurassic Park (1993) Superman: The Movie (1978) Blade Runner (1982) Star Wars (1977) 2001: A Space Odyssey (1968) And as technology becomes more and more advanced, including the tools for making movies, the line between fantasy and reality seems to fade with each sci-fi blockbuster. So, in the spirit of progress, let’s look at the 10 most influential sci-fi movies ever made.
A Trip to the Moon (1902) Star Film Company / Star Film Company As the first science-fiction movie ever created, this black-and-white short holds great importance in the world of cinema. Based on a story by Jules Verne, this picture follows a team of astronomers who launch themselves into the eye of the Moon and encounter the alien Selenites on the lunar surface. While this film is known more for its technical achievements, A Trip to the Moon still stands out as a goofy satire of imperialism and colonialism.
10 biggest sci-fi hits of all time, ranked by adjusted box-office gross From Barbarella to Howard the Duck: the 7 cheesiest sci-fi movies ever The 10 best worlds in sci-fi movies, ranked Close Encounters of the Third Kind (1977) Columbia Pictures / Columbia Pictures Directed by Steven Spielberg, this masterpiece follows a blue-collar worker and a single mother who encounter UFOs and try to solve the mystery behind them.
Featuring a well-crafted mystery and spellbinding visual effects, Close Encounters is a mind-boggling and poignant experience as the characters face an extraordinary and terrifying force bigger than any of them. Also, combined with the other sci-fi hits of its time, this blockbuster helped establish a greater market for films of the genre to succeed.
Alien (1979) 20th Century Studios / 20th Century Studios Awakened by a distress call from an alien shipwreck, the crew of the spaceship Nostromo discovers a parasitic life form onboard that wreaks havoc on their vessel with frightening cunning and brutality. Since cheesy alien horror films were commonplace in the ’50s and ’60s, Ridley Scott’s Alien redefined what kind of horror could come from the science fiction genre when it premiered.
Sophisticated but grotesque, simple but inventive, this film pushed the boundaries of what true terror can appear in cinema, with memories of the iconic “chestburster” scene imprinting themselves deep into the guts of countless viewers. The movie also introduced one of the great female leads in the sci-fi genre : Sigourney Weaver’s Ellen Ripley.
E.T. the Extra-Terrestrial (1982) Universal Pictures Another Spielberg classic, this film follows the titular alien after he gets left behind on Earth and bonds with a 10-year-old boy longing for companionship after his parents’ divorce.
E.T. the Extra-Terrestrial harnessed the magic of science fiction with its endearing and genuine depiction of a boy (played by then-child actor Henry Thomas ) helping his new friend return home to his family. In the end, E.T. touched the hearts of many with his magical, glowing finger, making him one of the most iconic characters in pop culture.
The Matrix (1999) Warner Bros. / Warner Bros.
When a computer hacker discovers the world he lives in is a computer simulation, he teams up with a band of kung-fu fighting rebels to battle the machines holding humanity hostage.
With revolutionary visuals and a thought-provoking story about reality and identity, The Matrix reinvented both the action and sci-fi genres just in time for the new millennium. Plus, countless other action movies have replicated its iconic “bullet time” sequence ever since its release.
Jurassic Park (1993) Murray Close/Sygma/Getty / Murray Close/Sygma/Getty When two paleontologists are invited to an amusement park filled with dinosaurs, they fight for survival when the prehistoric beasts break free from their pen.
Jurassic Park achieved great strides in cinema with its exhilarating story, unforgettable performances, and groundbreaking visual effects.
The latter, in particular, ushered in the age of computer-generated imagery as filmmakers utilized VFX technology for blockbuster pictures like the Star Wars prequels and The Lord of the Rings trilogy. Some may argue Jurassic Park isn’t a good movie , but they are in the minority as the film continues to entertain audiences to this day.
Superman: The Movie (1978) Warner Bros. / Warner Bros.
It’s hard to find anyone who doesn’t know this tale: A child sent to Earth from the dying planet Krypton grows up to use his godlike powers to protect his adopted home and face off against the evil Lex Luthor.
Though certain aspects of the film don’t hold up today, its mythical and emotional depiction of Superman’s origins still serves as the template for the many superhero films that have dominated theaters in the past two decades.
Blade Runner (1982) Warner Bros. / Warner Bros.
In Blade Runner ‘s dystopian future of 2019 , Rick Deckard is ordered out of retirement to hunt down and kill a group of rogue replicants who have arrived on Earth.
While the theatrical cut wasn’t so well received back in the ’80s, Blade Runner has since amassed an enormous cult following thanks to its inspired vision of humanity’s future, exploration of AI, and dazzling set design. As a result, this neo-noir opus has influenced many other cyberpunk stories throughout pop culture, saving it from becoming lost in time.
Star Wars (1977) Lucasfilm / Lucasfilm No one, not even director George Lucas, thought Star Wars would become the pop culture phenomenon it is today. This epic film introduced the world to the young Jedi Luke Skywalker as he set off to rescue Princess Leia and help the Rebels defeat Darth Vader and his evil Empire.
Due to its revolutionary special effects, inspired story, and memorable characters, Star Wars has long held a special place in the hearts of millions, and it continues to deliver many exhilarating tales from that galaxy far, far away.
2001: A Space Odyssey (1968) Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer / Image via Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer Created by director Stanley Kubrick and writer Arthur C. Clarke, 2001: A Space Odyssey follows a group of astronauts who venture to Jupiter to investigate an alien monolith that holds the secret behind humanity’s evolution.
From apes learning to use tools to Dave hurtling through the Stargate to the birth of the Star Child, this singular film depicts some of the most unforgettable images ever made for the silver screen. And with special effects that continue to influence filmmakers today, 2001 remains a timeless achievement of cinema that won’t dwindle anytime soon.
Editors' Recommendations 3 sci-fi movies on Peacock you need to watch in October 5 sci-fi movies on Netflix that need to be seen right now 10 best sci-fi movies of the 1980s, ranked DC Comics Sci-Fi Star Wars Entertainment November has been a great month for movies at Netflix, with the premiere of David Fincher's The Killer, and recent box office hits like Insidious: The Red Door and Spider-Man: Across the Spider-Verse. This week, the new additions include The Impossible, a 2012 survival thriller that has already landed on the list of the 10 most popular movies on Netflix. For younger viewers, Minions is also heating up the charts despite the pending departure of the other films in the franchise at the end of the month.
There's only one holiday weekend left in November, so what's the best way to stay on top of everything new on Netflix? Why, we are, of course. Our list of the best movies on Netflix right now is updated every Friday, even on holiday weekends, so you can easily find something for every movie lover in your life.
Entertainment Summer is long over, and the fall season is in full swing. It's now late 2023, and just about everyone is subscribed to Netflix and Hulu. But would you be surprised if I told you one of the most underrated streaming services around is Tubi? The upstart streamer has tons of new and old TV shows from every decade and every genre imaginable. Want to watch the buzziest series that aired on Max? Tubi has it. Are you feeling nostalgic about that old movie or cartoon you used to watch as a kid in the '80s or '90s? Chances are, Tubi has it.
Tubi has so much content that it can be hard to choose which shows and films are worth your time. Digital Trends is here to help you sort out which ones are worth watching. Even though the streaming service is free, time is valuable, and no one wants to waste it watching subpar content.
Entertainment Rather than waiting for the Thanksgiving holiday weekend, Apple TV+ and Netflix dropped two of their biggest shows of the fall this week. Netflix's The Crown kicked off its sixth and final season with four new episodes, while the Apple TV+ Godzilla-adjacent series Monarch: Legacy of Monster, dropped its first two episodes this week, with new episodes arriving weekly thereafter. Also this week, Scott Pilgrim Takes Off hits Netflix, while Max gets in on the act this week by premiering the second season of Julia.
Netflix, Amazon Prime Video, Hulu, Max, Apple TV+, Disney+, Paramount+, and Peacock still have new shows coming for the rest of November, including a handful arriving next week. But if you've been thinking about cutting back on your streaming bill, then perhaps you should consider signing up for the ad-supported tiers. In the meantime, keep reading for our weekly roundup of the best new shows to stream.
When you're done here, check out the best new movies to stream this week, as well as the best shows on Netflix, best shows on Hulu, best shows on Amazon Prime Video, and best shows on Disney+.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
