Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix F1 Live Stream Stranger Things Season 5 Best New Movies Most Popular Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney+ UFC Live Stream Best Movies on Disney+ Home Entertainment Guides 10 most powerful Justice League members, ranked from weakest to strongest By Anthony Orlando Close Over the years, the Justice League has recruited many different superheroes to combat evil. But since these great defenders rarely fight amongst themselves, it is difficult to determine the League’s hierarchy of power, especially since many of them are very much gods amongst humans. Nevertheless, the list below ranks the strength of the top 10 members of the Justice League.
10. Batman 9. Cyborg 8. The Flash 7. Aquaman 6. Green Lantern 5. Wonder Woman 4. Doctor Fate 3. Martian Manhunter 2. Shazam 1. Superman 10. Batman Image used with permission by copyright holder Though Batman is one of the leaders of the Justice League, Batman isn’t technically a superhero since he lacks special powers. Nevertheless, he is still one of the smartest and most skilled combatants on Earth. And with his seemingly endless amount of money and resources at his disposal, Batman can build weapons, armor, and vehicles that allow him to take on a myriad of superpowered foes, including Superman, who has starred in many memorable movies over the years.
For instance, in the comics, Batman created a contingency plan to defeat every member of the Justice League in case they ever turn against humanity, and he managed to subdue the League when the Joker brainwashed them into fighting him. This shows that when Batman has the time and the tools, there’s no one he can’t beat.
10 best Justice League and Justice League Unlimited episodes ever, ranked The 12 most powerful DCEU characters, ranked 9. Cyborg Image used with permission by copyright holder Though Cyborg started out as a member of the Teen Titans, he has since been known as one of the founding members of the Justice League, and why not? Having been fused with technology from the alien world, Apokolips, Cyborg has powers that rival those of the New Gods. He has been depicted with the ability to fly, fire a plasma cannon, generate extra limbs, and summon Boom Tubes to travel across dimensions.
He can also hack into any computer system on Earth, so he could even launch the planet’s nuclear arsenal and destroy everything if he wanted to. But the greatest thing about Cyborg is that he is constantly changing, allowing him to gain new abilities and become more powerful with each passing moment.
8. The Flash Image used with permission by copyright holder The Flash can harness the power of the Speed Force to run at super-fast speeds, heal quickly, summon lightning bolts, create tornadoes with his arms, and vibrate his way through solid matter. He can even use this cosmic energy to run back and forth through time, travel to other universes, and outrun Death itself.
As a result, there have been times when the Flash altered the fabric of reality by changing the past and creating drastically different timelines. While the Fastest Man Alive isn’t powerful in terms of physical strength, his powers as a Speedster still make him one of the most influential forces in the DC multiverse.
7. Aquaman Image used with permission by copyright holder Despite what many people believed in decades past, Aquaman is no joke. As an Atlantean, Arthur Curry possesses super strength and durability and can swim astonishingly fast and communicate with aquatic creatures.
With his enchanted trident, Aquaman’s powers are enhanced to the point that he can control every beast in the ocean and make them part of his undersea army. He can even use it to generate waves of energy and control water, making him the undisputed King of the Seven Seas.
6. Green Lantern Image used with permission by copyright holder Many have served as a member of the Green Lantern Corps, but Lanterns like Hal Jordan and John Stewart have acted as leading members of the Justice League over the years. While wearing their Power Rings, each Green Lantern can summon “constructs” of anything they set their mind to, based on their strength of will.
Hal Jordan was also able to emit kryptonite radiation with his ring, showing that they could go up against Superman himself. The Lanterns can even travel across the universe at incredible speeds and survive in any environment, making them one of the strongest protectors of the cosmos.
5. Wonder Woman Image used with permission by copyright holder Who will be the next Wonder Woman? No one knows. But what we do know is that Diana is immensely powerful. As the daughter of the Greek God Zeus, this immortal Amazon grew up to be one of the most formidable fighters on Earth. Not only can she fly, run super fast, and lift colossal objects, but she can also control anyone caught in her Lasso of Truth and generate a massive shockwave with her bulletproof Bracelets of Submission. She even takes after her father with her ability to control lightning.
Though Wonder Woman is already incredibly powerful, it was recently revealed in the comics that her bracelets are meant to contain her divine powers and keep them under control. Removing them would give her an incredible boost of power, which once allowed her to defeat the Goddess Artemis.
4. Doctor Fate Warner Bros.
Thanks to Black Adam , many audiences may now associate Doctor Fate with the Justice Society of America, but he has repeatedly served as a member of the Justice League in the comics. Having been granted divine power from the Lord of Order Nabu through the Helmet of Fate, Kent Nelson stands as one of the greatest sorcerers in the DC Universe.
Doctor Fate’s helmet grants him access to superhuman strength and durability, telepathy, telekinesis, and interdimensional travel. He can also shoot bolts of eldritch lightning, create force fields and other magical constructs, cast illusions, project his astral form, see the future, and even resurrect the dead. With so many magical powers at his disposal, Doctor Fate has rivaled the likes of Superman, Black Adam, and even the nigh-omnipotent Spectre, making him a magician who can make almost any foe disappear.
3. Martian Manhunter Image used with permission by copyright holder As the name implies, J’onn J’onzz is an alien hailing from the planet Mars who came to Earth and became a crimefighter while assuming a human identity. The Martian Manhunter’s strength is on a whole other level, as he was able to knock Shazam out cold, move the Earth out of its orbit with Superman and Wonder Woman, and destroy the Moon. Even Superman himself has stated in JLA (1997) #86 that J’onzz is the most powerful being on Earth.
Aside from incredible strength, Martian Manhunter’s powers include telepathy, flight, shapeshifting, telekinesis, phasing through solid objects, regeneration, and invisibility. However, while J’onzz has a wide variety of superpowers and is more than a match for Superman, like the Man of Steel, he also does have a strong weakness to a specific element: fire.
2. Shazam Image used with permission by copyright holder After being empowered by the wizard Shazam, Billy Batson was able to reach his full potential by saying his name and transforming into a champion of the gods. With the wisdom of Solomon, the strength of Hercules, the stamina of Atlas, the power of Zeus, the courage of Achilles, and the speed of Mercury, Shazam ranks amongst the most powerful superbeings in the universe.
The only thing that can harm Shazam’s magical body is magic, and Black Adam recently established the element Eternium as his version of Kryptonite (at least in the DCU). However, he is also held back by the fact that he is still just a child, with his naivety and inexperience being exploited by many adversaries over the years.
1. Superman Image used with permission by copyright holder Everyone saw this coming, right? Harnessing the power of Earth’s yellow sun, Superman is nigh-unstoppable on his adoptive planet. He can fly, lift heavy objects, use heat vision, move extraordinarily fast, and freeze objects with his breath. He has even displayed the ability to release heat energy from all over his body in a gigantic solar flare. On top of that, his body is durable to the point that not even a nuclear bomb can kill him.
All these powers have allowed him to go toe-to-toe with ultra-powerful Superman villains like Darkseid, General Zod, Brainiac, Black Adam, and Doomsday. While Superman’s greatest weakness is Kryptonite, he is also susceptible to magical spells and weapons, making him vulnerable to the powers of beings like Shazam and Doctor Fate. Nevertheless, these weaknesses are difficult to come by, and Superman’s seemingly boundless physical strength and years of experience hands-down make him the strongest member of the Justice League.
Editors' Recommendations The 10 darkest moments in the DCEU, ranked 10 best movie superhero costumes, ranked Comic Book Movies DC Comics Entertainment This week is a particularly memorable one for Netflix's original series with two big premieres. The Crown – the British drama that has been one of the most popular shows on Netflix since its premiere in 2016 – is heading towards the finish line with the premiere of its sixth and final season. Additionally, the cult classic film and comic, Scott Pilgrim vs. the World, is getting a new anime series, Scott Pilgrim Takes Off.
With the Thanksgiving holiday coming next week, there's never been a better time to catch up on what's new on Netflix. You may even need the breather because it's been a busy year for Netflix. Don't worry, our weekly update of the best shows on Netflix will always be updated on Fridays to help you plan your weekend binge.
Entertainment Warning: This article contains spoilers for Thanksgiving (2023).
Director Eli Roth’s new horror-comedy, Thanksgiving, ends as all slasher movies should: With a few last-minute twists. Its third act follows the film's protagonist, Jessica (Nell Verlaque), as she escapes a horrifying dinner party massacre orchestrated by Thanksgiving's masked killer and makes it to a nearby warehouse. Once there, she discovers her town’s sheriff, Eric Newlon (Patrick Dempsey), lying unconscious near his patrol car and, shortly thereafter, watches through one of the nearby warehouse’s windows as her ex-boyfriend, Bobby (Jalen Thomas Brooks), takes off the same mask worn by her murderous pursuer.
Entertainment he Hunger Games has remained a surprisingly powerful force in modern pop culture despite the fact that until just recently, there hadn't been a new movie in the franchise in almost a decade. Thanks to a few great slogans ("I volunteer as tribute," "May the odds be ever in your favor," etc.) and a compelling premise, the series still lives on in the imaginations of many people who loved the books and movies when they were initially a phenomenon.
With a new entry, The Hunger Games: The Ballad of Songbirds & Snakes, now in theaters, the franchise is now back in the zeitgeist. In addition, a recent surge in viewing on streaming platforms like Netflix and now Peacock makes this an ideal time to look back at The Hunger Games and remember the indelible characters that made this franchise so fascinating and moving.
10. Beetee Latier Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
