Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix F1 Live Stream Stranger Things Season 5 Best New Movies Most Popular Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney+ UFC Live Stream Best Movies on Disney+ Home Entertainment Guides 5 action movies on Max that are perfect to watch in the summer By Dan Girolamo Close The summer is all about the blockbuster.
 These types of movies are the perfect form of escapism. There’s nothing better than sitting in a cold theater on a hot summer day with a huge tub of popcorn as you prepare for a blockbuster to blow your mind. The action movie tends to be the best blockbuster because of the nonstop thrills and riveting entertainment.
Max Max 2 (1981) The Terminator (1984) Casino Royale (2006) Edge of Tomorrow (2014) The Batman (2022) It is important to get to your local theater and watch movies. However, there are ways to bring the blockbuster into your home. Here are five action movies available on Max that are perfect to watch over the summer.
Max Max 2 (1981) Village Roadshow In 2015, George Miller made one of the five best action movies of the 21st century with Mad Max: Fury Road.
 The film was praised for its exhilarating action and insane, fast-paced action sequences. The crazy thing is Miller also has an argument for the best action film of all time with Mad Max 2.
3 action movies on Netflix you need to watch in November 5 movies on Hulu that are perfect to watch in the fall 3 great action movies on Tubi you need to watch in October Originally known as The Road Warrior , Mad Max 2 sees the return of Mel Gibson’s Max Rockatansky, the policeman-turned-outlaw who avenged the death of his wife and son in the first film. Max, who now drives the highways of the Australian outback, agrees to help protect a group of peaceful settlers from a ruthless gang as they travel to a new home.
Mad Max 2 provided the blueprint for Fury Road : intense car chase sequences, high-octane action, and a rebellious Max Rockatansky.
Stream Mad Max 2 on Max.
The Terminator (1984) Orion Pictures “I’ll be back.” You can’t start a conversation about The Terminator without mentioning the iconic line. Now that we got that out of the way, The Terminator remains one of the most influential sci-fi action films ever. With all due respect to Piranha II: The Spawning , The Terminator introduced the world to James Cameron, a director with meticulous attention to detail and an innate understanding of action and spectacle.
In The Terminator, a cyborg assassin (Arnold Schwarzenegger) from 2029 is sent back to 1984 to kill Sarah Connor (Linda Hamilton), the mother of the unborn John Connor, the leader of the resistance who will ultimately save mankind from the machines. Kyle Reese (Michael Biehn) is also sent to 1984 by the resistance to protect Sarah. Thanks to an iconic performance from Schwarzenegger and multiple heart-pounding action scenes, The Terminator is a terrific adventure and a master class in sci-fi action filmmaking.
Stream The Terminator on Max.
Casino Royale (2006) Sony Pictures Releasing After 2002’s Die Another Day , the James Bond franchise desperately needed to change. While Goldeneye remains one of the better entries in the franchise, the next three Bond films starring Pierce Brosnan got progressively worse. They became too silly, almost bordering on parody, especially in Die Another Day.
(The overreliance on product placement is unforgivable.) Eon Productions listened to the criticisms from Die Another Day and rebooted the franchise, and the Broccoli family picked Daniel Craig to play a more serious, darker version of Bond.
Craig’s first film was 2006’s Casino Royale , the third film adaptation of Ian Fleming’s novel. Bond must track down Le Chiffre (Mads Mikkelsen), a private banker who finances global terrorism. Bond’s travels lead him to Montenegro, where he enters a high-stakes poker tournament at the Casino Royale to prevent Le Chiffre from winning millions that will fund terrorist organizations. From its edgy tone to the riveting action sequences, Casino Royale was a much-needed entry in the James Bond universe.
Stream Casino Royale on Max.
Edge of Tomorrow (2014) Warner Bros.
If there’ss one man who could conquer a time loop and save the world, it’s Tom Cruise. The Top Gun: Maverick star headlined Edge of Tomorrow , the sci-fi action film from 2014. Cruise stars as Major William Cage, a public relations officer forced by his superiors to fight against the Mimics (aliens) in a beach invasion. The intelligent Mimics are ready for the attack and destroy the humans, including Cage. However, Cage gets stuck in a time loop, reliving the previous day after each death.
Cage joins forces with Sgt. Rita Vrataski ( Oppenheimer ‘s Emily Blunt ), a talented operative who trains Cage to be an elite fighter. With each passing day, Cage grows stronger as he gains more intel on how to defeat the Mimics. Directed by Doug Liman, Edge of Tomorrow is a fresh addition to the time loop genre with invigorating action scenes and excellent chemistry between Cruise and Blunt.
Stream Edge of Tomorrow on Max.
The Batman (2022) Warner Bros.
After making two great Planet of the Apes movies, Matt Reeves continued to work on famous IP when he entered the world of Gotham City for The Batman.
 To differentiate the character from the previous Batman played by Ben Affleck, Reeves cast the younger Robert Pattinson to play a darker version of Bruce Wayne, who has only served as the caped crusader for two years. Batman must face his toughest opponent to date in the Riddler (Paul Dano), a serial killer who targets Gotham’s elite.
The Riddler leaves behind clues for Batman to solve as a way to spotlight his next victim.
The Batman is a much gritter version than in Christopher Nolan’s trilogy or Affleck’s version in Zack Snyder’s films. Yet, the result is a thrilling detective story with terrific action sequences.
Stream The Batman on Max.
Editors' Recommendations 5 bad 2000s action movies that you still need to watch right now 5 sci-fi movies on Netflix you need to watch in November 5 Netflix movies that are perfect to watch in the fall 5 movies leaving Netflix in October you have to watch 3 great action movies on Max you need to watch in October Comic Book Movies DC Comics Sci-Fi Entertainment Netflix continues to bolster its action content with the passing of each month as new films arrive to entertain the streamer's at-home audience. From historical epics like Gladiator and Saving Private Ryan to action thrillers like The Fast and the Furious and Luther: The Fallen Sun, Netflix offers a variety of films to satisfy all action lovers.
We handpicked three action films that should be saved to your Netflix queue and watched in October. These action films include the fourth entry in the Mission: Impossible franchise, an epic saga starring Viola Davis, and the first superhero film in a trilogy that changed the genre.
Mission: Impossible – Ghost Protocol (2011) Entertainment Action movies have long been some of the most popular and beloved pictures in cinema history, and they wouldn't have gotten to where they are today without some incredible innovators. Acclaimed directors like John Woo (Face/Off), the Wachowskis (The Matrix), and John McTiernan (Die Hard) have given audiences some memorable movies featuring explosions, shootouts, car crashes, sword battles, and kung fu fights, and these all sometimes happen in the same scene.
But these films aren't just shots of mindless action spliced together. Out of the many directors who have created countless action movies, only a select few have had enough precision, resources, and imagination to make beautiful and thoughtful masterpieces of the genre. Specifically, these five directors brought audiences some of cinema's greatest action movies, and their work should serve as examples for film students who aspire to do the same.
5. James Cameron Entertainment The turn of the calendar brings a fresh selection of movies to Netflix. Many of these films end up on Netflix’s 10 most popular movies shortly after their arrival. Sci-fi films, in particular, have done well on the service, with recent additions Dredd and Arrival occupying spots in the top 10.
Below, we curated a list of five sci-fi movies on Netflix to watch in October. The list includes Dune, the 2021 sci-fi epic from Denis Villeneuve; Bird Box, the 2018 dystopian thriller that became a global phenomenon; and War of the Worlds, the action thriller based on one of the most influential sci-fi novels.
Dune (2021) Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
