Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix F1 Live Stream Stranger Things Season 5 Best New Movies Most Popular Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney+ UFC Live Stream Best Movies on Disney+ Home Entertainment Guides Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? All the Batman animated shows, ranked By Blair Marnell Close Next year, DC will celebrate the 85th anniversary of Bill Finger and Bob Kane’s most famous creation, Batman.
 That’s closing in fast on nine decades, and yet in all of those years, there have only been eight Batman animated shows to date. A ninth show, Batman: Caped Crusader , was in development at Max until Warner Bros. Discover cast it aside and allowed Prime Video to pick it up for at least two seasons. But we’ll have to wait until next year to see how that show turns out.
8. Batwheels (2022-Present) 7. The New Adventures of Batman (1977–78) 6. The Batman (2004–2008) 5. Beware the Batman (2013–2014) 4. Batman: The Brave and the Bold (2008–2011) 3. Batman Beyond (1999–2001) 2. The New Batman Adventures (1997–99) 1. Batman: The Animated Series (1992-95) When putting together this list, we decided to focus only on the shows where Batman was clearly the lead character. Other animated series, including Super Friends and Justice League , may have featured Batman, but he wasn’t always in the primary role. The only way to properly rank all of the Batman animated shows is by focusing on the ones that are actually about Batman. And if you know your Dark Knight adventures, then you probably won’t be too surprised by how this list turned out.
8. Batwheels (2022-Present) Cartoon Network Ethan Hawke voices Batman on Batwheels , with A.J. Hudson as Duke Thomas/Robin and Leah Lewis as Cassandra Cain/Batgirl. However, the central conceit of the show is that the vehicles of the Bat-family and their villains have all come to life and they’ve become anthropomorphic talking cars, jets, cycles, and so on. Thus, the Batwheels team is led by Batmobile a.k.a. Bam (Jacob Bertrand), alongside Batgirl’s cycle, Bibi (Madigan Kacmar), Robin’s Redbird a.k.a. Red (Jordan Reed), a Bat Truck (Noah Bentley), and even the Batwing (Lilimar).
All The Exorcist movies & TV shows, ranked 5 great anime shows to watch if you like One Piece Who is Batman’s best sidekick? All the Dynamic Duos, ranked The thing you have to keep in mind about Batwheels is that adults and teenagers are not the target audience. This is a series that was created for preschoolers, and its sensibilities reflect that. If you have really young kids, they may love Batwheels.
 And that’s great. It’s always good to create future Batman fans at an early age. But when compared to all of the other Batman animated series that have been produced, Batwheels places dead last.
Watch Batwheels on Max.
7. The New Adventures of Batman (1977–78) Filmation The New Adventures of Batman is the very first animated series to feature the Dynamic Duo on their own. Appropriately for the era, Adam West and Burt Ward reprised their roles as Batman and Robin from the 1966 Batman live-action series. Melendy Britt replaced the great Yvonne Craig as Batgirl, and she also voiced Catwoman.
This series marked the animated debut of Bat-Mite (Lou Scheimer), a magic imp from another dimension whose attempts to help the Bat-family often backfired in his face. Voice over actor Lennie Weinrib really worked overtime on this show, as he portrayed Commissioner Gordon, Joker, Penguin, Clayface, and more characters. For its moment in time, the show wasn’t bad. It just wasn’t all that a Batman show could be.
Rent or buy The New Adventures of Batman on Google Play , Prime Video , and Apple TV+.
6. The Batman (2004–2008) Warner Bros. Animation Some fans may be upset that The Batman has placed so low on our list. This show does have its admirers, and it had the misfortune of arriving barely a few years after The New Batman Adventures and Batman Beyond finished their final runs. Everyone loved the previous take on Batman, but The Batman felt like several steps in reverse. For one thing, the much younger Batman (Rino Romano) wasn’t quite as grim or intense. And the motivations and personalities of the villains felt simplified and watered down compared to Batman: The Animated Series.
Regardless, The Batman put together a solid five-season run that pit the title hero against new incarnations of his familiar rogues’ gallery including Joker (Kevin Michael Richardson), Penguin (Tom Kenny), Catwoman (Gina Gershon), Mr. Freeze (Clancy Brown), Firefly (Jason Marsden), the Ventriloquist and Scarface (Dan Castellaneta), and Man-Bat (Peter MacNicol). It’s far from the worst version of Batman, but also far from the best.
Watch The Batman on Max and Netflix.
5. Beware the Batman (2013–2014) Warner Bros. Animation Compared to most of the other series on this list, Beware the Batman only had a very short run. It has the distinction of being the first computer-animated Batman cartoon, as well as the series that attempted to course-correct back to a more serious take on the Dark Knight. Additionally, Beware the Batman stayed away from Batman’s traditional villains in favor of lesser-known foes like Professor Pyg (Brian George), Anarky (Wallace Langham), and Magpie (Grey DeLisle-Griffin).
Anthony Ruivivar provided the voice of Batman/Bruce Wayne in this series. And in one of the show’s biggest departures from canon, Katana a.k.a. Yamashiro Tatsu (Sumalee Montano) was introduced as the goddaughter of Bruce’s loyal butler, Alfred Pennyworth (JB Blanc), and the new partner of Batman. Despite its short shelf life, this was an underrated series. It deserved to have additional seasons.
Watch Beware the Batman on Max.
4. Batman: The Brave and the Bold (2008–2011) Warner Bros. Animation Although Batman: The Brave and the Bold was clearly meant to be a more family-friendly take on the world’s most famous superhero, it’s actually pretty true to the spirit of a lot of the Golden Age and Silver Age Batman comic book stories. Diedrich Bader also turned out to be an inspired choice to play Batman, a role he has reprised on Max’s Harley Quinn animated series. Bader’s Batman is just serious enough to be in character, and yet he’s not out of place in The Brave and the Bold ‘s more comedic stories. That’s because Batman himself is never treated like a joke.
The big idea behind this show was teaming up Batman with other heroes, including Green Arrow (James Arnold Taylor), Plastic Man (Tom Kenny), Blue Beetle (Will Friedle), and a truly hilarious take on Aquaman as voiced by Futurama ‘s John DiMaggio. Batman even got to reunite with Scooby-Doo and join forces with Space Ghost (Gary Owens)! That’s the best kind of crazy.
Watch Batman: The Brave and the Bold on Max.
3. Batman Beyond (1999–2001) Warner Bros. Animation Supposedly the mandate from Kids WB was for a younger Batman. The result of that request was Batman Beyond , a sequel series to Batman: The Animated Series and The New Batman Adventures that advanced the timeline by 50 years. Kevin Conroy reprised his role as Bruce Wayne, who had long since retired from his role as Batman. In this new era, a new Dark Knight took the mantle. A teenager named Terry McGinnis (Will Friedle) accidentally discovered Bruce’s secret identity. Shortly thereafter, Terry’s father was murdered and he was well on his path towards becoming the next Batman.
For the most part, this series gave Terry his own Batman villains and only occasionally reintroduced the classic bad guys. The animation was also stunning and beautifully assembled. Although the series ended somewhat abruptly after three seasons, Terry and Bruce’s story did receive closure years later in “Epilogue,” the season 2 finale of Justice League Unlimited.
 That was the episode that unveiled the hidden secrets of Project Batman Beyond and helped solidify Terry’s place in the Batman mythology.
Watch Batman Beyond on Max.
2. The New Batman Adventures (1997–99) Warner Bros. Animation It’s a common misconception that Batman: The Animated Series and The New Batman Adventures are the same series. Even Max plays into that misunderstanding by dropping all of The New Batman Adventures episodes as the third season of the previous series. Most of the cast and creative team remained intact, but the heroes, the villains, and the world around them received a visual upgrade and redefined character models for the show’s premiere on Kids WB.
The New Batman Adventures wasn’t always as consistent with its storytelling as Batman: The Animated Series.
 But a handful of episodes, including Over the Edge (pictured above) are easily some of the best Batman stories ever put to animation. Even the origin of Harley Quinn, which was previously established in the Mad Love comic book one-shot, was faithfully recreated to great effect in this series. That’s one of the biggest reasons why The New Batman Adventures has the second-highest placement on this list.
Watch The New Batman Adventures on Max.
1. Batman: The Animated Series (1992-95) Warner Bros. Pictures To no one’s surprise, Batman: The Animated Series remains the best version of the Dark Knight’s cartoon adventures. When it premiered on Fox in 1992, few were prepared for just how breathtaking and innovative it was. This series was created in part to capitalize on the Tim Burton Batman movies, but it quickly morphed into its own fully realized incarnation of DC’s iconic character. This show also marked the first time that Conroy portrayed Batman/Bruce Wayne, a role that would define his career for the following three decades across the subsequent animated series, animated movies, and video games.
Star Wars actor Mark Hamill also had his second role of a lifetime (after Luke Skywalker) on this series as the voice of the Joker, a part he reprised several times alongside Conroy over the years. Additionally, this was the series that introduced Harley Quinn (the late Arleen Sorkin), an anti-heroine whose popularity has made her a leading character in her comic books, an animated TV series, and the DCEU movies.
Most of all, Batman: The Animated Series won over fans of all ages with its wonderful storytelling, lush animation, fantastic voice talent, and the cinematic scores by the late Shirley Walker. This show remains the gold standard for every Batman cartoon that came after it. We have high hopes for Prime Video’s Batman: Caped Crusader in 2024. But it will take a lot to unseat Batman: The Animated Series from number one on our list.
Watch Batman: The Animated Series on Max.
Editors' Recommendations 10 best animated TV shows for adults ever made 10 best Justice League and Justice League Unlimited episodes ever, ranked Who should play Robin in the Batman: The Brave and the Bold movie? 5 animated shows on Netflix you need to watch in August 10 best Batman stories ever, ranked Comic Book Movies DC Comics Entertainment In 1984, Kevin Eastman and Peter Laird created the Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles as a one-off comic book that found extraordinary success despite being self-published by two unknown comic creators. Three years later, Turtlemania was born when the first Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles animated series hit the airwaves. And while the franchise has waxed and waned over the following 36 years, it's never completely gone away. There have been multiple animated shows, two different live-action film series, and several reboots. It seems like every generation gets its own TMNT.
For this generation, Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles: Mutant Mayhem may be the definitive TMNT. It's a film that actually focuses on the Turtles' youth and their desire to live openly among humans. And while we can't judge that film until we actually see it, we can revisit all of the previous adaptations. That's why we've put together this list of all of the Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles movies and TV shows while ranking them from worst to first.
12. Ninja Turtles: The Next Mutation (1997) Entertainment The Dark Knight and the Boy Wonder have formulated one of the superhero genre's most iconic partnerships in comic book history. The Dynamic Duo is a well-oiled machine kickin' villainy butt and taking names. It's easy to reflect on the golden age iconography surrounding the partnership's more lighthearted era. But make no mistake, the few young lads who have donned the Robin duds over the past several decades have gotten their hands dirty.
Batman and Robin underscore just one of many partnerships the Caped Crusader has formed during his time under the cowl. With the DCU's film The Brave and the Bold on the distant horizon, there's plenty of speculation to be had. Mostly, it's hard not to wonder what a modern Batman and Robin team-up film might look like. But the name of the film is a clear reference to an era of comics that saw the Dark Knight working in tandem with heroes to deliver justice. In fact, there's a treasure trove of comic books to soak up while we wait for the film to hit theaters. Here are 5 of the best.
Batman: The Brave and the Bold No. 1 (2023) Entertainment DC may have yet to master making live-action films, but it sure knows how to do animation. The House of Batman and Superman has one-upped Marvel by making numerous animated movies over the years, many of which don't get the recognition they deserve.
To put that into perspective, DC has built not one but two cinematic universes following various characters in the past decade. DC fans looking for something better might want to check out these eight animated movies.
Justice League Dark: Apokolips War (2020) Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
