Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix F1 Live Stream Stranger Things Season 5 Best New Movies Most Popular Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney+ UFC Live Stream Best Movies on Disney+ Home Entertainment Guides Who is Batman’s best sidekick? All the Dynamic Duos, ranked By Christopher Hinton Close The Dark Knight is an unstoppable force. The bad guys usually don’t stand a chance against his intellect, combat expertise, and arsenal of expensive toys. For decades, Batman has been kicking butt and taking names across Gotham City.
 But while the Caped Crusader began this daring venture with a little bit of pocket change, a dash of determination, and his very own vision, he hasn’t been alone in his superheroics.
7. Jason Todd (Robin/Red Hood) 6. James Gordon 5. Tim Drake (Robin/Red Robin) 4. Carrie Kelley (Robin) 3. Catwoman 2. Dick Grayson (Robin/Nightwing) 1. Damian Wayne (Robin) Batman has enlisted the help of multiple sidekicks over the years — the most famous of which goes by the moniker of Robin. But even the position of Boy Wonder has been shared by multiple lads and even a red-headed young lass. So, that begs the question: Which of Batman’s plethora of sidekicks over the years is the best? Stick with us while we dive into Batman’s seven best sidekicks and rank them from a total liability to supremely bat-tastic.
7. Jason Todd (Robin/Red Hood) DC Comics Batman’s original young ward, Dick Grayson, grew out of the tights and the Boy Wonder schtick. He’d eventually want to lead a superhero life on his own terms, and that’s exactly what he did. When Dick graduated from Robin to Nightwing, Batman was left without a partner. So, he adopted a new teenage crime-fighter in the form of Jason Todd. He found this wayward boy on the streets attempting to steal the tires off of the Batmobile. Instead of scolding young Jason, he took him under his wing.
All the Batman animated shows, ranked 10 best Gotham episodes ever, ranked 10 facts you didn’t know about Tim Burton’s unmade third Batman film Jason is an aggressive fighter and isn’t endlessly boisterous and optimistic like his predecessor. In contrast to Dick’s quiet obedience, Jason never missed a moment to be snarky toward his mentor, which caused some fans to actively dislike him. The good folks at DC understood this and enacted an unforgettable storyline in 1988 where Jason’s life was put on the line. The Joker had nabbed the youngster and was beating him mercilessly. The Dark Knight raced to his rescue. However, it was up to the readers whether Jason lived or died. Fans had to call a number and place a vote. As history shows us, the results were pretty grim for Jason, though he would later be resurrected and return to Gotham as the vindictive and lethal vigilante Red Hood.
6. James Gordon DC Comics Perhaps one of Batman’s biggest champions in Gotham City is none other than police commissioner James Gordon. Because the Caped Crusader earned his trust, Gordon helps make Batman’s crusade possible by keeping the police force off his back regarding his perceived illegal activities. In many instances, Gordon has assisted Batman in some of the hero’s dangerous cases, putting his own life on the line.
Of course, crime-fighting in a city filled with crazed supervillains has its drawbacks. It all hit a bit close to home during The Killing Joke storyline written by famed comic book author Alan Moore. Joker attacks Gordon’s daughter, Barbara (who is also Batgirl), in her own home, leaving her paralyzed. He then captures the lawman himself and torments him with images of his injured daughter while maniacally beating him. While Joker’s goal was to break Gordon, it likely only solidified his furor and pursuit of justice in Gotham.
5. Tim Drake (Robin/Red Robin) DC Comics In 1989, following the death of Jason Todd, Tim Drake was bestowed the mantle of Robin. To modern readers and Batman fans, he is likely the most familiar Robin. Many of Batman’s biggest storylines in the 1990s, like Knightfall , featured Tim Drake as the Boy Wonder. After replacing Jason Todd, DC writers brought Tim Drake more in line with Dick Grayson’s persona. They even tied his earliest moments to Dick’s origins as a crime-fighter; in the quasi-retcon, Tim Drake was just a little boy sitting in the audience watching the Flying Graysons the day Dick lost his parents.
Tim would be heavily featured in the continuation of Batman: The Animated Series, dubbed The New Batman Adventures.
 He’s also the Robin of choice in the long-running DCEU series Young Justice.
 During video game developer Rocksteady’s trilogy of Batman: Arkham games , Tim was the current Robin aiding Batman in his fight to protect Gotham from Scarecrow. Without a doubt, Tim has earned his stripes as Robin, and later as superhero vigilante Red Robin.
4. Carrie Kelley (Robin) DC Comics While The Dark Knight Returns isn’t considered mainline canon by DC Comics, it is, perhaps, the greatest Batman story ever told.
 That is, in part, thanks to Frank Miller’s colorful cast of characters that all manage to pull their weight in the unfolding drama. Carrie Kelley isn’t the only female to ever don the Robin duds. Stephanie Brown briefly took on the title of Robin once it was vacated by Tim Drake. But Carrie is absolutely the most memorable Girl Wonder she aids the Dark Knight in his war against the Mutant gang and preventing Gotham from collapsing into chaos amid a Russian EMP attack.
The difference with Carrie is that Bruce didn’t find her — she found Bruce. Enamored by this aged vigilante who is aiming to vanquish the threat of the Mutant gang, she follows him and eventually saves him from certain death. From this point forward, she earns Batman’s trust and he always regards her as a “good soldier” doing what she knows to be right in the moment. Carrie is an important piece of the Batman legacy, and a worthy addition to the Batman Sidekick Hall of Fame.
3. Catwoman DC Comics Batman represents the virtue of justice. Morally, he draws a line in the sand that he never crosses for fear of the dam bursting wide open on all actions that are unsavory. However, Catwoman is one frequent partner that he remains conflicted over mostly due to her penchant for straddling the line between hero and full-blown criminal. Selina Kyle, the woman under the feline mask and jumpsuit, often lies to herself, stating she’s only looking after her own interests. But we know better.
Catwoman has a soft spot for the Dark Knight, and the two even have a romantic connection on many occasions. And while she often claims to not care about anyone else, she usually manages to do the right thing — even if she steals a few valuable items along the way. As a combatant, Catwoman is skilled, brutal, and formidable. There’s a reason she often slips through the fingers of both villains and Batman alike despite her fondness for the Caped Crusader. This ultimately makes her an important ally for Batman when the time arises and one-half of the spiciest Batman team-up.
2. Dick Grayson (Robin/Nightwing) DC Comics It’d be difficult to not regard Dick Grayson’s Robin highly. After all, he is the original Boy Wonder and the other half of the famed Dynamic Duo. As Batman’s most famous partner, Dick has always had a good head on his shoulders. In all of his depictions, including comic books, television series like the 1960s Batman show or Batman: The Animated Series , and in film ( Batman Forever and Batman and Robin ), he is always depicted as loyal and a true apprentice to Bruce Wayne’s Batman.
A childhood as Robin prepared him for the day when he could strike it out on his own as Nightwing. Even then, he’d still bump shoulders with Batman on occasion in an effort to solve cases and fight bad guys. As a character, Dick Grayson is Batman’s oldest ally and a truly important one in Batman’s narrative.
1. Damian Wayne (Robin) DC Comics At the top of our list is Damian Wayne — the latest and greatest Robin in the bunch. Created by famed comic book author Grant Morrison, Damian Wayne is, indeed, the son of Batman. However, Bruce was unaware of his existence for a decade. Raised by his mother, Talia al Ghul, Damian Wayne was trained from an extremely young age to defeat corruption as a killer within the League of Assassins.
When Batman took this child soldier under his wing as Robin, it became instantly clear that Damian had a problem with Batman’s methods. All of his life, he was trained to be led by his own instincts, and his instincts tell him that criminals must pay with their lives. He often challenges his father’s methods by his willingness to kill. However, throughout the course of his career as Robin, Damian eventually bonds with his father while slowly shedding his “League of Assassins” ideology. That’s ultimately what makes this multilayered character the most fascinating and effective ally Batman will ever have.
Editors' Recommendations 10 worst action heroes ever, ranked The 10 darkest moments in the DCEU, ranked 10 best Justice League and Justice League Unlimited episodes ever, ranked 10 best movie superhero costumes, ranked Who should play Robin in the Batman: The Brave and the Bold movie? Comic Book Movies DC Comics Entertainment It's not very often that we get a film where a young adult is bestowed with great power and must pursue a higher calling for the sake of those around him. Alright, maybe that has happened quite a bit in the past decade with a myriad of Spider-Man films, two Shazam! movies, the recent Ms. Marvel series, and more. But Blue Beetle isn't just a simple story of tragedy or superheroics, it's ultimately a tale about the strength that lies within the bonds of family.
Actor Xolo Maridueña (Cobra Kai) steps into an alien bio-organic suit as young Jaime Reyes and is gifted with seemingly limitless power. He must now stop a corrupt corporation led by the sister of the famous previous Blue Beetle, Ted Kord, from developing weapons capable of razing the Earth. But at the end of the day, his true strength lies in the power of his familial connections. There are no throwaway characters in Blue Beetle. Everyone, including each and every person in Jaime's family, plays an integral role in the narrative. That's the beauty of Blue Beetle. With that said, let's take a look at the film's best characters.
Entertainment Get ready for the Blue Beetle - a teen superhero named Jaime Reyes who is fused with an alien scarab that gives him a radical bio-organic blue suit with advanced weapons systems and a metric ton of power. Blue Beetle may not be as well known as Batman or Wonder Woman, but he's about to have his chance in the limelight with his self-titled theatrical debut. One hopes that Blue Beetle fares better than DC's other recent cinematic flops including Black Adam, Shazam! Fury of the Gods, and The Flash.
Still, fans new and old can celebrate the Blue Beetle outside the movie theater with countless stories, TV series, and even a fighting video game from the makers of Mortal Kombat. That's right, you can blast a hole through your DC opponents as Blue Beetle in Injustice 2. Jaime Reyes is still a fairly recent incarnation of the superhero. However, the Blue Beetle has a long history that includes two previous owners of the mysterious Scarab who also fought for justice. You just have to know where to look for the best stories out there, and DT is here to help you with that endeavor.
5. Infinite Crisis Entertainment Bounding from rooftop to rooftop, the Dark Knight never misses his mark. He operates like a well-oiled machine tracking bad guys, beating them to a bloody pulp, and throwing them in the slammer - or Arkham Asylum should they be anyone of Gotham's notable supervillains. As the brainchild of Bob Kane and Bill Finger, an artist and writer duo, Batman has been pounding the pavement of Gotham ever since his debut in Detective Comics in 1939. He's undergone a number of changes since his original conception ultimately becoming the brooding powerhouse we know today.
Most understand the basic tenants of Batman these days. His parents were murdered before his young eyes leading him down this path of personal vindication and pursuit of justice. Batman, in most iterations, never resorts to killing -- the one crime that separates his outlaw vigilante operations from the real criminals. Of course, it wasn't always that way. In Batman's earliest days, he had no qualms about ending the lives of baddies on the streets. Even now, some stories and films like Tim Burton's gothic take on the character depict him looking on with cold and uncaring glares as criminals meet their end. Regardless, Batman is mostly a well-established hero simply seeking justice and there are countless stories of the Caped Crusader. Let's take a look at the best among them.
10. Hush Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
