Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix F1 Live Stream Stranger Things Season 5 Best New Movies Most Popular Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney+ UFC Live Stream Best Movies on Disney+ Home Entertainment Features Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? It’s Barbenheimer time: The best double feature movies like Barbie and Oppenheimer By Jason Struss Close Warner Bros./Universal We live in strange times.
Elon Musk runs Twitter like it is his own personal blog. Actors and writers are striking against unfair working conditions to an uncaring, streaming-obsessed studio system. And the phenomenon known as “Barbenheimer” is finally upon us, threatening to overtake all of social media and pop culture as we know it.
The Dark Knight and Mamma Mia! (July 18, 2008) Superman Returns and The Devil Wears Prada (June 28, 2006) Mad Max: Fury Road and Pitch Perfect 2 (May 15, 2015) Tarzan and Run Lola Run (June 16, 1999) Sleepless in Seattle and What’s Love Got To Do With It (May 25, 1993) Barbenheimer is the result of two movies, Greta Gerwig’s feminist comedy Barbie and Christopher Nolan’s somber nuclear war drama Oppenheimer , completely different in subject matter, style, and tone, being released on the same day. While the fever pitch of Barbenheimer is a first, the concept of counterprogramming is, of course, nothing new in Hollywood. The following list is a compilation of two wildly different movies released at the same time that make great double features to watch as well. These five movie duos, from superheroes and musically-inclined wedding parties to animated ape-men and post-modern techno-thrillers, are noteworthy antecedents to Barbenheimer and also a great way to pass the time.
The Dark Knight and Mamma Mia! (July 18, 2008) Warner Bros. / Warner Bros.
Before Barbenheimer, there was ABBA Batman. Two movies can’t be more dissimilar than The Dark Knight and Mamma Mia! , and like Barbie and Oppenheimer after it, that’s part of the appeal of watching them back-to-back. Enough has been written about The Dark Knight to fill a small library. Let’s just say the Christopher Nolan movie still holds up after all these years, particularly in its depiction of a city on the verge of chaos thanks to one individual, Heath Ledger’s Joker , who is willing to call out the moral hypocrisies of the powers that be that keep it running.
Why The Dark Knight is still the best comic book movie of all time Best movies of the 2010s, ranked by IMDB Time has been kind to Mamma Mia! as well. When it was first released, it was seen as something of a joke. Who wants to see Meryl Streep singing ABBA tunes in a small Greek village? Yet the sheer silliness of Mamma Mia! ‘s plot, and indeed its very existence, is a large part of its charm. It doesn’t matter that half the cast can’t dance or sing. (Poor Pierce Brosnan is a wonderful James Bond , but can’t carry a tune at all.) What does matter is that everyone is having a blast, and the feeling is infectious. Whereas The Dark Knight forced people to confront their fears and anxieties, Mamma Mia! is pure, sunny escapism, and a necessary come-down from the Batman sequel’s unrelenting intensity.
Superman Returns and The Devil Wears Prada (June 28, 2006) 20th Century Fox Another superhero-and-Meryl Streep combo, although this time, it’s Meryl’s movie that’s more intense and alarming, especially for those who’ve endured bad bosses in their careers. Yes, I’m actually recommending you watch The Devil Wears Prada first; sure, it’s fun and frothy, but its comedic take on the boss-from-hell trope still warrants the top slot.
Prada is probably the most effortless movie ever made; it hums along, and never gets too old even on the 20th rewatch. (And yes, I’ve watched it that many times.) Also, you can secretly replace Kevin Spacey with Meryl as Superman villain Lex Luthor when you watch the deeply flawed Superman Returns.
 That movie, one of DC’s many, many, many failed feature attempts to replicate comic book magic, is still worth watching, if only for Brandon Routh’s gentle portrayal of the Man of Steel and Parker Posey’s looney evil sidekick Kitty Kowalski. Both movies together represent a Hollywood that doesn’t really exist anymore, one that didn’t always focus on building cinematic worlds, stuffing gratuitous cameos in bad films, or male-centric movies.
Mad Max: Fury Road and Pitch Perfect 2 (May 15, 2015) Mad Max: Fury Road Village Roadshow Pictures War boys and glee club fans were united for the first and last time on May 15, 2015, when Warner Bros. released one of the best action movies ever made , Mad Max: Fury Road , with Universal’s superior sequel in their acapella franchise, Pitch Perfect 2.
Fury Road ‘s legend is such that an oral history about its creation, Blood, Sweat, & Chrome: The Wild and True Story of Mad Max: Fury Road , was released last year, and reminded everyone just how awesome it is. I don’t need to repeat all of its merits here, except to say Charlize Theron gave one of the best action movie performances since Sigourney Weaver in Aliens , and she’ll forever have a place in cinematic Valhalla for her fierce Furiosa.
As for Pitch Perfect 2, it does what sequels should do: doubles down on what made the original so good but with a bigger budget and more confidence from its cast and crew. Actress Elizabeth Banks made her directorial debut with this sequel, and it’s led her to make more diverse and interesting films like this year’s Cocaine Bear.
 After roughing it in a post-apocalyptic landscape for a couple of hours, it’s good to spend some time with Pitch Perfect 2 ‘s warring singing groups who care more about winning a competition rather than staying alive in a remote desert like Fury Road ‘s characters.
Tarzan and Run Lola Run (June 16, 1999) Arte Pictures 1999 was a great year for movies of all kinds, and that includes Disney animated movies and independent foreign films about the fickle nature of life and destiny.
Tarzan isn’t as well-known as other ’90s Disney favorites like The Lion King or even Mulan , but it’s just as good as them. The movie features classic Disney elements like an orphaned hero, a charming romance, a wicked villain, and a great pop score by Phil Collins, who crafted the Oscar-winning song You’ll Be In My Heart.
 Is it corny? Yes. But Tarzan still represents a period when Disney could do no wrong and remains a thrilling adventure that captures the breathless beauty of Edgar Rice Burroughs’s original story.
Run Lola Run is live-action, but it has the look, feel, and fearlessness of an animated movie; you feel like it could break the laws of physics with its dynamic, virtuoso filmmaking. The movie’s story is simple: Lola’s boyfriend is in trouble, and she’s the only one that can bail him out of it. Yet the hook here is that the choices Lola makes change the outcome of her story; in three separate sections, we see all the big and small decisions that, if changed, can alter her life, and the lives of everyone around her, forever.
Run Lola Run may seem like an odd pairing with a Disney movie, but both leave you feeling rushed and intoxicated and what more can you ask from a double feature like that? Editor’s note: Run Lola Run’s release date is the United States commercial release date. It premiered on August 20, 1998 in Germany.
Sleepless in Seattle and What’s Love Got To Do With It (May 25, 1993) TriStar Pictures 1993 was the second coming of the summer of love, both romantic and toxic, with the release of Sleepless in Seattle and What’s Love Got to Go With It , two movies that, while targeting the same female demographic, couldn’t be any more different from each other. Start with Sleepless in Seattle ; nothing about it has dated except maybe Tom Hanks’ hair. The rom-com is truly romantic and funny, with great supporting work from Rosie O’Donnell, Rob Reiner, Rita Wilson, and Bill Pullman, and flawless star turns from Hanks and Meg Ryan. It’s a movie that will make you believe in the power of love at first sight and frequent flyer miles.
What’s Love Got to Do With It , on the other hand, is a wake-up call, and a warning. In telling the true story of Tina Turner’s abusive marriage to Ike Turner, the movie doesn’t sugarcoat the harsh realities Tina had to go through to win her freedom and accomplish one of the greatest musical comebacks in history.
What’s Love Got to Do With It is tough to take, as it should be, but it’s ultimately a triumphant and life-affirming movie that gave Angela Bassett the best role of her impressive career. Both movies stand the test of time for different reasons, and both are great to watch both paired or separately at any time of the year.
Editors' Recommendations Christopher Nolan should direct a James Bond movie. Here’s why 10 best comic book movies of the 2000s DC Comics Features Entertainment November has been a great month for movies at Netflix, with the premiere of David Fincher's The Killer, and recent box office hits like Insidious: The Red Door and Spider-Man: Across the Spider-Verse. This week, the new additions include The Impossible, a 2012 survival thriller that has already landed on the list of the 10 most popular movies on Netflix. For younger viewers, Minions is also heating up the charts despite the pending departure of the other films in the franchise at the end of the month.
There's only one holiday weekend left in November, so what's the best way to stay on top of everything new on Netflix? Why, we are, of course. Our list of the best movies on Netflix right now is updated every Friday, even on holiday weekends, so you can easily find something for every movie lover in your life.
Entertainment Summer is long over, and the fall season is in full swing. It's now late 2023, and just about everyone is subscribed to Netflix and Hulu. But would you be surprised if I told you one of the most underrated streaming services around is Tubi? The upstart streamer has tons of new and old TV shows from every decade and every genre imaginable. Want to watch the buzziest series that aired on Max? Tubi has it. Are you feeling nostalgic about that old movie or cartoon you used to watch as a kid in the '80s or '90s? Chances are, Tubi has it.
Tubi has so much content that it can be hard to choose which shows and films are worth your time. Digital Trends is here to help you sort out which ones are worth watching. Even though the streaming service is free, time is valuable, and no one wants to waste it watching subpar content.
Entertainment Rather than waiting for the Thanksgiving holiday weekend, Apple TV+ and Netflix dropped two of their biggest shows of the fall this week. Netflix's The Crown kicked off its sixth and final season with four new episodes, while the Apple TV+ Godzilla-adjacent series Monarch: Legacy of Monster, dropped its first two episodes this week, with new episodes arriving weekly thereafter. Also this week, Scott Pilgrim Takes Off hits Netflix, while Max gets in on the act this week by premiering the second season of Julia.
Netflix, Amazon Prime Video, Hulu, Max, Apple TV+, Disney+, Paramount+, and Peacock still have new shows coming for the rest of November, including a handful arriving next week. But if you've been thinking about cutting back on your streaming bill, then perhaps you should consider signing up for the ad-supported tiers. In the meantime, keep reading for our weekly roundup of the best new shows to stream.
When you're done here, check out the best new movies to stream this week, as well as the best shows on Netflix, best shows on Hulu, best shows on Amazon Prime Video, and best shows on Disney+.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
