Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix F1 Live Stream Stranger Things Season 5 Best New Movies Most Popular Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney+ UFC Live Stream Best Movies on Disney+ Home Entertainment Guides 5 best comic book titles to read for SDCC 2023 By Guillermo Kurten Close With the diminished presence of movie studios, San Diego Comic-Con 2023 will have a greater focus on the comic book source medium that inspired it. Fans will need to temper their expectations for the latest in the MCU and the forthcoming DCU, but there are plenty of ongoing comics for fans to read and get invested in.
Batman Daredevil Moon Knight Superman Wonder Woman DC Comics will feature announcements from the current Dawn of DC event and more. Meanwhile, Marvel Comics will also have reveals regarding the future of several major properties, assuring that there will be something for every kind of comic fan. From series like Chip Zdarsky and Jorge Jiménez’s Batman run to the former’s epic Daredevil finale with Marco Checchetto, there are a few great ongoing comics to help get in the spirit of SDCC 2023.
Batman DC Comics Between the character’s ongoing mainline and spin-off comics, as well as the critical and commercial success of last year’s The Batman with Robert Pattinson donning the cape and cowl, the brooding hero is flourishing in just about every medium he features in.
The 10 darkest moments in the DCEU, ranked 10 best movie superhero costumes, ranked 5 best horror movies of 2023 so far It’s a great opportunity to get into the main Batman book, as Chip Zdarsky — while working on his acclaimed Daredevil run for Marvel — takes on writing duties with star artist Jorge Jiménez. This creative duo’s run has two story arcs under its belt, with the initial Failsafe arc serving as a clever indirect sequel to Tower of Babel , with the Dark Knight seeing his greatest contingency effort morphed into his greatest threat. It’s early days still, but the two have made a promising first impression.
Daredevil Marvel Comics Elsewhere in top-tier writer Chip Zdarsky’s catalog, he and talented artist Marco Checchetto prepare to bring their exceptional Daredevil run to a close before Saladin Ahmed and Aaron Kuder pick it up in September. The Man Without Fear is one of the superheroes to arguably enjoy the most consistent high-quality runs in the character’s publication history, but the creative team here has more than risen to the challenge.
From the shocking catalyst to force Matt Murdock to look inward about his role as a vigilante to the grand-scale mysticism of two Daredevils going up against the world-ending machinations of The Hand, this Daredevil run has packed thrilling storytelling and meaningful character development at every scale. Coming off the legacies of Frank Miller, Brian Bendis, and more, it’s impressive how Zdarsky can still muster something worth saying about the Devil of Hell’s Kitchen.
Moon Knight Marvel Comics Hopefully, the MCU Disney+ Moon Knight series starring Oscar Isaac has given more attention to Moon Knight, as the current run with writer Jed MacKay and artist Allesandro Cappucio has been stellar since their start in 2021. Marc Spector is a fascinating subject as a protagonist due to the themes of mental health at the core of his stories and character.
MacKay and Cappucio’s run presents the hero in a deeply troubled state emotionally and psychologically, with the Mr. Knight persona at odds with the moon god Khonshu and establishing his own Midnight Mission to fight crime. Along with a supporting cast featuring familiar characters and fresh faces, this Moon Knight run has been a fantastic blend of street-level grit with the occult and supernatural.
Superman Image used with permission by copyright holder The Dawn of DC event has paved the way for several comic book series debuts and relaunches, with Superman seeing the premiere of a new creative team. One of the publisher’s busiest writers, Joshua Williamson teams up with artist Jamal Campbell for a new run of Superman that sees the Man of Tomorrow return to Metropolis.
It’s a long-awaited return for fans, as Superman returns from his intergalactic ventures while his son — Jon Kent — served as the protector in his stead. The new run has just a few issues out so far, but it’s been acclaimed for reaffirming Superman’s place in the DC mythos and what makes him such a beloved character. There’s expectedly plenty of superheroic action, but it’s compassion that ultimately wins the day.
Wonder Woman Image used with permission by copyright holder Another one of the landmark relaunches in the Dawn of DC event, with Wonder Woman hitting a centennial issue with issue No. 800. This story is the conclusion to the Whatever Happened to the Warrior of Truth? story arc, but it gives fans a glimpse into what veteran writer Tom King and artist Daniel Sampere’s run on Wonder Woman will be like.
Similar to the new run on Superman , this issue is a satisfying close to the storyline by adopting a celebratory tone that highlights the Princess of Themyscira’s best qualities as a hero. Though it’s the tail-end of one arc, the upcoming Comic-Con event in addition to the full-fledged start of King and Sampere’s run on the horizon, it’s a great time to get caught up on Wonder Woman’s exploits.
All of these comic book series can be read digitally on DC Universe Infinite and Marvel Unlimited.
Editors' Recommendations Is Scott Pilgrim the best comic book story ever? 10 best Justice League and Justice League Unlimited episodes ever, ranked 10 best comic book movies of the 2010s, ranked The 5 best 2023 movie trailers so far 5 best Blue Beetle stories, ranked Comic Book Movies Comic-Con: Complete Coverage DC Comics Marvel Entertainment The Dark Knight is an unstoppable force. The bad guys usually don't stand a chance against his intellect, combat expertise, and arsenal of expensive toys. For decades, Batman has been kicking butt and taking names across Gotham City. But while the Caped Crusader began this daring venture with a little bit of pocket change, a dash of determination, and his very own vision, he hasn't been alone in his superheroics.
Batman has enlisted the help of multiple sidekicks over the years -- the most famous of which goes by the moniker of Robin. But even the position of Boy Wonder has been shared by multiple lads and even a red-headed young lass. So, that begs the question: Which of Batman's plethora of sidekicks over the years is the best? Stick with us while we dive into Batman's seven best sidekicks and rank them from a total liability to supremely bat-tastic.
7. Jason Todd (Robin/Red Hood) Entertainment If there's one genre that audiences never seem to get tired of, it's action movies. By comparison, there haven't been many big-screen comedies, sci-fi adventures, or fantasy flicks in 2023. But action films are in abundance, both in the streaming realm and in theaters. If you happen to love action like we do, this is a very good thing. And some of the action movies that hit theaters this year may be among the best of the last 10 years.
It may be a little premature to name any film as the best action movie of this year. But since we are currently almost seven-and-a-half months through the year, we can confidently say that the following films are the five best action movies of 2023 so far.
5. Extraction 2 Entertainment Bounding from rooftop to rooftop, the Dark Knight never misses his mark. He operates like a well-oiled machine tracking bad guys, beating them to a bloody pulp, and throwing them in the slammer - or Arkham Asylum should they be anyone of Gotham's notable supervillains. As the brainchild of Bob Kane and Bill Finger, an artist and writer duo, Batman has been pounding the pavement of Gotham ever since his debut in Detective Comics in 1939. He's undergone a number of changes since his original conception ultimately becoming the brooding powerhouse we know today.
Most understand the basic tenants of Batman these days. His parents were murdered before his young eyes leading him down this path of personal vindication and pursuit of justice. Batman, in most iterations, never resorts to killing -- the one crime that separates his outlaw vigilante operations from the real criminals. Of course, it wasn't always that way. In Batman's earliest days, he had no qualms about ending the lives of baddies on the streets. Even now, some stories and films like Tim Burton's gothic take on the character depict him looking on with cold and uncaring glares as criminals meet their end. Regardless, Batman is mostly a well-established hero simply seeking justice and there are countless stories of the Caped Crusader. Let's take a look at the best among them.
10. Hush Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
