Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix F1 Live Stream Stranger Things Season 5 Best New Movies Most Popular Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney+ UFC Live Stream Best Movies on Disney+ Home Entertainment Features The DCEU was better than the MCU. Here’s why By Blair Marnell Close 2023 marks the 10th anniversary of the DC Extended Universe, but it will also be the final year of the DCEU’s existence. When Aquaman and the Lost Kingdom arrives in December, the DCEU will be put to rest in favor of a new cinematic universe, the DCU, from DC Studios co-CEOs James Gunn and Peter Safran. The new DCU will launch (writers’ and actors’ strikes permitting) in 2025 with Superman: Legacy , which Gunn is writing and directing.
The DCEU created a cohesive narrative Wonder Woman broke the glass ceiling for female superheroes The redemption of Aquaman DC delivered the first Latino-led superhero movie Peacemaker integrated DC movie characters into the show R-rated Action DC’s early films maintained a more serious tone With Blue Beetle about to hit theaters this week, it feels strange to throw dirt on the DCEU’s premature grave. In theory, this should have worked. Marvel Studios proved that comic book movies could deliver multiple blockbusters within the Marvel Cinematic Universe. By contrast, and unlike Marvel, DC had access to all of its characters, including some of the most famous superheroes in the world. Superman, Batman, and Wonder Woman are true icons. But as a whole, they came up short when compared to the MCU’s unparalleled success.
While there could be a very long list of things that the MCU does better than the DCEU, the reverse is also true in certain categories. In a handful of ways, a few of the DCEU films were just as good if not better than their Marvel counterparts. And it’s worth examining the seven crucial things that the DCEU did better than the MCU in the hope that the team behind the DCU will keep them in mind and avoid some of the same mistakes that brought down this cinematic universe.
The MCU should adapt X-Men: Evolution. Here’s why Batgirl should have been released instead of The Flash. Here’s why 6 reasons why Robert Downey Jr. needs to return as Iron Man The DCEU created a cohesive narrative Warner Bros. Pictures Say what you will about Zack Snyder’s films, but the three DC movies that he directed, Man of Steel , Batman v Superman: Dawn of Justice , and Justice League , all flowed into each other naturally. That’s because it’s largely the story of Superman, from his emergence as a hero, his premature death, and his resurrection alongside the first superhero team in the DCEU. Marvel’s first few films were all over the place tonally and thematically, with only the Infinity Stones as the narrative glue that started bringing the heroes together in The Avengers.
Even Wonder Woman and Aquaman built on Snyder’s storyline and felt like proper pieces of the puzzle. But it really fell apart when Snyder left Justice League during the film’s production, and Avengers director Joss Whedon took over the shoot and added his signature sense of humor. That film failed at the box office, but Zack Snyder’s Justice League was a definite improvement when Snyder had a chance to finish his vision for the movie. It just took a nearly four-hour cut to get there. Unfortunately, after Aquaman , none of the DC movies have been able to regain that sense of vision or even a coherent direction.
Wonder Woman broke the glass ceiling for female superheroes Warner Bros. Pictures / Warner Bros. Pictures Wonder Woman wasn’t the first female-led superhero movie, or even the first DC heroine to headline a film. Surely everyone remembers Halle Berry’s ill-fated 2004 Catwoman movie, or even Marvel’s Elektra film starring Jennifer Garner in the title role. Those films flopped so hard that studios were openly reluctant to ever give female heroes another chance to carry a movie. And if we’re being honest, the Black Widow movie should have happened about seven or eight years sooner than it finally materialized.
However, Wonder Woman arrived at just the right time to make Gal Gadot a star and remind the general public why Wonder Woman herself has been popular for decades. For the first time since Lynda Carter’s Wonder Woman TV series in the ’70s, the Amazon heroine fully reclaimed her status as an equal next to Batman and Superman.
Wonder Woman made $822 million worldwide, and it helped pave the way for more heroines to get their due on the big screen. The sequel, Wonder Woman 1984 , was hit by a pandemic release and the fact that it just wasn’t as good as the original. But that doesn’t diminish the accomplishment of Wonder Woman in the DCEU.
The redemption of Aquaman Warner Bros. Pictures Marvel has done a very good job of taking some obscure characters, like the Guardians of the Galaxy , and turning them into movie stars. DC may have already had the icons, but it pulled off something even more impressive by finally redeeming the king of the seas in the minds of the general public. Comic book writers like Peter David and Geoff Johns had already gone a long way towards repairing the reputation of DC’s King of Atlantis. But for several generations of comic book movie fans, Super Friends Aquaman was still the butt of everyone’s jokes.
Hanna-Barbera Productions Note that the above image is an actual screencap from Super Friends with Aquaman and the Wonder Twins. And on a campy animated show for kids, the blonde guy who talks to fish was somehow the goofiest non-sidekick on the series. This was the worst take on Aquaman, and it took hold for decades until Jason Momoa’s Aqua-bro performance as the character made him seem like a legitimate contender.
Aquaman was also a massive hit with $1.148 billion worldwide, and it has made Super Friends Aquaman a thing of the past.
DC delivered the first Latino-led superhero movie Warner Bros. Pictures Quick quiz: Name even one Latino hero that Marvel has in a prominent leading role in an MCU movie or a TV series. It’s a trick question because there isn’t one. Now, if we had asked you to name one of Marvel’s Latino heroes, we would have accepted Miles Morales as an answer since he is Afro-Latino. But Spider-Man: Into the Spider-Verse and Spider-Man: Across the Spider-Verse are animated films produced by Sony Pictures, and Miles has to share the spotlight with almost every Spider-Man in existence.
Blue Beetle , on the other hand, not only features a solo Latino hero, Jaime Reyes (Xolo Maridueña), in the leading role, it actively embraces his culture and his extended Mexican-American family including his parents, Alberto (Damián Alcázar) and Rocio Reyes (Elpidia Carrillo), his uncle, Rudy Reyes (George Lopez), his sister, Milagro Reyes (Belissa Escobedo), and his grandmother, Nana (Adriana Barraza).
It’s far too soon to say how Blue Beetle will perform at the box office, but the fact that it exists at all feels like a minor miracle. Keep in mind that this movie was originally intended as an HBO Max original film before it was upgraded to a theatrical release. The Batgirl movie was not as lucky, and it was sacrificed as a tax write-off by DC’s parent company, Warner Bros. Discovery.
Peacemaker integrated DC movie characters into the show Max Thanks to Disney+, Marvel Studios now has an abundance of TV shows set in the MCU. Unfortunately, quantity has not always meant quality for Marvel, and Disney CEO Bob Iger has indicated that there may be a lot fewer MCU shows in the future. The DCEU only had a single TV series in its decade of existence: Peacemaker.
 Series creator and director, James Gunn introduced John Cena’s Peacemaker/Christopher Smith in The Suicide Squad as a member of the team and as a secondary antagonist. However, Peacemaker pulled off the impressive feat of humanizing Peacemaker himself within the context of his own self-contained alien invasion storyline. This series didn’t exist to set up some film or a sequel. It told its own story, and then it was done.
Perhaps the most impressive aspect beyond the season-long evolution of Peacemaker is the way that the show got a lot of mileage out of the cameo appearances by Viola Davis’s Amanda Waller. The season finale also featured a very funny cameo by Jason Momoa and Ezra Miller as Aquaman and The Flash, respectively. That made the series feel like it truly belonged among the DC movies.
R-rated Action Warner Bros. / Warner Bros. Pictures To date, there has not been an MCU R-rated movie.
Deadpool 3 will reportedly be the first, but it is yet to be finished, much less released. And to be fair, the vast majority of superhero flicks land in the realm of PG-13 because of the fear that an R-rating would negatively affect the box office. It’s worth noting that the DCEU’s two R-rated flicks, Birds of Prey and The Suicide Squad , didn’t become blockbuster hits, but there were mitigating circumstances for The Suicide Squad which was released day and date with its streaming debut on the service formerly known as HBO Max.
Having said that, the action in those films is the best reason to watch them.
The Suicide Squad works particularly well because it manages to marry the action to both the comedic and the dramatic elements of the script. That’s the kind of comic book movie that could do Deadpool-like numbers if the new DC regime revisits that in the future.
DC’s early films maintained a more serious tone Warner Bros., 2016 / Warner Bros.
This one comes with a caveat because the tonal differences between the MCU and the DCEU went out the window when Suicide Squad and Joss Whedon’s cut of Justice League tried as hard as possible to recreate the look and feel of Marvel’s movies. But the DCEU movies that came before that were refreshingly serious compared to the far-more jokey Marvel films. Some of the MCU movies like Thor: Love and Thunder have even gone so far into comedy that they play like self-parody.
Unfortunately, that is also true for later DC movies like Shazam! Fury of the Gods , Black Adam , and The Flash.
 Once DC films were no longer distinguishable from Marvel’s flicks, they were largely disposable and easily ignored. If the new DCU is going to reinvigorate the brand at the box office, the people running the company have to remember that DC movies need to tell DC stories, and at all costs, they should avoid being pale imitations of DC’s biggest competitor.
Editors' Recommendations Want to know why the MCU stinks lately? We’ll tell you Iron Man 3 is the most underrated MCU movie ever. Here’s why it’s worth watching Why Michael Keaton is the best Batman ever Should Edgar Wright finally join the MCU and direct Ant-Man 4? Guardians of the Galaxy or The Suicide Squad: Which James Gunn movie is better? Comic Book Movies DC Comics Features Marvel Entertainment In the world of superheroes, the MCU is basically akin to the Wild West. For several years, the MCU has been bolstered by the adulation and support of adoring fans. And during that same period, new heroes (and villains) continue to enter the grand picture that is the MCU all vying for relevance. Marvel's ever-growing roster of heroes and villains features an eclectic array of metahumans, gods, and geniuses capable of upsetting the world order - or protecting it.
Whether a major player in the MCU has been gifted with some sort of divinity or a fictional metahuman alteration that offers near-omnipotence (such as The Marvels' Captain Marvel), there are specific heroes and villains who harbor a true fighting spirit. In fact, some of the most powerful agents in the MCU don't even have powers. They use their intellect, honed martial arts crafts, and peak human physique to win the day. These fighters often use the most brutal tactics due to the very necessity of keeping up with powered beings.
7. Hawkeye Entertainment Unless you’ve been living under a rock for the past few years, you’ve probably heard the word “multiverse” thrown around at one point or another. A film about one family's multiverse-spanning relationship just won the Oscar for Best Picture this year. Meanwhile, Marvel Studios announced at San Diego Comic-Con last year that its post-Infinity Saga story would officially be known as “The Multiverse Saga.” The studio has, consequently, gone out of its way as of late to flesh out the infinite alternate realities of the Marvel Cinematic Universe — specifically in last year’s Doctor Strange in the Multiverse of Madness and this year’s Ant-Man and the Wasp: Quantumania. Unfortunately for Marvel, outside of Loki Season 1 and Spider-Man: No Way Home, its live-action multiversal stories have all landed with a bit of a collective thud.
Entertainment Before James Gunn moves entirely to DC, he has one last ride to fulfill with the Marvel Cinematic Universe. Gunn will premiere Guardians of the Galaxy Vol. 3 this week, finalizing the trilogy he began nearly 10 years ago with the unexpected box-office hit and critical darling Guardians of the Galaxy. Gunn single-handedly raised one of Marvel's most obscure teams into the mainstream, turned Chris Pratt into a star -- for a while, anyway -- and launched the cosmic corner of the MCU with a healthy dose of humor and an overabundance of heart.
The Guardians movies are silly and funny, with several large-scale set pieces of flashy lights and boom-boom-pows meant to fulfill the MCU quota. But there's an emotional center to them -- it's not just a collection of characters in tight spandex jumping around, but a group of well-defined, three-dimensional figures relating to one another while saving the universe. In many ways, the Guardians trilogy is everything the MCU should be, to the point where it's not an overstatement to say these films would've succeeded with or without the Marvel connection -- if anything, the MCU needs them more than they need it.
Heart meets stupid Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
