Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix F1 Live Stream Stranger Things Season 5 Best New Movies Most Popular Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney+ UFC Live Stream Best Movies on Disney+ Home Entertainment Features Superhero movies aren’t events anymore By A.A. Dowd Close Warner Bros.
Somewhere, Lex Luthor is smiling. Superheroes, the bane of his villainous existence, are having a rough year at the multiplex.
The Flash stumbled hard.
Shazam! Fury of the Gods fizzled.
Ant-Man and the Wasp : Quantumania opened big, then fell fast. Will Blue Beetle reverse the trend? The $30 million it’s expected to make this weekend isn’t so bad for a film originally intended to go straight to streaming, but still pretty dire for something that cost four times that.
A steady descent Glorified TV Enthusiasm wanes Not every splash panel spectacle has underperformed.
Guardians of the Galaxy Vol. 3 made about what its predecessors did, while Spider-Man: Across the Spider-Verse is as successful commercially as it is creatively. But even those hits have been dramatically outgrossed by the likes of The Super Mario Bros. Movie and Barbie — just as last year’s crop of comic book fare fell very shy of the numbers posted by Top Gun: Maverick and Avatar: The Way of Water.
Is the age of the superhero over? Much as that would please cinephiles fed up with the wham-pow of Marvel and DC, it’s probably too soon to fly any capes at half-mast. But there’s no denying that, after a couple decades of dominating popular culture, superhero movies seem to be losing their iron grip on the public’s pocketbooks. They’re performing, these days, like any other kind of movie: Audiences see the ones they’re interested in, skip the ones they’re not interested in, and file others in their proverbial “wait until streaming” queues. This is the year, in other words, that people stopped treating superhero movies like events.
Marvel Studios A steady descent It’s been all downhill for the genre, in terms of sheer conversation-monopolizing popularity, since 2019. Arguably, that’s when superhero movies hit their cultural peak.
Avengers: Endgame fulfilled its destiny as the commercial apotheosis of the Marvel crossover project, seemingly assembling every person with even the most passing interest in costumed titans under one ticket-buying tent. DC, meanwhile, after years of trying to mimic Marvel’s extended-universe strategy, found big success with less tightly connected vehicles as its main attractions: Aquaman swam to a massive billion-dollar haul globally in 2019, as did Joker , which became an award-winning phenomenon, even picking up the top prize at the Venice Film Festival.
Why Michael Keaton is the best Batman ever The Flash’s new trailer reveals a world without superheroes Everything you need to know about The Flash movie There have been hit superhero movies since; Batman and Wakanda can still put butts in seats, go figure. But only one of them, Spider-Man: No Way Home , has truly been a sensation, drawing massive crowds for weeks on end. Has the supply of CGI slugfests finally exceeded demand for them? The genre’s recent downtrend is more complicated than people getting sick of superheroes. It probably has more to do with the changes in the industry that COVID hastened — including, especially, the increased blurring of lines between theatrical and streaming movies. To paraphrase Norma Desmond, maybe the Avengers are still big, and it’s the screens that got small.
Both Marvel and DC kept their brands alive during the pandemic with simultaneous theatrical/streaming releases of Black Widow and Wonder Woman 1984 , respectively.
But they also opened a kind of Pandora’s box: While big superhero movies have returned to opening exclusively in theaters, the window between their theatrical runs and their streaming premieres has shortened. Have audiences made peace with waiting a little while to see a new superhero movie? Worse, have they actually become accustomed to seeing these movies on their TVs, and even realized how little difference the Dolby experience makes for many of them? Thor: Love & Thunder and Black Adam are the definition of rentals at best.
Sony Pictures Glorified TV Marvel, especially, has long been preparing its audiences to look at superhero movies as glorified television. For a while, that was great for business: By constantly connecting to other installments of the franchise, every MCU entry became a necessary piece of the puzzle — a semiannual episode you had to catch to follow the larger story. (It’s partially how it turned second-stringers like Ant-Man and the Guardians into movie stars.) But Endgame functioned so well as a logical, well, ending to the story being told that the movies since have struggled to maintain the illusion of appointment viewing. It doesn’t help, of course, that the general quality of these movies — and especially their effects work— has dipped these past few years.
Anyone who’s ever started to give up on a once-favorite TV show that’s blown past its sensible finale knows what happens next: You fall behind and the time commitment to catch up starts eclipsing your interest in doing so. In Marvel’s case, the problem is exacerbated by the ways the studio has started tying its actual TV so closely to the movies, so that now you have to binge nine episodes of WandaVision to keep up with the Doctor Strange sequel , or make time for the Guardians of the Galaxy Christmas special to clock all the relevant relationships in the new movie. (DC doesn’t have this problem as much. If only it could make standalone films people actually wanted to see.) Marvel Studios Enthusiasm wanes People talk all the time about supposed “superhero fatigue,” the sense that Hollywood is fast exhausting the appeal of stories ripped from panels. But when it comes to how audiences are receiving these movies in 2023, it seems less a matter of being tired of them than having a bit less enthusiasm for them. What once felt like something viewers would race out to see has become something they’ll see eventually, probably in their living room, on their own timeline. And that’s directly related to how both Marvel and DC have treated cape-and-cowl fare like content, like grist, not like something special. No wonder audiences don’t see superhero movies as events anymore. They’re not.
Endgame was a once-in-a-generation phenomenon that has, in a way, made the genre feel smaller. Marvel and DC will doubtlessly continue to chase the zeitgeist-touching success of that movie, with the mixing-and-matching franchise possibilities of the Multiverse as the conduit to similar dopamine hits. But the generally diminishing returns of this year’s batch of superhero stories — including a few that leaned heavily on the Multiverse — suggests that it may take more to dominate the public imagination in that way again.
Paramount Pictures For a superhero movie to become a true event once more, it might need to feel new or different — the way Black Panther or The Dark Knight or the first Spider-Verse movie did. Audiences love a winning formula, but that craving for the familiar can be overstated. Just look at the monster success of Barbie , which doesn’t much resemble anything else on the box-office charts and is doing record-breaking business because of it. Superhero movies will probably keep making money (and, sometimes, losing it), but they may have to break through the machine-tooled lethargy of their current form to fully command the scattered attention of a moviegoing world again.
Failing that kind of blazingly new vision, studios might at least want to start thinking about the kind of money they’re blowing on cape stuff. A couple weeks in, another of this year’s superhero movies, Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles: Mutant Mayhem , has crossed $75 million domestically — which would be a disaster if it cost what The Flash did and not roughly, well, $75 million. Superhero movies don’t have to be events — except they sort of do when they cost enough to raise Bruce Wayne’s eyebrows.
For more of A.A. Dowd’s writing, please visit his Authory page.
Editors' Recommendations Why The Dark Knight is still the best comic book movie of all time Best DCEU fights, ranked 10 DCEU actors who should join the MCU (and who they should play) Most popular DCEU movies, ranked by box-office gross The best superhero deaths in movies, ranked Comic Book Movies DC Comics Features Marvel Entertainment Though Batman is a character that dominates a massive share of the pop culture space, that doesn't stop DC Comics from giving the brooding Dark Knight his own day of celebration every year. The superhero has spawned a treasure trove of engaging media across every medium he's featured in, with movies and TV being the biggest highlights outside of the comic book source material.
And even though Warner Bros. seems to be at its most volatile state in recent memory following the scorched-earth-esque merger with Discovery, fans can typically find most of the character's best stories in one place. If fans want to celebrate the occasion, then delving into the various live-action and animated Batman movies and TV shows on HBO Max seems like a fitting way to do so.
The Batman (2022) Entertainment DC Comics launched its DC Animated Universe to emphatic success with the early '90s phenomenon that was Batman: The Animated Series, and it also sowed the seeds for the universe's most inventive spin on the brooding hero. On top of creating arguably the most quintessential Batman project ever, it paved the way for other characters within the DC Universe to get their time in the spotlight. The most unexpected hit, however, was arguably Batman Beyond. This show and the concept behind it seemed to come out of nowhere, but it became an acclaimed classic nonetheless.
For the time, it's amazing how well the animated show did considering the ambitious choice to take Bruce Wayne out of the mantle and have someone else don the cape and cowl as the series' protagonist instead. But despite how beloved it quickly became, Batman Beyond has yet to receive a new adaptation outside of the comics, yet, the lucrative success of Spider-Man: Into the Spider-Verse has left the blueprint wide open since 2018.
The animated classic few people know about Entertainment Matt Reeves' The Batman finally brought to the live-action theatrical space an iteration of DC Comics' beloved, brooding superhero that honed in on the crime-noir detective aspect of the character, but Mask of the Phantasm still reigns supreme as being the truest to the character.
It's the first time a live-action adaptation made his "World's Greatest Detective" epithet just as important as being the "Dark Knight," even if Robert Pattinson's grimy and grounded take is still learning what his symbol should mean. However, Mask of the Phantasm -- and the animated universe Paul Dini and Bruce Timm co-created that paved the way for it -- remains the deepest dive into what makes Batman tick while honoring his swathes of comic book mythos.
The Batman brand of "dark deco" Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
