Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix F1 Live Stream Stranger Things Season 5 Best New Movies Most Popular Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney+ UFC Live Stream Best Movies on Disney+ Home Entertainment Guides The 10 darkest moments in the DCEU, ranked By Anthony Orlando Close For better or worse, the DC Extended Universe has depicted some of the darkest moments ever seen in superhero media. This franchise started out especially grim, but it seems to have shaken off this image in the post-Snyderverse era.
10. Jesse’s Death – Aquaman (2018) 9. The fall of El Diablo – Suicide Squad (2016) 8. Dirty little secrets – The Suicide Squad (2021) 7. Sivana unleashes his Sins – Shazam! (2019) 6. Barry at Black Zero – The Flash (2023) 5. Silas’s sacrifice – Zack Snyder’s Justice League (2021) 4. The Knightmare – Batman v Superman: Dawn of Justice (2016) 3. Cyborg’s vision – Zack Snyder’s Justice League (2021) 2. Superman kills Zod – Man of Steel (2013) 1. The Capitol bombing – Batman v Superman: Dawn of Justice (2016) Nevertheless, with scenes like these, this cinematic universe has still dared to present some heavy realism in the lives of the heroes and villains who populate it.
10. Jesse’s Death – Aquaman (2018) Warner Bros. / Warner Bros.
Before David Kane becomes the supervillain Black Manta, he and his father, Jesse, battle Aquaman onboard a submarine that they commandeered. But when the vessel starts to flood and Jesse gets trapped, Arthur decides to leave them both to die despite David’s pleas for help.
10 best Justice League and Justice League Unlimited episodes ever, ranked 10 cool things to know about Ben Affleck’s canceled Batman movie The 12 most powerful DCEU characters, ranked Though David refuses to abandon his father, the latter unpins a grenade to make him go. The rage and sorrow David feels in this scene are palpable, making for a shocking origin to Aquaman’s archenemy.
9. The fall of El Diablo – Suicide Squad (2016) Warner Bros. / Warner Bros.
The tale of El Diablo is a tragic one, and when he tells it to the Suicide Squad, everyone can feel his pain. Born with the ability to control fire, Chato Santana struggled to control his powers and live a happy life with his family while also working as a gangster.
But during an argument with his wife, Grace, he sets their house on fire by accident, killing her and their two children. While Suicide Squad may not have done the titular team justice, it still succeeded in painting El Diablo as a tortured and remorseful soul with this heartbreaking backstory.
8. Dirty little secrets – The Suicide Squad (2021) Warner Bros. / Warner Bros.
When Rick Flag, Ratcatcher, and Peacemaker enter the bowels of Jotunheim, they are horrified to discover the truth behind Project Starfish. They find countless human prisoners under the control of Starro the Conqueror, each revealed to have been subjected to horrible experiments and sexual assault at the hands of their captor, Thinker.
On top of that, the Suicide Squad learns that the U.S. government had funded these experiments carried out by the people of Corto Maltese, revealing that the Squad was merely sent to wipe out all traces of these wrongdoings.
7. Sivana unleashes his Sins – Shazam! (2019) Warner Bros. Pictures / Warner Bros. Pictures After gaining the power of the Seven Deadly Sins, Doctor Sivana barges into a business meeting held by his father and brother. Having been abused by them all his life, Sivana gets his revenge by throwing his brother out the window and having the Sins kill his father and his associates in an infernal massacre. I it’s a stark departure from the film’s otherwise lighthearted tone, but it’s a scene that cements Sivana as a fearsome and callous villain.
6. Barry at Black Zero – The Flash (2023) Warner Bros. / Warner Bros.
Despite its flaws, The Flash gives audiences a phenomenal glimpse at Barry’s first days as a superhero, depicting him in Metropolis during the Black Zero Event caused by General Zod in Man of Steel.
Armed with only a makeshift suit, Barry races in to save people as many people as he can from Zod’s World Engine. Though he manages to save a young boy’s life, Barry is unable to save his father, forcing the speedster to shield the child’s eyes from such an unspeakable tragedy.
5. Silas’s sacrifice – Zack Snyder’s Justice League (2021) Warner Bros. Pictures / Warner Bros. Pictures When Steppenwolf arrives to claim the third Mother Box from the Justice League, Victor’s father, Silas, locks himself in a glass cube with the alien artifact.
Though he knows he can’t destroy the box, Silas uses a laser to mark it with enough heat to allow his son to track it later, but at the cost of his own life. Victor suffered more than enough after losing his mom and most of his body. But having to watch his father disintegrate right in front of him is especially heartbreaking.
4. The Knightmare – Batman v Superman: Dawn of Justice (2016) Warner Bros. / Warner Bros.
During his quest to destroy Superman, Bruce has a dream of himself fighting in a post-apocalyptic world ruled by an evil Man of Steel and an army of alien monsters and the humans who have submitted to him. Bruce’s allies die all around him until only he is left to suffer an execution literally by Superman’s hand.
At first, this seems like a nightmare brought on by Bruce’s fear of Superman. But it becomes clear later on that what he saw is a vision of a future ruled by Darkseid, setting the stage for the war that’s to come.
3. Cyborg’s vision – Zack Snyder’s Justice League (2021) Courtesy of HBO Max/Warner Media / Courtesy of HBO Max/Warner Media Just as Batman saw an Earth ruled by Superman, Cyborg sees exactly how such a fate comes to fruition. Watching the Mother Boxes form the Unity, Victor witnesses the desolation of Earth, the enslavement of the Amazons, and Darkseid’s killing of Wonder Woman, Aquaman, and Lois Lane, the latter of which breaks Superman and allows the evil alien to take control of his mind.
Darkseid may have only been in the DCEU for a few minutes, but this brief scene shows just how terrifying he is. Also, the fact the League inadvertently played a role in creating this dark future makes it even more frightening.
2. Superman kills Zod – Man of Steel (2013) Warner Bros. / Warner Bros.
Man of Steel was an especially dark origin for Henry Cavill’s Superman , and his battle with Zod dealt a heavy blow to him. While he does reign victorious over the Kryptonian warlord, Clark is forced to kill his adversary when he threatens to murder some innocent bystanders.
Even though he saves these people from certain death, this is the first time he has ever taken a life. And since Zod was the only other Kryptonian left in the universe, Clark’s cries of devastation express the true weight of what he has done.
1. The Capitol bombing – Batman v Superman: Dawn of Justice (2016) Warner Bros. / Warner Bros.
When Superman arrives at the Capitol Building to stand trial for his alleged crimes, the court blows up almost immediately thanks to a bomb planted by Lex Luthor. The scene was already disturbing enough with Lex leaving a jar of “Granny’s Peach Tea,” but it takes things a step further with this act of terrorism that brands Superman as a threat in the eyes of the world.
The scene also focuses on Superman’s reaction within the inferno, depicting his remorse over not being able to see and prevent this terrible fate despite his godlike power, bringing the Man of Steel to a brand new low.
Editors' Recommendations 7 things the MCU should do in a revised Multiverse saga 10 best movie superhero costumes, ranked The 10 best opening scenes in superhero movies, ranked 5 actors who should be the next Flash Every version of The Flash movie that didn’t happen Comic Book Movies DC Comics Entertainment The Flash is arguably one of the most popular superheroes today. From cartoons to live-action, the Flash has appeared in countless media, so a lot of people have portrayed the human lightning bolt over the years. Sometimes an actor can be two Flashes at the same time.
Now that the Scarlet Speedster's film The Flash is about to shake up the Multiverse in theaters, now is a good time to run down the ranked list of the best Flashes in TV and film.
7. Kyle Gallner (Smallville) Entertainment At long last, after years of delays, DC's time-traveling blockbuster, The Flash, has reached theaters. When Barry Allen runs back in time to prevent his mother's murder, he ends up in a drastically different timeline without any heroes to protect the world from General Zod's invasion.
Given that the Flash travels the Multiverse and teams up with Michael Keaton's iconic version of Batman, this superhero film features an extraordinary number of Easter eggs that should give comic book fans a field day. To make it easier for viewers, here's a breakdown of all the DC references found in the Scarlet Speedster's first solo film.
Entertainment Spider-Man: Across the Spider-Verse has taken audiences on an animated roller coaster across the Multiverse with its colorful cast of characters. This sequel film took things to a whole new level by introducing hundreds of Spider-People from different dimensions and putting them all together for one mind-blowing superhero extravaganza.
Out of all the bizarre, quirky, and relatable figures that appear, these 10 have launched themselves to the top of the list of the best characters in the entire film.
10. Jefferson Davis Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
