Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix F1 Live Stream Stranger Things Season 5 Best New Movies Most Popular Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney+ UFC Live Stream Best Movies on Disney+ Home Entertainment Guides Excited for Batman: The Brave and the Bold? Here are 5 DC comics you can read now By Christopher Hinton Close The Dark Knight and the Boy Wonder have formulated one of the superhero genre’s most iconic partnerships in comic book history. The Dynamic Duo is a well-oiled machine kickin’ villainy butt and taking names. It’s easy to reflect on the golden age iconography surrounding the partnership’s more lighthearted era. But make no mistake, the few young lads who have donned the Robin duds over the past several decades have gotten their hands dirty.
Batman: The Brave and the Bold No. 1 (2023) Batman: The Brave and the Bold Omnibus Vol. 1 Batman and Son Batman and Robin Vol. 1 (2009) Batman: The Court of Owls Batman and Robin underscore just one of many partnerships the Caped Crusader has formed during his time under the cowl. With the DCU’s film The Brave and the Bold on the distant horizon, there’s plenty of speculation to be had. Mostly, it’s hard not to wonder what a modern Batman and Robin team-up film might look like. But the name of the film is a clear reference to an era of comics that saw the Dark Knight working in tandem with heroes to deliver justice. In fact, there’s a treasure trove of comic books to soak up while we wait for the film to hit theaters. Here are 5 of the best.
Batman: The Brave and the Bold No. 1 (2023) DC Comics That’s right, this issue is hot off the presses and features a whopping 64 pages of Batman crime-fighting justice. This mega-issue is actually an anthology collection of four separate stories. It’s meant to evoke the episodic nature of the original Silver Age era The Brave and the Bold series. That original series featured heroes often partnering up for villainous beatdowns. Batman eventually became a mainstay. The first storyline in this mega issue featuring the Dark Knight and his DC hero pals is actually a poignant one. Written by Tom King, Batman: The Winning Card Part 1 kicks off this issue with a retelling of Batman’s first face-to-face with the maniacal Joker.
This series is Netflix’s most popular comic book show now. Here’s why you should watch it 5 best comic book titles to read for SDCC 2023 Excited for Superman: Legacy? Then read these 5 Lois Lane comics You might feel like this is fairly basic for a Batman story, but you’d be mistaken. King crafts an organic and haunting tale that elevates the Joker’s particular brand of evil. It’s one that follows in the footsteps of Ed Brubaker’s Batman: The Man Who Laughs without mimicking the iconic storyline. The other stories offered in this issue are just as wild and varied. This title is worth the price of admission.
Batman: The Brave and the Bold Omnibus Vol. 1 DC Comics This massive collection (which is infinitely cheaper if purchased digitally), brings together all the zany and wild adventures of Batman and his most prestigious team-ups with other DC heroes during the Bronze Age of comic books. While Robin is, of course, an obvious choice for partnership, the Dark Knight also forms duo alliances with characters like Green Arrow, Wonder Woman, and even more obscure heroes like Deadman in order to foil some of the gnarliest criminal capers afoot. In fact, he even teams up once with the Joker if you can believe it.
And if you’re a real fan of the medium, then you’ll appreciate that this collection includes the legendary talent from several notable writers and artists including the great Neal Adams, Dick Giordano, and Denny O’Neil. To truly understand the origins of Batman and his most famous partnerships, including the Boy Wonder, this is the collection to read.
Batman and Son DC Comics With the upcoming DCU film The Brave and the Bold set to be Damian Wayne’s live-action introduction, what better place to start in comic books than the fierce Robin’s debut in Grant Morrison’s Batman and Son? While the lore behind Grant Morrison’s new Robin posits that the baby shared between Bruce and Talia as shown in 1987’s Batman: Son of the Demon was in fact Damian, the character wasn’t actually established in comic book lore until the Batman and Son storyline where Bruce learns of his young son who has been trained by the League of Assassins to be a bloodthirsty killer.
Talia clearly has ulterior motives for introducing Damian into Bruce’s life. However, Bruce has a chance to connect with the son he’s never known and begin the makings of an enduring relationship – one where he can eventually coach the boy into abandoning the violent principles his grandfather had taught him.
Batman and Robin Vol. 1 (2009) DC Comics In 2008, Final Crisis was a massive DC crossover event that was in full swing as Darkseid reared his ugly head once again. In the wake of it all, Batman, or Bruce Wayne rather, was seemingly killed by Darkseid’s Omega Beams. It’s later revealed that Bruce Wayne was actually sent backward through time to the Paleolithic Era by the Omega Beams. But despite this, the rest of the DC world believed him to be dead. Dick Grayson would soon don the cowl and take on the mantle of Batman for Gotham City and Damian Wayne would stand by his side as Robin. In Grant Morrison’s first volume to kick off the series following the Final Crisis event, Dick Grayson’s Batman and Damian Wayne’s Robin square off against Gotham’s seedy underbelly including the nefarious and sinister Professor Pyg.
Sure, Bruce Wayne might technically be absent from this story. But Dick Grayson’s less imposing attitude compared to Bruce Wayne enabled a series of adventures that felt reminiscent of the Golden Age era. This time. however, (and much like Jason Todd) Robin isn’t just Batman’s yes-man. He’s got a mind (and ego) all of his very own and he isn’t afraid to be bullish and challenge his cohort. Thematically, this volume encapsulates a perfect blend of the new and old.
Batman: The Court of Owls DC Comics Perhaps, one of the greatest modern Batman stories ever told, The Court of Owls is a collision course between esteemed writer Scott Snyder and long-time comic book artist Greg Capullo. This series began the New 52 rebrand in 2011 for DC Comics. As such, the first issue of Batman was reset to No. 1. However, this story introduces Bruce and Damian to a new sinister, but unseen villain in Gotham City. Akin to the fabled Illuminati, the Court of Owls is a group of elites who ultimately interfere with political, social, and criminal networks within Gotham. They use nearly-immortal beings named Talons to assassinate key figures to guide Gotham toward the path they deem necessary.
While the Court was once a myth and nursery rhyme for children when Bruce was a youngster, he’s now come to discover that the evil governing body is, in fact, real and propped up by the richest families throughout the city. This is one Batman and Robin struggle that is an absolute must-read.
Editors' Recommendations 10 facts you didn’t know about Tim Burton’s unmade third Batman film Who should play Robin in the Batman: The Brave and the Bold movie? 8 animated DC films you need to watch now 5 comics to read after you watched The Flash The 5 best moments in The Flash Comic Book Movies DC Comics Entertainment At long last, after years of delays, DC's time-traveling blockbuster, The Flash, has reached theaters. When Barry Allen runs back in time to prevent his mother's murder, he ends up in a drastically different timeline without any heroes to protect the world from General Zod's invasion.
Given that the Flash travels the Multiverse and teams up with Michael Keaton's iconic version of Batman, this superhero film features an extraordinary number of Easter eggs that should give comic book fans a field day. To make it easier for viewers, here's a breakdown of all the DC references found in the Scarlet Speedster's first solo film.
Entertainment With the rise of Disney Plus and Max, many beloved comic book movies from Marvel, DC, and the rest have been moved out of Netflix's massive streaming library. With this mass exodus of superheroes from this online service, this may leave some wondering what's left to watch. Fortunately, there are still some terrific comic book films that audiences can still enjoy on Netflix right now.
Spider-Man (2002) Alright, let's do this one last time. After getting bitten by a genetically engineered spider, awkward high schooler Peter Parker uses his newfound superpowers to defend New York City as the costumed hero, Spider-Man. He then must face off against Norman Osborn, the wealthy scientist who inadvertently turns himself into the city's first supervillain, the Green Goblin.
Entertainment This weekend, movie theaters belonged to The Batman as Robert Pattinson stepped into the title role to make it his own. However, he's not the only Batman in the multiverse, or even the only Batman that will make his debut this year. Ahead of the film, Warner Bros. Pictures premiered a new trailer for the kid-friendly stand-alone animated film DC League of Super-Pets. And in this footage, the Dark Knight was voiced by none other than Keanu Reeves.
Reeves is best known for his leading roles in The Matrix and John Wick films. He might be a little too old to pull off a live-action Batman, but in animation, Reeves gets to embrace the two sides of the Caped Crusader. He's the grim avenger of the night, as well as a softer hero with a heart who can't resist the charms of his new pet, Ace the Bat-Hound.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
