Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix F1 Live Stream Stranger Things Season 5 Best New Movies Most Popular Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney+ UFC Live Stream Best Movies on Disney+ Home Entertainment Guides Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Where to watch every Christopher Nolan movie By Dan Girolamo Close No one does spectacle like Christopher Nolan. The 52-year-old is one of the few filmmakers whose name alone can sell a movie. Over two decades, Nolan has perfectly balanced critically acclaimed films and commercially successful projects. From the indies ( Following and Memento ) and psychological thrillers ( Insomnia and The Prestige ) to comic book adaptions (The Dark Knight trilogy) and mind-bending epics ( Inception and Interstellar ), Nolan continues to create films that feel special and have a “can’t miss” appeal.
Watch The Dark Knight Trilogy on Max Watch Dunkirk on Max and Netflix Watch Tenet on TBS Watch Interstellar on Prime Video and Paramount+ Watch Following on AMC+ or Tubi Rent Memento, Insomnia, The Prestige, and Inception Nolan’s 12th film, Oppenheimer , is scheduled for release on July 21. Before experiencing the WWII biopic about the “father of the atomic bond,” revisit Nolan’s previous 11 films. Most of them are available on streaming services.
 However, there are a handful that must be purchased or rented.
Note: This list will feature every film directed by Nolan. It will not include films where he only served as a producer, i.e., Man of Steel.
7 best performances in Christopher Nolan’s movies, ranked All of Christopher Nolan’s movies, ranked Where to watch every Scream movie Watch The Dark Knight Trilogy on Max Warner Bros. Pictures Nolan’s beloved trilogy about the caped crusader is available on Max.
 The three films in the trilogy: Batman Begins , The Dark Knight , and The Dark Knight Rises.
 Christian Bale stars as Bruce Wayne/Batman, the playboy philanthropist who served as Gotham City’s protector as a crime-fighting vigilante. The trilogy features memorable roles from Cillian Murphy as Dr. Jonathan Crane/Scarecrow, Tom Hardy as Bane, Gary Oldman as Jim Gordon, Michael Caine as Alfred Pennyworth, Morgan Freeman as Lucious Fox, and most notably, Heath Ledger as the Joker.
The Dark Knight , in particular, is widely considered one of the best comic book adaptations of all time.
Watch Dunkirk on Max and Netflix Warner Bros. Pictures Dunkirk , the war epic about the famous World War II evacuation, is available to stream on Max and Netflix.
Dunkirk utilizes Nolan’s signature nonlinear narrative to depict three perspectives of the evacuation: land, sea, and air. The large ensemble cast includes Fionn Whitehead, Tom Glynn-Carney, Harry Styles, Barry Keoghan, Cillian Murphy, Mark Rylance, Kenneth Branagh, and Tom Hardy. Considered one of Nolan’s best films, Dunkirk received eight Oscar nominations, including Nolan’s first directing nomination.
Watch Tenet on TBS Warner Bros. Pictures / Warner Bros. Pictures Nolan’s mind-bending thriller, Tenet , is available to stream on the TBS website with a TV provider. John David Washington stars as the Protagonist, a CIA operative recruited to travel back in time to stop a deadly attack that threatens the fate of humanity. Robert Pattinson, Elizabeth Debicki, Michael Caine, Dimple Kapadia, and Kenneth Branagh.
Tenet famously opened at the height of the COVID-19 pandemic in August 2020.
Watch Interstellar on Prime Video and Paramount+ Paramount Pictures / Warner Bros. Pictures / Paramount/Warner Bros.
For a filmmaker who directed a comic book masterpiece ( The Dark Knight ), Interstellar , available on Prime Video and Paramount+ , has arguably the strongest fanbase of any Nolan film on the Internet. After leaving Gotham City, Nolan went to space for Interstellar.
Set in a dystopian future, Earth is ravaged by famine, forcing scientists to search for another planet to serve as the next home for the human race. Cooper (Matthew McConaughey), a former NASA pilot turned farmer, joins an expedition across the galaxy and through a wormhole to explore three planets that could be humanity’s new home. Come for the excellent visuals, but stay for Hans Zimmer’s spectacular score.
Watch Following on AMC+ or Tubi Momentum Pictures Most fans cite Memento as his coming out party, but Nolan made one film two years prior, 1998’s Following.
 Serving as his debut feature, Following , now on AMC+ and Tubi , is a crime drama starring Jeremy Theobald as the Young Man, a London writer who tails strangers to use his observations as inspiration for a novel. After meeting the burglar Cobb (Alex Haw), the Young Man gets dragged into the criminal underworld. This 70-minute thriller provided the blueprint for the rest of Nolan’s career.
Rent Memento, Insomnia, The Prestige, and Inception Warner Bros. Pictures, 2010 Nolan’s four remaining movies (besides Oppenheimer ) are Memento , a mystery thriller about a man (Guy Pearce) suffering from amnesia on the hunt for the person who raped and murdered his wife; Insomnia , a cat-and-mouse thriller staring Al Pacino and Robin Williams about a detective investigating the murder of a teenage girl; The Prestige , a physiological game of one-upmanship between two rival magicians (Hugh Jackman and Christian Bale); and Inception , an enigmatic action film starring Leonardo DiCaprio about the infiltration of dreams. All four movies are not on any streaming service as of July 19. However, they can be purchased or rented on Prime Video, Google Play , and iTunes.
Oppenheimer opens in theaters on July 21.
Editors' Recommendations Where to watch Oppenheimer in 70mm IMAX 7 nuclear war movies like Christopher Nolan’s Oppenheimer you should watch Where to watch every Mission: Impossible movie Comic Book Movies DC Comics Entertainment On November 20, 1973, Charlie Brown and the Peanuts taught us to count our blessings and appreciate the important things in life in A Charlie Brown Thanksgiving. In the Emmy Award-winning animated special, Charlie and Sally Brown are supposed to head to their grandmother's house for Thanksgiving. Before they can leave, Peppermint Patty invites herself and a few friends over for dinner. Even though he can't cook, Charlie Brown decides to improvise and cook a simple meal with the help of Snoopy and Linus before heading to his grandma's.
Though not as popular as A Charlie Brown Christmas and It's the Great Pumpkin, Charlie Brown, A Charlie Brown Thanksgiving is still quite effective in conveying the true meaning of the holiday. It's an appropriate tribute to Thanksgiving. Here's how to watch A Charlie Brown Thanksgiving.
Watch A Charlie Brown Thanksgiving on Apple TV+ Entertainment This week is a particularly memorable one for Netflix's original series with two big premieres. The Crown – the British drama that has been one of the most popular shows on Netflix since its premiere in 2016 – is heading towards the finish line with the premiere of its sixth and final season. Additionally, the cult classic film and comic, Scott Pilgrim vs. the World, is getting a new anime series, Scott Pilgrim Takes Off.
With the Thanksgiving holiday coming next week, there's never been a better time to catch up on what's new on Netflix. You may even need the breather because it's been a busy year for Netflix. Don't worry, our weekly update of the best shows on Netflix will always be updated on Fridays to help you plan your weekend binge.
Entertainment Warning: This article contains spoilers for Thanksgiving (2023).
Director Eli Roth’s new horror-comedy, Thanksgiving, ends as all slasher movies should: With a few last-minute twists. Its third act follows the film's protagonist, Jessica (Nell Verlaque), as she escapes a horrifying dinner party massacre orchestrated by Thanksgiving's masked killer and makes it to a nearby warehouse. Once there, she discovers her town’s sheriff, Eric Newlon (Patrick Dempsey), lying unconscious near his patrol car and, shortly thereafter, watches through one of the nearby warehouse’s windows as her ex-boyfriend, Bobby (Jalen Thomas Brooks), takes off the same mask worn by her murderous pursuer.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
