Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix F1 Live Stream Stranger Things Season 5 Best New Movies Most Popular Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney+ UFC Live Stream Best Movies on Disney+ Home Entertainment Features Who is the better Superman: Henry Cavill or Christopher Reeve? By Anthony Orlando Close There has been much debate over which actor played the best Superman , with Christopher Reeve and Henry Cavill usually being the top two candidates. Having both played the Man of Steel the most on the silver screen, many people typically associate them with Superman whenever the hero comes to mind.
Cavill’s Superman has better villains Cavill’s Superman is a more realistic hero Reeve’s Superman is more experienced Cavill’s Superman has better fight scenes Reeve’s Superman is more optimistic Cavill’s Superman is not overpowered like Reeve’s So which Superman is better? However, there are still arguments over who played the Blue Boy Scout best. So with Cavill about to exit the DCEU and David Corenswet about to be the new Superman , it’s time to settle this debate and explain who is the better Superman.
Cavill’s Superman has better villains Image used with permission by copyright holder Though Gene Hackman’s Lex Luthor and Terrence Stamp’s Zod are considered classic Superman villains , they really don’t hold up today and are mainly seen through a nostalgic lens. Hackman’s villain is a campy but crooked businessman who just wants to get richer and more powerful, which doesn’t strike much fear into the hearts of Superman or the audience. At the same time, Stamp’s character is a hammy and power-hungry warlord who wants to take over Earth, seeing himself as superior to humanity in a traditionally evil way.
Best DCEU fights, ranked Is there going to be a John Wick: Chapter 5? Here’s what we want to see happen Most popular DCEU movies, ranked by box-office gross In contrast, the DCEU’s Superman had more layered and threatening villains in his rogues’ gallery. Zod is more menacing and sympathetic for trying to destroy the Earth to build a new Krypton following its destruction, feeling it’s his right and purpose as a Kryptonian leader. Also, even if Jesse Eisenberg’s Luthor isn’t that good, he is still better than Hackman’s, as he sees Superman as an unjust threat to the world due to his hateful and twisted views of God, and he briefly succeeds in turning Batman and Superman against each other before killing the latter with Doomsday.
In addition, Zack Snyder’s Steppenwolf is a monstrous but regretful alien who wants to create unity by stripping everyone of free will, as well as to return home after being banished for treason. And while Darkseid didn’t get much screentime in the DCEU as a big bad villain , he still cast a terrifying shadow over Superman and the multiverse thanks to the nightmarish future he is destined to create after breaking and brainwashing the Man of Steel.
Cavill’s Superman is a more realistic hero Warner Bros. / Warner Bros.
When Reeve’s Superman reveals himself to the world to help people and stop crime throughout Metropolis, everyone immediately welcomes him as a hero. In contrast, Cavill’s Superman is detained the minute he rears his head to stop General Zod, and this fear persists even after protecting the planet for almost two years.
The latter character shows how the people of Earth would really react if a nigh-invincible alien with world-ending powers appeared. Humanity wouldn’t immediately welcome him as their savior; they would understandably fear him. The DCEU’s Superman thus stands out as a deconstruction of the idealized American fantasy behind the iconic hero, questioning whether or not such a figure can actually exist in the real world today as he did in the comics.
Reeve’s Superman is more experienced Warner Bros. / Warner Bros.
Though Cavill’s Superman spent years traveling Earth in Man of Steel , he was a very inexperienced hero who had only just learned to fly by the time Zod arrived on Earth. Due to his lack of time on the battlefield, he was a sloppy fighter who caused too much collateral damage, as shown by all the destruction and casualties left during his battle with Zod in Metropolis.
But by the time Reeve’s hero left the Fortress of Solitude in Superman: The Movie , he had spent 12 years training with Jor-El’s hologram to master his powers, making him a conscientious and strategic hero the moment he moves to Metropolis. As a result, he was more aware and protective of the lives caught in the crossfire while fighting Zod in Superman II , wisely choosing to move the battle far away to the Fortress of Solitude.
Cavill’s Superman has better fight scenes Image used with permission by copyright holder Though Reeve’s Superman made audiences believe a man could fly, he was significantly lacking in the combat department. Since visual effects were still in their infancy back in the ’70s, Reeve only engaged in a few slow-paced action scenes as Superman that don’t exactly look good today.
Fortunately, thanks to the advancements in CGI leading up to Man of Steel , Cavill’s Superman let audiences see some outstanding fights as he defended Earth from evil. His explosive, high-octane fights with Zod and Doomsday look like they were taken out of a shōnen anime, showcasing the hero’s true power in an astonishing spectacle.
Reeve’s Superman is more optimistic Warner Bros.
Since Cavill’s hero struggles to find his place in a bleak and fearful world, his character doesn’t inspire the same kind of optimism as his predecessor. The dour tone of his story is best embodied by the muted color palette of his first two films. However, his inner conflict only displays the true humanity in his character and how even the Man of Steel can be fallible like everyone else. Also, the DCEU’s Superman does grow to be more like the comic book hero fans know and love over time, with his arc reaching its completion following his resurrection in Zack Snyder’s Justice League.
On the other hand, Reeve’s Superman is an embodiment of hope and positivity through and through, as he has no problem fighting for humanity and standing for “truth, justice, and the American way.” He did give up his powers to be with Lois Lane in his second film, but at the end of the day, he never loses confidence in himself or his abilities, and he always stands up for what’s right.
Cavill’s Superman is not overpowered like Reeve’s Image used with permission by copyright holder Reeve’s Superman was notoriously overpowered. He could somehow reverse time, erase Lois’s memory with a kiss, and repair the Great Wall of China just by looking at it. He could also throw his “S” symbol from his chest as a cellophane net to catch his enemies. While some of these powers may not be considered canon now, they display how some writers used Kal-El’s ambiguous, alien nature to add whatever ability was convenient for them and the story.
In contrast, Cavill’s hero sticks to the character’s traditional powers, which include super strength, lightning-fast speed, ultra-sensitive hearing, flight, heat vision, X-ray vision, and ice breath. While this modern Superman is extremely powerful, the audience knows his strengths and weaknesses early on, making his conflicts more suspenseful and less contrived.
So which Superman is better? Warner Bros. Pictures / Warner Bros. Pictures While Christopher Reeve has been widely hailed as the gold standard for playing superheroes, the overall execution of Superman and his story was arguably done better in Henry Cavill’s films.
He may have had a lackluster run as the Man of Steel, but thanks to his killer fight scenes, well-written character, realistic story, and impressive set of villains, Cavill has proven himself to be the superior Superman.
Editors' Recommendations Who is the best Joker ever? We rank all the actors who have played Batman’s No. 1 enemy 10 DCEU actors who should join the MCU (and who they should play) The best kills in John Wick: Chapter 4, ranked 8 actors who should star in Superman: Legacy (and who they should play) James Gunn’s Superman: Legacy: 6 things I want to see in the DC reboot Comic Book Movies DC Comics Features Entertainment Beloved actor Steven Yeun has been confirmed to have a significant role in Marvel Studios' upcoming film Thunderbolts. Yeun's star has soared in Hollywood in the past decade, having shined with his performances in projects like The Walking Dead, Minari, Okja, Sorry to Bother You, and more recently, Nope.
Given Yeun's versatility as an actor, it's anyone's guess as to which character he will portray in this superhero blockbuster. Even so, here are a few characters he could play in the Marvel Cinematic Universe.
Mister Negative Entertainment DC Studios co-head James Gunn announced that he is writing and producing an HBO Max animated series about the superhero team, the Creature Commandos. This show is one of the many projects that Gunn revealed will be part of the first chapter of his reboot of the DC Universe. When speaking about the series, Gunn said that DC would "have characters move into animation, out of animation, usually having the same actor play their voice as who plays them in live-action," meaning audiences could see these heroes crossover into live-action in the future.
The Creature Commandos are an unusual choice for a superhero series, given their less-than-notable status in the comics world. Despite this, Gunn has surprised audiences before by taking D-list characters Peacemaker and the Guardians of the Galaxy and making them stars overnight. The team also fits with the theme of the DCU's first chapter, which is aptly titled "Gods and Monsters." Even so, it wouldn't hurt to know more about this odd batch of heroes before they roll out onto HBO Max.
Comic book origins Entertainment Notorious Warhammer fan Henry Cavill is bringing the Warhammer Cinematic Universe to life with a Warhammer movie at Amazon. The news came after the announcement that he would, after all, not return as Superman in James Gunn and Peter Safran's blossoming DC Universe. However, Cavill didn't spend too much time licking his wounds and bounced back with this new announcement, which made Warhammer fans sigh with relief at having such a massive Warhammer fan behind the Warhammer-verse.
But what exactly is Warhammer? Well, to keep things simple, it's a tabletop miniature game. As Cavill so eloquently explained on Graham Norton, Warhammer is about putting miniature models in little armies and fighting against someone else's armies. There are two properties with the name Warhammer -- Warhammer, focusing on high fantasy, and Warhammer 40,000, focusing on science fiction. It's this last one that Cavill will help bring into live-action. The plot centers on humanity living in the gloomy 42nd millennium in a perpetual state of war against hostile alien races and supernatural powers.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
