Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix F1 Live Stream Stranger Things Season 5 Best New Movies Most Popular Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney+ UFC Live Stream Best Movies on Disney+ Home Entertainment Guides Who should play Robin in the Batman: The Brave and the Bold movie? By Christopher Hinton Close DC Comics Damian Wayne is no slouch. “I’m not like Tim, or Jason, or even Dick. I’m light-years ahead of all the past Robins in skill and training. I’m either your partner in this or I’m not.” Pretty blunt words coming out of the mouth of a youngster. But in all fairness, Damian Wayne is, perhaps, one of the most fascinating Robins to ever partner with Batman, his father. He never minces words and is forthright in his actions. Trained from a young age to be a killer in the League of Assassins, Damian has his own view on how criminals should be handled: they should be killed. But when Bruce takes his son under his wing as a crime-fighting partner, the two experience a few growing pains in their Dynamic Duo as their moral standings clash.
Mason Thomas Ian Armitage Aiden Gallagher Finn Wolfhard David Mazouz Damian Wayne is the Robin that is set to appear in the upcoming Batman and Robin film, The Brave and the Bold.
 Created by famed DC comics author Grant Morrison, Damian Wayne isn’t your average Boy Wonder, and it’s going to take skilled talent in order to capture this youngster’s bravado, intellect, and warrior spirit in live-action. In the DC comics source material, Damian Wayne is 10 years old when his father first meets him and learns of his existence. As a Robin, Damian dons the suit for years, eventually becoming a young teen. With that in mind, we’ll examine some of the best casting prospects for this famous Batman sidekick.
Mason Thomas Universal Pictures, 2022 / Universal Pictures It’s going to be difficult to find an actor between 10 and 15 years old who can have the physicality required for a powerhouse role like Damian Wayne. So, it’s likely that many options will be a tad older in the upcoming DC Universe. Mason Thomas is an excellent choice for the role of Damian’s take on the Boy Wonder. Having recently starred in the 2022 horror/thriller hit The Black Phone , Thomas has clearly shown he has the edge and the gravitas required to play a cutthroat like Damian.
All the Batman animated shows, ranked 10 cool things to know about Ben Affleck’s canceled Batman movie 5 actors who should play Spider-Gwen in a live-action MCU movie Of course, The Black Phone was his first major starring role. But it’s undeniable that he has the talent necessary. Throughout the film, he played the role of a young boy who was kidnapped by a serial killer and locked in his basement. His character was determined, fierce, and brilliant. These are all qualities that will easily translate to young Damian Wayne.
Ian Armitage CBS Most people may recognize this budding actor as the youthful incarnation of the future quirky Big Bang Theory physicist, Sheldon Cooper, on the aptly named series Young Sheldon.
 Ian Armitage has also had experience in the feature film department with titles like The Glass Castle, Our Souls at Night, I’m Not Here, and Scoob! under his belt. Truthfully, Armitage was born for the theater as the son of two parents who have experience on the stage.
Across Armitage’s short, but already full career, he has demonstrated a wide range in his ability to tackle roles with varying personalities, characteristics, and backgrounds. With Damian Wayne also being intellectually ahead of his physical age, it’s not very hard to hear the sarcastic wit of Armitage’s Sheldon applied to berating his Batman or others for their decisions. He’d be a prime candidate for such a role considering Sheldon Cooper would’ve been over the moon at the prospect of being in a Batman film.
Aiden Gallagher Netflix While he’s an older casting option for this role, Aiden Gallagher has the all the proper acting experience to portray a cold, calculating youngster who clashes with his father’s principles. He absolutely looks the part, which also helps his case. Gallagher portrays Number Five on The Umbrella Academy , a character who is plenty violent and capable of challenging others when the situation arises. It’s truly a nearly perfect role that fits in line with Damian Wayne’s ruthless behavior.
While Gallagher would be considered a young adult at this stage, it’s very possible that he could portray a teen character believably. Despite not having an extensive filmography, The Umbrella Academy is really all we need to see to know that Gallagher is absolutely a strong possibility for this role.
Finn Wolfhard Netflix This is a face most avid TV and film viewers are familiar with. Finn Wolfhard famously portrays Mike Wheeler on the ultrapopular Netflix series Stranger Things.
 He also has starred in films like Andy Muschietti’s It and the modern Ghostbusters sequel Ghostbusters: Afterlife.
Wolfhard has also appeared on individual episodes in major series such as the CW’s The 100 and Supernatural.
 It goes without saying that Wolfhard already has a wealth of experience in his young career.
Wolfhard is largely in the same situation as Gallagher age-wise. But he could believably still portray a teenager given the opportunity. Between Mike Wheeler in Stranger Things and Richie Tozier in It , Wolfhard already has displayed qualities of leadership and snarky wit that are both key elements of Damian Wayne’s persona. In his career, Wolfhard has already shown that he has range. There’s no doubt that he could be a reasonable candidate for the upcoming Robin. Considering Wolfhard has already worked with director Andy Muschietti on It and Muschietti is set to direct The Brave and the Bold , it’s also possible the director could favor him for the role.
David Mazouz Fox, 2018 / Fox Here’s one that’s a bit on the nose. Let’s consider the same young actor who portrayed a young Bruce to now don the Robin duds as the Dark Knight’s progeny. David Mazouz is currently in his early 20s, however, there’s no doubt that he’d have the perfect young “Wayne” appeal considering his past experience on Gotham.
Visually, he has a very strong Damian Wayne vibe in comparison to the character’s design in the comics.
Mazouz is also clearly familiar with the world of Batman, and has experience fighting crime on-screen. Throughout the entire run of Gotham , Mazouz grew both physically and in honing his acting talent. His filmography also includes credits in multiple theatrical feature films, including The Birthday Cake, Incarnate, and The Darkness so he has rubbed shoulders with actors like Ewan McGregor, Kevin Bacon, and another Batman alum, Val Kilmer. He should be on the radar of casting directors.
Editors' Recommendations 5 great Robin Williams movies you should watch right now Who is Batman’s best sidekick? All the Dynamic Duos, ranked Excited for Batman: The Brave and the Bold? Here are 5 DC comics you can read now 10 interesting facts about The Flash movie you should know Where to buy advance movie tickets to The Batman Comic Book Movies DC Comics Entertainment DC Comics' Dark Knight has a long history in movies and television, and now he's poised to return to the big screen in The Batman, the upcoming feature directed and written by Dawn of the Planet of the Apes filmmaker Matt Reeves. The film has a new release date, and we have our first peek at Batman's new look, his new Batmobile, and other much-anticipated elements of the movie.
The Batman - DC FanDome Teaser News Ben Affleck is reprising his role as Batman in the upcoming film, The Flash.
The Flash, directed by Andy Muschietti, is set to release in June 2022 and will center around the lightening-fast hero, Barry Allen, which will be played by Ezra Miller, according to Vanity Fair. The movie will be an adaptation to DC Comics’ Flashpoint series.
Entertainment Few comics outside of the world of comic book movies and superheroes have had greater influence in recent years than Scott Pilgrim vs. the World. The story was created by author Bryan Lee O'Malley and follows a man named Scott living in Toronto who is forced to battle the evil exes of a girl that he's interested in.
The legacy of Scott Pilgrim only increased after a movie adaptation was released several years later and became a cult classic in its own right. Now, with the new animated series adaptation Scott Pilgrim Takes Off streaming on Netflix, we're here to make the case that Scott Pilgrim is the best comic book ever. Here are 10 reasons why: It has a unique sensibility Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
