Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix F1 Live Stream Stranger Things Season 5 Best New Movies Most Popular Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney+ UFC Live Stream Best Movies on Disney+ Home Entertainment Features Why The Dark Knight is still the best comic book movie of all time By Dan Girolamo Close Warner Bros. Pictures Let’s travel back to 2008 and revisit pop culture, shall we? The most popular TV show in the country was American Idol.
 Studio comedies like Forgetting Sarah Marshall could still gross over $100 million at the box office. Plus, superhero fatigue did not exist, which is the perfect segue into our conversation about the best comic book movie of all time, The Dark Knight.
A neo-noir disguised as a comic book movie Heath Ledger’s iconic performance The Dark Knight’s lasting legacy Fifteen years ago today, The Dark Knight , Christopher Nolan’s highly-anticipated sequel to Batman Begins , hit theaters in the U.S. For a film billed as the event of the summer, The Dark Knight managed to exceed expectations and change the entire industry. A comic book movie centered around a caped crusader and a villain wearing clown makeup forced the Academy to nominate more films for Best Picture. This is the same Academy that somehow awarded Crash Best Picture. Yet, it bent the knee to a Batman movie.
The setup for The Dark Knight is relatively straightforward for a Christopher Nolan movie. After the events of Batman Begins , Batman ( Christian Bale ) is now the notorious crime-fighting vigilante of Gotham City. With the help of police lieutenant James Gordon (Gary Oldman) and district attorney Harvey Dent (Aaron Eckhart), Batman sets out to eliminate organized crime. Standing in his way is the Joker (Heath Ledger), the sadistic criminal mastermind and agent of chaos who wants to witness Gotham burn. The Joker pushes Batman to his limits, forcing Bruce to face several morally complex issues as he learns the true meaning of sacrifice.
Who is the best Joker ever? We rank all the actors who have played Batman’s No. 1 enemy 10 years later, is The Dark Knight Rises a bad film or simply misunderstood? A neo-noir disguised as a comic book movie Thanks to his commitment to originality and prowess in practical effects, Nolan is one of the few filmmakers who can sell a movie on his name alone. No filmmaker better understands spectacle and the process of “eventizing” a film than Nolan. When adapting the source material, Nolan viewed the comics as a guide, not a map. There are comic book principles he followed, such as Batman’s unwillingness to kill or use guns. However, Nolan used The Dark Knight as an excuse to make a crime drama.
The Dark Knight is a neo-noir disguised as a comic book movie and that’s what makes it so good. It’s not interested in fan service; instead, it simply wants to weave an elaborate morality play with the main players being comic book characters.
It’s like Nolan said “What if I make a remade of Michael Mann’s Heat set in Gotham City?” as he envisioned his Batman sequel in the mid-2000s. Did Nolan actually say that? No, probably not, but the filmmaker has stated in numerous interviews that Heat inspired The Dark Knight.
 Nolan told GQ how Mann turned Los Angeles into an “epic playground” in Heat.
Nolan did the same with Gotham, filmed in Chicago, for The Dark Knight.
 Nolan filmed The Dark Knight in a real city with real people and real effects. This is not a film that was shot on a soundstage.
The semi-truck flip happened.
 These practical effects, along with the sweeping shots of the city, add to the authenticity and grittiness of Gotham.
Speaking of Heat , Nolan’s homages to Mann’s action thriller are littered throughout the film. The opening scene heist and the car chase from The Dark Knight were inspired by the armored truck heist and bank shootout in Heat.
 Nolan’s use of masks and trucks, along with his inclusion of loud gunfire and chaotic energy, can all be attributed to Mann’s Heat.
 The Joker walking down the street with a shotgun is a stand-in for Robert De Niro’s Neil McCauley during a shootout against the police. The interrogation scene between Batman and the Joker is Nolan’s diner scene between De Niro and Al Pacino. Yet, these homages do not feel like blatant rip-offs because of Nolan’s creative direction and captivating screenplay.
Heath Ledger’s iconic performance Warner Bros. Pictures / Warner Bros.
It’s time to talk about Heath Ledger.
 Amazingly, it took me this long to mention the late actor’s name in The Dark Knight.
 Ledger’s Oscar-winning portrayal of the Joker is the undisputed king of comic book portrayals. It’s arguably the most iconic performance of the 21st century. Ledger was so brilliant that he outshone Christian Bale, a rarity for an actor regarded as one of the best of his generation.
From the moment he stepped on screen, The Dark Knight became Ledger’s movie. The sinister laugh. The smudged makeup. The red lipstick. The facial scars. The slick green hair. The constant licking of his lips. This attention to detail allowed Ledger to differentiate himself from previous Joker portrayals, most famously by Jack Nicholson and Cesar Romero. With so many debates in the industry about method acting, it’s refreshing to read such kind words about Ledger’s behavior on set from his colleagues and crew members despite remaining in character.
The Dark Knight’s lasting legacy Warner Bros. Pictures Ledger is only onscreen for 33 minutes, but his presence looms large over every scene. The Joker is a bad guy; I have no problem calling a psychopathic murderer out when I see one. Yet, the Joker forces the audience to see a different side of Batman, one where he’s not acting like a true hero. The Joker goads Batman into physically assaulting him during the interrogation scene. Batman fights crime without the support of the police (besides Gordon). He selfishly chooses to save Rachel (Maggie Gyllenhaal) over Harvey. These aren’t exactly heroic qualities. It’s not black-and-white or good guy vs. bad guy in The Dark Knight.
 There’s a lot of gray, and this ambiguity strengthens the battle between Batman and the Joker.
The Dark Knight became the superhero industry’s first billion-dollar movie. It created a blueprint for auteurs to follow when crafting a comic book adaptation. Nolan recently told HugoDécrypt e that he will never make another superhero movie. I agree with Nolan; he should never make another superhero movie.
 If the greatest comic book movie of all time is on your resume, your job in this genre is complete.
The Dark Knight is streaming on Max.
Editors' Recommendations It’s Barbenheimer time: The best double feature movies like Barbie and Oppenheimer 10 best comic book movies of the 2000s Comic Book Movies DC Comics Features Entertainment November has been a great month for movies at Netflix, with the premiere of David Fincher's The Killer, and recent box office hits like Insidious: The Red Door and Spider-Man: Across the Spider-Verse. This week, the new additions include The Impossible, a 2012 survival thriller that has already landed on the list of the 10 most popular movies on Netflix. For younger viewers, Minions is also heating up the charts despite the pending departure of the other films in the franchise at the end of the month.
There's only one holiday weekend left in November, so what's the best way to stay on top of everything new on Netflix? Why, we are, of course. Our list of the best movies on Netflix right now is updated every Friday, even on holiday weekends, so you can easily find something for every movie lover in your life.
Entertainment Summer is long over, and the fall season is in full swing. It's now late 2023, and just about everyone is subscribed to Netflix and Hulu. But would you be surprised if I told you one of the most underrated streaming services around is Tubi? The upstart streamer has tons of new and old TV shows from every decade and every genre imaginable. Want to watch the buzziest series that aired on Max? Tubi has it. Are you feeling nostalgic about that old movie or cartoon you used to watch as a kid in the '80s or '90s? Chances are, Tubi has it.
Tubi has so much content that it can be hard to choose which shows and films are worth your time. Digital Trends is here to help you sort out which ones are worth watching. Even though the streaming service is free, time is valuable, and no one wants to waste it watching subpar content.
Entertainment Rather than waiting for the Thanksgiving holiday weekend, Apple TV+ and Netflix dropped two of their biggest shows of the fall this week. Netflix's The Crown kicked off its sixth and final season with four new episodes, while the Apple TV+ Godzilla-adjacent series Monarch: Legacy of Monster, dropped its first two episodes this week, with new episodes arriving weekly thereafter. Also this week, Scott Pilgrim Takes Off hits Netflix, while Max gets in on the act this week by premiering the second season of Julia.
Netflix, Amazon Prime Video, Hulu, Max, Apple TV+, Disney+, Paramount+, and Peacock still have new shows coming for the rest of November, including a handful arriving next week. But if you've been thinking about cutting back on your streaming bill, then perhaps you should consider signing up for the ad-supported tiers. In the meantime, keep reading for our weekly roundup of the best new shows to stream.
When you're done here, check out the best new movies to stream this week, as well as the best shows on Netflix, best shows on Hulu, best shows on Amazon Prime Video, and best shows on Disney+.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
