Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Gaming Guides How to change your dice skin in Baldur’s Gate 3 By Jesse Lennox Close Even though your PC or console will be handling all the behind-the-scenes math, Baldur's Gate 3 still wants you to feel like you're playing a classic Dungeons and Dragons experience. To that end, you will still get to roll a digital D20 for important skill checks during your quests through the Forgotten Realms. If you're a little superstitious about how your rolls go, you may want to pick out a more "lucky"-feeling die to do your rolls. While you can't substitute in the trusty D20 you bring to your tabletop games, you can at least change the appearance of your in-game dice skins. Here's how to add a little personal touch to your die in Baldur's Gate 3.
Difficulty Duration What You Need Reach any check that prompts a dice roll Larian Studios How to change your dice skin The unfortunate part about changing your dice skin is that you can only do it at very specific moments in the game and at no other time. If you miss one of these chances, you'll have to wait for the next one.
Step 1: Play normally until you come across a skill check that brings up the dice-rolling screen.
Step 2: Look to the bottom right of the screen for an icon you can select called Customize Dice.
Step 3: Selecting this will bring up a menu where you can swap out your dice skin for any others you have available.
Step 4: Depending on which version of the game you have, you will have access to different skins. As of now, there are no ways to get more dice skins in-game, so your options are limited based on your version.
Editors' Recommendations One of the best games of the year is finally coming to Xbox next month How to get two primary weapons in Call of Duty: Modern Warfare 3 Will there be DLC for Baldur’s Gate 3? Is Baldur’s Gate 3 cross-platform? How to change your appearance in Starfield Apple Fantasy How-To Guides Gaming Larian Studios has an absolute hit on its hands with Baldur’s Gate 3. The Dungeons & Dragons-based CRPG sold millions of copies, has legions of fans, and we called it a “staggering CRPG with a level of player freedom that makes its possibilities feel endless” in our review. It's currently being considered a "Game of the Year" frontrunner ahead of this December's Game Awards -- a massive feat considering stiff competition from The Legend of Zelda: Tears of the Kingdom, Starfield, Resident Evil 4, and more.
Digital Trends met up with Swen Vincke, CEO of Larian Studios at PAX West 2023 to discuss the game's success. In a wide-ranging conversation, Vincke offered transparency on how the team approached open-ended player choice, the specific challenges of bringing it to Xbox Series S, and what sort of new content they’ve already started working on. The team may say it's resting after a long development journey, but there's much more work to do.
Gaming Romance options are by no means new in the CRPG genre. Even more traditional RPGs have added romance options for certain characters, but each game handles the process of actually entering into a romantic relationship differently. Baldur's Gate 3 is packed with interesting characters and companions that could catch your eye. Even if you're not new to CRPGs, it's always a challenge to understand what a certain character will like or dislike, as well as what actually counts as moving closer to a relationship with them. Thankfully, Baldur's Gate 3 developer Larian has made it so that there are no restrictions on who you can romance based on your chosen gender or race, so all that's left to do is study up on how to woo your dearly beloved.
All romance options and how to romance them There are eight possible characters you can enter into a relationship in Baldur's Gate 3, including all available companions. Relationships are based on earning positive opinions from them and hinge on the actions you take in the world with them in your party. Even if what you're doing doesn't directly impact them, they will think differently based on what they see you do, so keep that in mind before you do something your love interest might think less of you for. Also, be sure to speak to them each time you go to camp to further their individual stories.
You can check the approval rating for all characters under the Detailed View section of your character sheet. Make sure it is high before you do the quest where you rescue the refugees.
Astarion Gaming The story in Baldur's Gate 3 is shared equally between your own created character and your party of companions. Each one you choose to team up with has their own personalities, backstories, and goals that you can choose to help them accomplish during your travels through the Forgotten Realms. While you can only have three accompany you at any one time, there are far more that you can recruit and swap in and out to best suit the challenges ahead, or just to get a new perspective on events. Essentially, all companions are missable, even the early ones you're all but forced to interact with, but there are others that are harder to get, and some you have to choose between. Here's a full list of every potential companion in Baldur's Gate 3 and what you need to do to add them to your party.
All companions There are 10 potential companions to recruit in Baldur's Gate 3, each of a different race, class, and background. Some you meet early, some late, and others not at all depending on your choices.
Shadowheart The Cleric of the group, this is your first potential companion. As long as you choose to save her from her pod-thing on the Nautiloid ship in the opening of the game, you will find her on the beach you crash-land on. If you decided not to save her on the ship, you can still add her to your team by finding her farther east down the beach near the Dank Crypt.
Astarion Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
