Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Gaming Guides How to change your appearance in Baldur’s Gate 3 By Jesse Lennox Close Making your character can take a long time if you really want to get all the details right.
From your race , class, hairstyle, and more, you have a lot of options to tweak before ever starting your adventure. If you’re a little too excited, you might end up slacking off on making your character and assuming you can update it later just so you can get right into the action. If so, or you simply want to change up your look after a couple of hours into this massive game, you’ll be at a loss as to how, if you even can, change your appearance in Baldur’s Gate 3.
You may not fully like the answer, but here’s the best you can do in terms of altering your appearance after you’ve exited the character creator.
Can you change your appearance in Baldur’s Gate 3? Larian Studios The answer to this is technically yes, but not in the way you would hope. To get it out of the way, no, there’s no way to return to the character creation screen after you’ve finalized your character. Unlike respeccing your character , there’s no NPC, item, or magic mirror anywhere in The Forgotten Realms that will let you change your appearance.
The only way to somewhat get around this is to use the Mask of the Shapeshifter if you purchased the Digital Deluxe version of the game. If you put this mask on, your character will automatically get the Shapeshift spell for free — it doesn’t use up a prepared spell slot. When cast, you will get to pick between a few randomly generated characters to disguise yourself as, but you can’t alter the options in any way. Once changed, you will stay in this form for one in-game day, or until you choose to dispel it, before needing to cast it again. If you want to permanently alter your player character, you will, unfortunately, need to make a brand-new one.
Editors' Recommendations Best Perk-a-Colas in Modern Warfare 3 zombies, ranked How to fix packet burst in Modern Warfare 3 Modern Warfare 3 Zombies: tips and tricks for MWZ Is Call of Duty: Modern Warfare 3 cross-platform? How to rank up fast in Modern Warfare 3: best ways to farm XP Fantasy Gaming FBI agent Saga Anderson and her partner, Alex Casey, are called into Bright Falls to investigate a murder committed by a strange group calling themselves the Cult of the Trees. These dangerous cultists are your main enemy in Alan Wake 2, and they put up quite a fight despite mostly using basic tools as weapons. They seem mindless and primitive, but the fact that they have a series of Cultist Stashes hidden all around the world suggests otherwise. These treasure troves are very well hidden, and they're protected with a small puzzle to try and prevent those who may stumble upon one from grabbing all the goodies inside. You'll find yourself short on supplies essentially all the time in Alan Wake 2, so scooping up some extra ammo and batteries is always welcome. Here is where you can find all the Cultist Stashes in Alan Wake 2 and how to open them.
All Cultist Stash locations There are a total of 21 Cultist Stashes to find and unlock in Alan Wake 2. Each zone has its own set to find, and they all have different puzzles you need to solve to open them. None are missable, but some can't be obtained until you make story progress or get specific tools.
Bright Falls Cult Stashes The first Cult Stash you can find comes as soon as you reach the town of Bright Falls for the first time. Instead of going straight to your destination down the block, turn around and head toward the dead end. Behind the truck will be a big locked box. To open this one, all you need to do is play a little game of Simon Says. The keypad will flash three buttons in a sequence that you simply need to repeat to open the box and grab the loot.
Gaming Soulslike games love to have multiple endings that are just as cryptic and mysterious as the overall story is to unlock. Lords of the Fallen borrows this same idea in addition to the huge swath of weapons and gear to hunt down and experiment with. It will be tough enough for most players to just reach the end of this punishing game, but for those who are looking to go the extra mile, there are multiple endings with very specific requirements that lock away some very appealing rewards. The process of getting a new ending is far more difficult than answering a question or choosing a dialogue option at the end of the game. It will take quite a bit of preparation, so we'll detail exactly how you can get each ending in Lords of the Fallen and what it will give you.
All Lords of the Fallen endings There are three unique endings you can unlock in Lords of the Fallen known as the Radiance, Inferno, and Umbral endings. All three are tied to a Trophy/Achievement, plus unlock a new class.
Radiance ending We'll start with the most basic ending that you will probably get by default. The Radiance ending is unlocked if you cleanse all of the beacons, which is your explicit goal, and then move along the main path and beat all the bosses.
Gaming Everyone knows the iconic Spider-Man suit. The red-and-blue spandex uniform has been iterated on and altered hundreds of times over the course of decades, leading to some similar and some very different designs. Spider-Man 2 introduces Venom and the symbiote suit to the mix as a plot point, but there are almost 70 total suits from various comics, shows, and movies to unlock and wear between Peter pParker and Miles Morales. Unlocking them is one thing, but changing between them, and their new styles, is another. With this guide, you will be able to change your spider style as fast as our heroes when duty calls.
How to change suits Once you've snagged your first additional suit and used some Tokens to unlock it, changing between them is a breeze. Simply open your menu, go to the Suits tab, and highlight the one you want to wear. If you want to switch between Peter and Miles, simply hit L2 or R2 to cycle between the Spider-Men since each has their own unique set of suit options. Press X on the suit you want to wear and -- bam! -- your Spider-Man is now decked out in a new style. However, that's not all. Many suits have additional styles you can unlock by spending some Tech Parts. These give you three additional color options for that specific suit to further customize your look.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
