Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Gaming Guides Which Baldur’s Gate 3 class should you pick? By Jesse Lennox Close The world of Dungeons & Dragons , which is of course where Baldur’s Gate 3 comes from, is all about choice and crafting your own story through the world.
Baldur’s Gate 3 promises plenty of ways to alter the story, including a reported 1,700 different ending permutations. But the first and most important decision you make will be which class your main character is. Along with your race, your class is what will define how your character plays, including what roles they are best suited for and what abilities they can learn in and out of combat. With 12 to pick from at the start, plus 48 total subclasses within those main 12, it can feel like an overwhelming choice to make so early. To make things easier, we’ll break down all the classes in Baldur’s Gate 3 to help you decide which one to pick.
All Baldur’s Gate 3 classes Barbarian Larian The Barbarian is likely the easiest class to wrap your head around just based on the name. This class focuses primarily on the Strength stat and is all about melee damage. They are proficient with light and medium armor, shields, simple and martial weapons, plus get the unique Rage class action. When you enter the Rage state, you deal more damage and can survive fatal wounds. Their saving throws are linked to the Strength and Constitution stats.
The Barbarian subclasses are Berserker, Wildheart, and Wild Magic.
Bard Larian Bards are probably not going to be a popular pick for most players, but don’t judge them too quickly! Yes, the Bard focuses on music to buff their companions as opposed to being the frontline fighter or casting flashy spells, but they will keep your party alive and are one of the best choices for skill checks outside of combat thanks to their high charisma. Bards are proficient in light armor, simple weapons, hand crossbows, longsword, rapier, shortsword, and musical instruments (of course). Your class action is Bardic Inspiration which buffs an ally’s next attack, ability check, or saving throw. Speaking of, your saving throw will be related to your dexterity and charisma.
The Bard’s subclasses are College of Lore, College of Valor, and College of Swords.
Cleric Larian Now we’re getting to the more magical classes. Clerics use the power of their gods to fuel their magic, which also influences how you interact with characters in the world depending on which faith you choose to follow. You will have a range of all types of spells, including offensive, defensive, and healing. Clerics use light or medium armor, shields, and simple weapons. What is unique about Clerics is that they can also go right into any of their subclasses as soon as you start.
The Cleric subclasses are Life Domain, Light Domain, Trickery Domain, Knowledge Domain, Nature Domain, Tempest Domain, and War Domain.
Druid Larian If that Druid clip the devs showed us got you interested in this class, why not give it a spin for yourself? This is another spellcasting class, but obviously, nature and shapeshifting-focused. They can use most weapon types in the game, but their real power is the Wild Shape ability that lets them transform into a specific creature that has its own HP pool and abilities, effectively allowing you to play two roles in one. Intelligence and wisdom will be your main stats for this class.
The Druid subclasses are Circle of the Land, Circle of the Moon, and Circle of Spores.
Fighter Larian The classic Fighter is probably the best choice for newcomers because of its straightforward nature. You can pick between strength or dexterity-focused builds if you want to use melee or ranged/finesse weapons, can use any type of armor, and most weapons. This class also gets access to the Second Wind ability to use a bonus action to regain HP based on your level. Saving throws will be tied to strength and constitution.
The Fighter subclasses are Battle Master, Eldritch Knight, and Champion.
Monk Larian This isn’t your peaceful, pacifist-style Monk, but your quiet and deadly type. This class is perfect if you want to go with a fully hand-to-hand based character that is fast and deadly. You will mainly be pumping dexterity, but also wisdom to fuel your Ki attacks. You won’t be wearing much of any armor with this class, so make sure you don’t get hit. Your saving throws are based on strength and dexterity.
The Monk subclasses are Way of the Open Hand, Way of the Shadow, and Way of the Four Elements.
Paladin Larian You could think of the Paladin as the more melee-focused version of the Cleric since they both draw power from faith. That said, the Paladin still does have some powerful spells for healing and buffs to back up their brawn in battle. All armor is available here, with simple or martial weapons being preferred. Paladins also come with the Lay on Hands class action which is a simple healing move you can use on any target (including themselves) you touch for 4 HP. Also like the Cleric, you will choose your subclass right away.
The Paladin subclasses are Oath of the Ancients, Oath of Devotion, Oath of Vengence, and Oathbreaker (unlocked by breaking any of the other oaths).
Ranger Larian If you fancy yourself a more subtle, hunter-like player, go for the Ranger. While you will mainly be using ranged weapons, Rangers also have a nice set of spells and passive abilities to make hunting and ambushing targets quite effective. Dexterity will obviously be your primary stat here, with strength also contributing to your saving throws. Rangers can also get access to an animal companion to help them in battle.
The Ranger subclasses are Hunger, Beast Master, and Gloom Stalker.
Rogue Larian Want to stick to the shadows, strike, and slink away unnoticed? If so, pick a Rogue. This class is all about dealing critical strikes to unaware enemies from hidden locations with close or long-range weapons. For this, dexterity will be your main stat to focus on, with some intelligence to help your saving throws. Outside of combat, this class can also help you get around by sneaking through enemy encampments, picking locks, and disarming traps.
The Rogue subclasses are Arcane Trickster, Thief, and Assassin.
Sorcerer Larian Sorcerers may be spellcasters, but they focus on charisma to power their magic. Obviously, you will primarily be using spells, but the type and their effect will all depend on your subclass and origin, which you will choose right away. Saving throws are linked to constitution and charisma again, and while you could use a dagger or light crossbow, quarterstaffs are your best weapons.
The Sorcerer subclasses are Wild Magic, Draconic Bloodline, and Storm Sorcery.
Warlock Larian Unlock Sorcerers, Warlocks get their magic from a deal struck with an Otherworldy Patron of the Realms, which can vary depending on which subclass you choose. They can also utilize some light armor and simple weapons, but to balance out how strong their spells can be, have fewer slots than other magic classes. Charisma will be your main stat here as well, plus wisdom for saving throws.
The Warlock subclasses are The Fiend, The Great Old One, and The Archfey.
Wizard Larian Last up, yet another magic user is the Wizard. This is the image you most likely have in your mind for a magic user, who is focused on intelligence and wisdom, staffs, and can learn a wide range of spells. Because of how many subclasses there are that completely change your spell options, the Wizard is perhaps the most versatile class in the game. To help your casting, Wizards get the Arcane Recovery class action that, once per day and while out of combat, allows you to replenish your spell slots.
The Wizard subclasses are Evocation, Abjuration, Conjuration, Divination, Enchantment, Necromancy, Illusion, and Transmutation.
Editors' Recommendations Which class should you pick in The Finals? Will there be DLC for Baldur’s Gate 3? Is Baldur’s Gate 3 cross-platform? All companions in Baldur’s Gate 3 and how to get them How to level up fast in Baldur’s Gate 3: best ways to farm XP Fantasy Gaming If you've been patiently waiting for Baldur's Gate 3 to arrive on PlayStation 5 while PC players got an early start, you won't have to wait much longer, unlike Xbox players. By now you don't need us to tell you just how amazing this game has shaped up to be, and are more than likely already prepared with your choice of character and just waiting for the green light to finally dive into this massive CRPG. But if your excitement has gotten the better of you and you don't know exactly when Baldur's Gate 3 will be ready to play, how to preload, or even if you can get in on the game a little early, we've got you covered.
Baldur's Gate 3 release time Baldur's Gate 3 will come out for all PS5 players officially on September 6 at 9 a.m. PT / 12 p.m. ET. Anyone who purchased the Digital Deluxe Edition gets 72 hours of early access, meaning you can start playing on September 3 instead.
Baldur's Gate 3 file size Gaming Larian Studios released Patch No. 1 for Baldur's Gate 3 today, almost a month after launch and following several hotfixes. It brings over 1,000 gameplay improvements and bug fixes to the highly successful RPG.
Baldur's Gate 3 has been a massive success since its August 3 release on PC, but it definitely hasn't been free of bugs and some other weird quirks. Four hotfixes have addressed some of the most pressing issues, but these patches are much larger in scale when it comes to what they add and fix. Larian says Patch 1 is primarily focused on game balance and flow tweaks, as well as bug fixes. There's nothing too glamorous or game-changing, but it should make playing Baldur's Gate 3 an even smoother experience.
A couple of these fixes have to do with the game's romance system. A bug causing the conclusion to Shadowheart's romance to not activate properly has been fixed, and animations have been added so taller characters don't awkwardly kiss or hug shorter ones anymore. Fixes have been made in preventing bugs at the Morphic Pool, an issue where loot wouldn't appear on corpses in multiplayer, and some Game Over screens problematically appearing where they shouldn't have. There are way too many tweaks and bug fixes to list here, so we recommend going to the Baldur's Gate 3 website to check out the full list.
Unfortunately, game performance improvements aren't part of Patch 1, as Larian Studios is saving those for Patch 2. But it says that we "won’t be waiting long" for those. Baldur's Gate 3 is available now for PC, comes to PlayStation 5 on September 6, and will launch on Xbox Series X/S before the end of the year.
Gaming After years in early access only on PC, Baldur's Gate 3 is finally here in its final state. This CRPG has the internet buzzing about just how long and varied the experience can be. What's even better is that it can be played in co-op, though with limited cross-platform features. Those looking at the game may notice that there is only ever mention of a PC and PlayStation 5 version, which obviously raises the question about Xbox consoles. Baldur's Gate 3 doesn't have any exclusivity deal with PlayStation, so why isn't it on Xbox, and will it ever be? Will Baldur's Gate 3 come to Xbox? https://twitter.com/Cromwelp/status/1685821620756021249?s=20 The latest update from Larian states that it will be able to release Baldur's Gate 3 on Series X and S sometime before the end of 2023, but with the S version not having split-screen coop.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
