Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Gaming Guides All companions in Baldur’s Gate 3 and how to get them By Jesse Lennox Close The story in Baldur’s Gate 3 is shared equally between your own created character and your party of companions. Each one you choose to team up with has their own personalities , backstories, and goals that you can choose to help them accomplish during your travels through the Forgotten Realms. While you can only have three accompany you at any one time, there are far more that you can recruit and swap in and out to best suit the challenges ahead, or just to get a new perspective on events. Essentially, all companions are missable , even the early ones you’re all but forced to interact with, but there are others that are harder to get, and some you have to choose between. Here’s a full list of every potential companion in Baldur’s Gate 3 and what you need to do to add them to your party.
All companions There are 10 potential companions to recruit in Baldur’s Gate 3 , each of a different race , class, and background. Some you meet early, some late, and others not at all depending on your choices.
Shadowheart Larian Studios The Cleric of the group, this is your first potential companion. As long as you choose to save her from her pod-thing on the Nautiloid ship in the opening of the game, you will find her on the beach you crash-land on. If you decided not to save her on the ship, you can still add her to your team by finding her farther east down the beach near the Dank Crypt.
Astarion Larian Studios Depending on your path, this is probably the second character you can add to your ranks by going north and west of the crashed ship. You’ll hear Astarion calling out for help, and when you approach, he’ll claim there’s a nearby monster he wants you to kill. While this ends up being a trick, if you forgive him, he will gladly join you. Astarion is a rogue class, so he’s very handy for breaking into locked areas.
Gale Larian Studios Almost right after you find Astarion, Gale will be another voice calling out for aid. This wizard has found himself caught in a portal and needs some help getting all the way through. Help the man out and he’ll be ready and willing to join your party, plus he’ll introduce you to Waypoints you can use for fast travel.
Lae’zel Larian Studios It takes a minute to meet back up with Lae’zel after she helps you bring down the Nautiloid ship, and when you do, she’s in a sticky situation. North of where you encounter Gale, Lae’zel has found herself captured by two Tieflings you need to convince or fight to free her. If you feel bad about fighting them, make sure to take them out non-lethally.
Wyll Larian Studios Wyll is very missable since he is simply among the many people in the Druid’s Grove in the north. After you fight the small Goblin forces and can go inside, Wyll can be found teaching some Tiefling children to fight. Chat with the man, who happens to be a powerful Warlock class, and he’ll team up with you.
Karlach Larian Studios Wyll can actually help you locate Karlach, who happens to be near the river south of the Risen Road waypoint and east of the tollhouse. Just know that the conversation to recruit Karlach is a bit more tense with Wyll present, but it’s possible. Still, to make it a bit smoother to bring on this tough Barbarian, it’s best to leave Wyll at camp.
Halsin Larian Studios If you saw that romance scene with the bear, and we know you have, then you’ll be looking for Halsin. The Druid is actually recruited by completing a quest to rescue him from the Goblin Camp where he’s being held. Find him in a cage by the Worg Pens, set him free, and then kill the remaining Goblin Leaders. Once that’s done, meet up with him back at the Druid Grove and he’ll join the team.
Minthara Larian Studios Minthara can be a party member, but choosing her means you can’t recruit Halsin, and Wyll will also leave your party for what you need to do to get her. If you’re interested in the Drow Paladin, go into the Shattered Sanctum before attacking the Goblin Camp and speak to her. Here, you will need to sell out the Druids to her and help her attack and destroy their base. Once the Goblins win, speak to her at the celebration to have her join your team.
Minsc Larian Studios Minsc is one of the later party members you can get once you reach the Lower City. You will need to go down and navigate through the puzzles of the sewers until you encounter him. When you do, you will be forced to fight him, so make sure you only knock him out with a non-lethal attack if you want to recruit him. Once he’s safely unconscious, take out his friends and choose the following dialogue prompts.
“Try to protect him. I must defy my urge.” “He’s Jaheira’s friend. Do it.” “I don’t think you want to find out,” or “It doesn’t matter — help him.” After Minsc’s mind is freed and he runs off, chase him down and chat with him to join forces.
Jaheira Larian Studios Even though you meet Jaheira early in Act 2 , it takes a lot of legwork to actually have her become a companion. You first speak in the Last Light Inn, but need to progress until you’re ready to attack the Moonrise Towers. She will meet you near the towers and give you the option to either have her lead the army as commander or have her temporarily join your party, which you should pick. Go through the dungeon and make sure she survives until you’re about to go into the pits to face Kethric. Before you do, talk to Jaheira and say, “Face Kethric with me.” This will make her a permanent companion after finishing the dungeon.
Editors' Recommendations How to fix packet burst in Modern Warfare 3 All stash locations in Alan Wake 2 and how to open them All gestures in Lies of P and how to get them All weapons in Payday 3 and how to unlock them Where to find Benryn and Mirileth’s dowry in Baldur’s Gate 3 Fantasy Gaming Having come out on both PC and PlayStation, with Xbox said to arrive in the near future, adventurers have already dumped hundreds of hours in Baldur’s Gate 3. This unexpected hit for the CRPG genre is as deep as it is long, and yet some have already managed to plow through all three of the game's acts. Despite there being tons of ways to experiment and replay using all the different Races and Classes, people are already getting hungry for more. In the modern age, DLC for massive hits like Baldur’s Gate 3 is almost a sure thing, and yet this game is by no means normal. From its long early access period to the sheer amount of dynamic and reactive ways to interact with the world, this is a very unique product. That has left many to question whether or not there will ever be any DLC for Baldur’s Gate 3.
Is Baldur's Gate 3 getting DLC? At the time of writing, there are no concrete plans for DLC for Baldur’s Gate 3, but that doesn't mean it isn't in the cards. The latest update Larian has given on any potential future expansions came from an IGN interview with Product Manager Tom Butler during Gamescom 2023. He stated "We'll carry on patching for a while and then we're all going to take a holiday and then we'll figure out what we do next. But at the moment, we genuinely have discussions. We want to do more. We don't know what yet." No doubt the team deserves a break after the years of work put into Baldur’s Gate 3, and while fans will be somewhat disappointed to know nothing beyond fixes and updates are in the works as of now, you can at least know that it is being talked about.
Gaming Making your character can take a long time if you really want to get all the details right. From your race, class, hairstyle, and more, you have a lot of options to tweak before ever starting your adventure. If you're a little too excited, you might end up slacking off on making your character and assuming you can update it later just so you can get right into the action. If so, or you simply want to change up your look after a couple of hours into this massive game, you'll be at a loss as to how, if you even can, change your appearance in Baldur's Gate 3. You may not fully like the answer, but here's the best you can do in terms of altering your appearance after you've exited the character creator.
Can you change your appearance in Baldur's Gate 3? The answer to this is technically yes, but not in the way you would hope. To get it out of the way, no, there's no way to return to the character creation screen after you've finalized your character. Unlike respeccing your character, there's no NPC, item, or magic mirror anywhere in The Forgotten Realms that will let you change your appearance.
Gaming The biggest CRPG of the year, if not ever, promises a huge adventure that you are encouraged to play cooperatively with up to four friends. While online play is expected in the modern era, Baldur's Gate 3 surprisingly also supports split-screen co-op on every PC and PS5 as well, meaning you can run an entire campaign with a friend side-by-side. As great as all that is, the vast majority of people will likely want to play with a friend in the comfort of their own homes, which might mean a PC player and a PS5 player will want to team up. Is that possible in Baldur's Gate 3? Here's a quick rundown of this game's cross-platform support.
Is Baldur's Gate 3 cross-platform? In short, no, Baldur's Gate 3 will not allow for cross-platform play. If you are playing on PC, then anyone you want to play online with will also need to be on PC, and the same is true for PS5. While this is true for now, it is possible that Larian Studios may add cross-platform play in a future update, but for now, it is safer to assume it won't come and make your purchasing decision accordingly.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
