Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Upcoming PS5 Games PlayStation Plus Best PS5 Games Connect PS5 Controller to PC Best PS5 Headsets How to Turn Off PS5 Free PS5 Games Xbox Series X vs PS5 PS5 Voice Commands Home Gaming Features Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? The Lord of the Rings: Gollum was too broken to review on PS5 By Tomas Franzese and Giovanni Colantonio Close Update (5/26): We returned to the PlayStation 5 version of The Lord of the Rings: Gollum after Update version 1.003.000 was released, and have found the experience has improved notably. It does still feature plenty of bugs, which we experienced on the PC version, but it’s far more stable on console now. Progression-preventing glitches have disappeared, and the updated PS5 version has yet to crash on us. If you’re grabbing the game on console, make sure to download the patch before starting.
Why we didn’t review The Lord of the Rings: Gollum What next? What’s unclear is how many of the problems were actually fixed. During the review period, Nacon’s PR team attributed Gollum ‘s performance problems in part to a setting that animated the character’s hair. The patch appears to remove that option from the game entirely. It’s likely that the problems the toggle was causing still persist behind the scenes, so it’s hard to say if the game was fully fixed, so much as a problem feature was cut.
We opted to review the full game on PC after experiencing the issues mentioned below. You can read our one-star review of the game, which calls it a “throwback to the Wild West era of carelessly greenlit licensed games.” Original Story: We had planned to post a review for the PlayStation 5 version of Daedalic Entertainment and Nacon’s The Lord of the Rings: Gollum today, but we can’t do that in good faith at this moment. Simply put, the PS5 version we tested was too broken to fairly critique.
After downloading the PS5 code we received from a PR representative for Nacon, we booted up the game, interested to see Daedelic’s interpretations of Gollum’s tragic story. We could load up the game just fine and watch the game’s intro, but within five minutes of playing, the game crashed. That certainly struck us as odd, but prelaunch builds of games do crash sometimes. We chalked it up to a normal incident, restarted the game, and kept on playing.
Then it happened again. And again. And again.
During our first two hours with The Lord of the Rings: Gollum , the PS5 version of the game crashed 11 times. On top of that, we experienced many other bugs, like objectives not triggering, losing the ability to move, and Gollum getting stuck in the floor for a second upon respawning. It quickly became apparent that it would be difficult to critique this game properly. So this is not a proper review of The Lord of the Rings: Gollum.
Instead, we want to paint a clear picture of what shape the game was in less than 24 hours ago, as well as provide a sense of how many of those issues you can expect after its day one patch.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Why we didn’t review The Lord of the Rings: Gollum In the little time we did end up spending with The Lord of the Rings: Gollum prelaunch, we did see the basics of the game’s story, platforming, stealth , choice system, and puzzles. We found all of those elements initially intriguing, if a bit antiquated. However, our experience was much too unstable to get a true feel for how this game will play post-release. After the 11th crash, we deemed that the technical state of The Lord of the Rings: Gollum on PS5 was too dire for us to keep playing for review.
So, why not just stop there and give Gollum a zero-star or half-a-star review? Well, that’s not fair to the game, either. These technical issues were so overbearing that it felt impossible to critically assess The Lord of the Rings: Gollum as a gaming experience in a legitimate way. It’s Digital Trends’ belief that if a game is outright broken like this, it’s not yet worthy of a review in a traditional sense. When Digital Trends’ gaming team gives a low score , it’s because of something more intrinsic to the game’s design or execution of its idea. But those games are still functional experiences that we can see to the end. With Gollum in the state it was in, it would have been like writing a review for a film that didn’t run through the projector properly.
After experiencing so many game crashes across gameplay, cutscenes, and even once while the game was booting up, we reached out to the PR agency that provided the code, making them aware of the issues. They told us that the problem may have stemmed from “a memory issue regarding Gollum’s hair” (yes, that’s a toggleable option in-game) and that a patch for the PS5 version would come ahead of launch. We toggled the hair simulation off at the team’s suggestion, but still ran into multiple crashes and some other glitches.
Image used with permission by copyright holder We were offered a PC code for The Lord of the Rings: Gollum when we brought up my issues with the PS5 version and was told it didn’t have game crash-related problems. After playing through the first four hours, that seems to be correct. We didn’t experience a crash in that time, though we did encounter a bevy of other issues, from load times that lasted well over a minute to frequent audio desyncs during cutscenes. Those issues aside, the PC version does at least seem stable enough to play and we’ll likely be reviewing it there in the coming days.
However, we felt that the PS5 is a popular platform that many will buy the game on — and one that’s generally reliable when Digital Trends tests games. After discussing the situation internally, we felt that there were red flags there and that it would be worth holding back a review regardless of how it ran on other platforms. As such, we made a decision on Tuesday to delay the planned review and instead give an honest explanation of the issues the PS5 version of The Lord of the Rings: Gollum faced prelaunch.
What next? All of these issues with The Lord of the Rings: Gollum on PS5 may sound like a nightmare, but the truth is that a lot of video games we review tend to be in rough shape even days before launch.
The Callisto Protocol featured performance issues that hard-locked the game a few hours in, prompting the developers to deliver an emergency patch over Thanksgiving weekend — one that reset our progress. Those issues didn’t pop up in the final release, but it still had its fair share of tech problems at launch.
So where does that leave Gollum ? On Tuesday of this week, we got an email saying that a Day 1 patch “should address some issues in the game,” and that the crashing was caused by “a problem with the save game system [that] has led to save files occasionally being corrupted after specific actions, e.g. dying and restarting.” As those patches are just rolling out now, there wasn’t enough time for us to play the PS5 version of The Lord of the Rings: Gollum properly for review.
Still, we don’t recommend playing The Lord of the Rings: Gollum on PS5 at release. These patches may resolve many of the game’s most significant technical issues, but it’s also very possible that other issues will remain (note that the patch is only expected to address “some” issues). Interested players should keep an eye on the general technical state of the game after the day one patch before playing, as we will.
If it doesn’t improve, you may want to check out how the game runs on other platforms; at the moment, we don’t know how it runs on Xbox Series X or past-gen consoles. We especially can’t recommend picking up The Lord of the Rings: Gollum for PS5 physically unless you plan to update it immediately, as a patch-less version of the game will be akin to the experience we had during the review period.
Daedalic Entertainment Despite the fact that buggy prelaunch builds are common, it’s rare that we receive a game in this kind of state mere days ahead of its release. These aren’t bugs that drag down an otherwise completely playable experience, as was the case with recent titles like Redfall or Star Wars Jedi: Survivor ; a non-updated version of The Lord of the Rings: Gollum on PS5 is pretty much unplayable.
Digital Trends never takes a piece like this lightly. We can only imagine the stress and last-minute work this has caused behind the scenes, and we sincerely hope that the issues outlined here are resolved by the time you’re reading this. However, as it stands, we don’t have confidence that The Lord of the Rings: Gollum will launch free of significant issues. There are simply too many problems on PS5 to fix in a single patch, so we feel it’s worth raising those red flags with our readers weighing whether or not to buy a $60 game. We hope that the technical experiences are resolved swiftly, and we look forward to giving the game a fair reassessment on PS5 when that happens. We’ll do our best to update this post when we have a better idea of how it fares post-patch. In the meantime, you can expect a full review of the PC version sometime in the next few days.
The Lord of the Rings: Gollum is available now for PC, PS4, PS5, Xbox One, and Xbox Series X/S. A Nintendo Switch version of the game is in development.
Editors' Recommendations Got a PS5? Here’s how to get 6 free months of Apple Music An internet connection is required to connect the new PS5’s disc drive PS5’s new Digital Edition brings console gaming one step closer to PC PS5 finally gets Dolby Atmos device support in latest system software beta The Lord of the Rings: Gollum publisher lays off internal development staff Fantasy Features Sony Sony PlayStation Sony PlayStation 5 Gaming Dbrand is back with new console covers, or as it calls them "darkplates," for PlayStation 5 consoles. These new Retro Darkplates are supposed to be throwbacks that mimic the colors of translucent Nintendo 64 systems.
This announcement marks the accessory manufacturer's grand return to making console covers for the PS5. Dbrand previously sold PS5 darkplates during the system's first year on the market, but Sony threatened legal action against the company. After that, Dbrand said at the time that it was forced to "submit to the terrorists' demands" and stopped selling darkplates. Sony ended up releasing colored console covers of its own in 2022. Clearly, Dbrand is now confident enough again in its product (or found a legal loophole) to start selling these darkplates for the PS5, and decided to base them on some of its viral social media posts.
These new darkplates come in four N64-inspired colors: Atomic Purple, Ice Blue, Fire Orange, and Smoke Black. The side panels are translucent, while Dbrand also provides a cover for the black center bar on the PS5, which makes it look like it's translucent as it shows an image of the system's innards. If you choose to buy a Retro Darkplates kit, you'll get one Retro Darkplate set, one hue-matched retro middle and bottom skin, three left light strips, three right light strips, and a microfiber cloth.
Gaming Over the past few years, I’ve found myself mourning the PlayStation brand I grew up with. When I was a kid, PlayStation was an eccentric platform home to the kind of oddball creative swings you now only ever see indie publishers take a chance on. In the PS5 era, though, Sony has doubled down on a cinematic action-adventure formula that feels less safe (though likely way more profitable) by comparison. It’s an understandable pivot, but it leaves me hungry for more diverse experiences on my PS5.
Thankfully, that desire has been satiated with Humanity, a game that’s already nabbing several impressive accolades from me. It’s the best reason to subscribe to PS Plus, the best game currently available on PlayStation VR2, and perhaps the best PS5 console-exclusive period (it’s also available on PC via Steam). The unique puzzler has all the markings of those left-field PlayStation classics I love … except for the fact it wasn’t developed or published by Sony at all.
Gaming Sony revealed new details about its PlayStation 5 accessibility controller, which has been renamed from Project Leonardo to the Access Controller. A new blog post details what comes with the controller and offers a glimpse at the UI interface that players will use to customize it on the PS5.
Sony surprise revealed its "Project Leonardo" at CES earlier this year (Digital Trends named it the best gaming tech of the show). The circular pad features a unique design meant to make it easier for people with disabilities to customize controls to their needs. While it still doesn't have a price or release date, Sony has opened a new website for its newly renamed Access Controller and shared new details on it.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
