Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix F1 Live Stream Stranger Things Season 5 Best New Movies Most Popular Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney+ UFC Live Stream Best Movies on Disney+ Home Entertainment Guides 10 more times The Simpsons predicted the future By Anthony Orlando Close How do they do it? The Simpsons have become famous for predicting a variety of world events, such as Trump’s U.S. presidency, FIFA’s bribery scandal, and Disney’s acquisition of 20th Century Fox.
The God Particle The Ebola Outbreak Legal marijuana in Canada The winners of the Nobel Prize Trump 2024 The OceanGate submersible tragedy An everyman becomes an astronaut The three-eyed fish America beats Sweden in Olympic curling The destruction of King’s Landing Either the showrunners have access to a crystal ball, or all of their writers who went to Harvard studied under Professor X. Nevertheless, there seem to be many more instances of this animated series correctly guessing future events. Let’s break them down, shall we? The God Particle 20th Television / 20th Television First hypothesized in 1964, the Higgs boson particle is part of the Higgs field, which gives mass to other elementary particles, making it responsible for the existence of atomic elements and, thus, the entire universe.
The existence of this “God particle” was proven in 2012, but physicist Simon Singh confirmed that, in the season 10 episode The Wizard of Evergreen Terrace , Homer writes down an equation that actually predicts the mass of the Higgs boson. Who would’ve thought The Simpsons would confirm the origin of the universe first, beating scientists by 14 years? The Ebola Outbreak 20th Television / 20th Television The 1997 episode Lisa’s Sax features Marge offering to read the young Bart a children’s book titled, “Curious George and the Ebola Virus.” Though Ebola has been known to exist as far back as the 70s, countries outside of Africa, including the U.S., didn’t face a huge outbreak of the virus until the one that occurred in 2013.
Legal marijuana in Canada 20th Television / 20th Television In the 2005 episode Midnight Rx , Homer, Flanders, and Apu travel to Canada to smuggle prescription drugs into Springfield. While they’re in the Great White North, Flanders meets his Canadian doppelgänger, who offers him a “reeferino,” saying it’s legal in the country. However, it wasn’t until 2018 that Canada legalized marijuana for recreational use.
The winners of the Nobel Prize 20th Television / 20th Television Milhouse proved himself to be quite the gambler in Elementary School Musical , an episode that begins with him and his friends betting on who would win the Nobel Prize. Though this episode aired in 2010, two people on Milhouse’s list, Bengt R. Holmström and W.E Moerner, would receive the Nobel Prize in their respective categories years later.
Trump 2024 20th Television / 20th Television It’s already common knowledge that the show predicted Trump’s presidency way back in the year 2000. But it is also worth noting that in 2015, The Simpsons predicted that Trump would run again in the 2024 election.
In the short video Trumptastic Voyage , Homer takes a surreal journey into Trump’s hair, where viewers can see a floating campaign sign that reads, “Trump 2024.” The OceanGate submersible tragedy 20th Television / 20th Television When OceanGate’s Titan submersible vanished while visiting the Titanic shipwreck in mid-2023, many people found eerie similarities between the breaking news story and the 2006 episode Homer’s Paternity Coot.
In it, Homer pilots a sub to retrieve an undersea treasure, only to get stuck in some coral and nearly die from a lack of oxygen. Though Homer survives this undersea peril, the five crew members of the Titan weren’t so fortunate, as the latter’s vessel imploded in a tragedy that made headlines worldwide.
An everyman becomes an astronaut 20th Television / 20th Television The classic episode Deep Space Homer shows NASA sending Homer, an ordinary man, into space to boost their Nielsen ratings. This premise may have been based on the now-defunct Teacher in Space Program, but the U.K. pulled a more similar stunt with a contest back in 2013, which ended with “average Joe” Oliver Knight getting the chance to get launched into the stars. Let’s hope that’s all this episode predicted because I, for one, don’t welcome any insect overlords.
The three-eyed fish 20th Television / 20th Television The three-eyed fish Blinky has been a minor but recurring character in The Simpsons.
 Having been created by the nuclear waste left by Springfield’s nuclear power plant, this mutant fish has gone on to become the mascot of the town’s curling team and has even made cameos in Futurama.
However, Blinky made the jump to reality when a similar three-eyed fish was discovered in Argentina, swimming in a reservoir contaminated by a nearby nuclear plant.
America beats Sweden in Olympic curling 20th Television / 20th Television In the 2010 episode, Boy Meets Curl , Homer and Marge compete with the U.S. curling team against Sweden at the Vancouver Olympics. Though they nearly admit defeat, the Simpsons win the match.
This episode parallels the match between the U.S. and Sweden at the 2018 Winter Olympics, which showed the former winning the gold medal in a surprising comeback.
The destruction of King’s Landing 20th Television / 20th Television The season 29 episode The Serfsons reimagines Springfield as the medieval fantasy kingdom “Springfieldia,” where magic and dragons exist in the vein of Game of Thrones and The Lord of the Rings.
This story very much foreshadows the twist ending to the former’s penultimate episode, The Bells , in which Daenerys Targaryen burns down King’s Landing on the back of one of her dragons. The episode ends with Homer reviving a dragon, which burns Springfieldia to the ground in a sea of fire. Seriously, who wrote this episode? Bran Stark? Fantasy HBO Entertainment This week is a particularly memorable one for Netflix's original series with two big premieres. The Crown – the British drama that has been one of the most popular shows on Netflix since its premiere in 2016 – is heading towards the finish line with the premiere of its sixth and final season. Additionally, the cult classic film and comic, Scott Pilgrim vs. the World, is getting a new anime series, Scott Pilgrim Takes Off.
With the Thanksgiving holiday coming next week, there's never been a better time to catch up on what's new on Netflix. You may even need the breather because it's been a busy year for Netflix. Don't worry, our weekly update of the best shows on Netflix will always be updated on Fridays to help you plan your weekend binge.
Entertainment Warning: This article contains spoilers for Thanksgiving (2023).
Director Eli Roth’s new horror-comedy, Thanksgiving, ends as all slasher movies should: With a few last-minute twists. Its third act follows the film's protagonist, Jessica (Nell Verlaque), as she escapes a horrifying dinner party massacre orchestrated by Thanksgiving's masked killer and makes it to a nearby warehouse. Once there, she discovers her town’s sheriff, Eric Newlon (Patrick Dempsey), lying unconscious near his patrol car and, shortly thereafter, watches through one of the nearby warehouse’s windows as her ex-boyfriend, Bobby (Jalen Thomas Brooks), takes off the same mask worn by her murderous pursuer.
Entertainment he Hunger Games has remained a surprisingly powerful force in modern pop culture despite the fact that until just recently, there hadn't been a new movie in the franchise in almost a decade. Thanks to a few great slogans ("I volunteer as tribute," "May the odds be ever in your favor," etc.) and a compelling premise, the series still lives on in the imaginations of many people who loved the books and movies when they were initially a phenomenon.
With a new entry, The Hunger Games: The Ballad of Songbirds & Snakes, now in theaters, the franchise is now back in the zeitgeist. In addition, a recent surge in viewing on streaming platforms like Netflix and now Peacock makes this an ideal time to look back at The Hunger Games and remember the indelible characters that made this franchise so fascinating and moving.
10. Beetee Latier Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
