Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Windows 12 GTA 5 Cheats Wordle Today iPhone 15 Deals Upcoming Movies Nintendo Switch 2 NYT Connections Today Google Pixel 8 Pro Review Home Gaming Guides Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? The best Xbox Series X games for 2023 By Sam Hill and Jesse Lennox Close After an uneven console cycle with the Xbox One, Microsoft’s latest consoles are aimed at getting the ship back on course. The Xbox Series X is a next-generation powerhouse that rivals gaming PCs, while the Xbox Series S is an affordable stopgap for those who are curious about trying new games.
Shooters Adventure and RPGs Platformers Sim, puzzle, and more There’s no shortage of games to play on either console thanks to Xbox Game Pass , which gives players immediate access to a library of titles old and new. That built-in catalog is an extra value on top of all the new games available on the system that take advantage of its impressive technical specs. When it comes to first-party exclusives, the Series X is still growing.
Halo Infinite and Forza Horizon 5 gave a good boost to the console’s library following a somewhat sparse first year. More games are also on the way. Microsoft’s Bethesda acquisition will bring exclusives like Starfield and the potential addition of all Activision Blizzard games would further bolster that list, but the console’s real strength lies in third-party support.
We’ve combed through the current batch of new Xbox games to put together an updated running list of titles that new console owners shouldn’t miss. And don’t forget to check out the best upcoming Xbox Series X games as well.
Where to find planes in Fortnite OG The best Call of Duty games, ranked The best PS5 exclusives Shooters Resident Evil 4 PC (Microsoft Windows), PlayStation 4, PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X|S Shooter, Puzzle, Adventure Capcom Development Division 1 Capcom March 24, 2023 Read less Call of Duty: Modern Warfare II PC (Microsoft Windows), PlayStation 4, Xbox One, PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X|S Shooter Infinity Ward Activision Blizzard October 28, 2022 Read less Overwatch 2 PC (Microsoft Windows), PlayStation 4, Xbox One, Nintendo Switch, PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X|S Shooter Blizzard Entertainment Blizzard Entertainment October 04, 2022 Read less Halo Infinite PC (Microsoft Windows), Xbox One, Xbox Series X|S Shooter 343 Industries Xbox Game Studios November 15, 2021 Read less Remnant II PC (Microsoft Windows), PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X|S Shooter, Role-playing (RPG), Adventure Gunfire Games Gearbox Publishing July 25, 2023 Read less HITMAN 3 PC (Microsoft Windows), PlayStation 4, Xbox One, PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X|S, Google Stadia Shooter, Tactical, Adventure IO Interactive IO Interactive January 20, 2021 Read less Destiny 2 PC (Microsoft Windows), PlayStation 4, Xbox One, PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X|S, Google Stadia Shooter, Role-playing (RPG), Tactical, Adventure Bungie Activision September 06, 2017 Read less Control: Ultimate Edition PC (Microsoft Windows), PlayStation 4, Xbox One, Nintendo Switch, PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X|S Shooter, Adventure Remedy Entertainment 505 Games August 27, 2020 Read less Resident Evil Village PC (Microsoft Windows), PlayStation 4, Xbox One, PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X|S, Google Stadia Shooter, Adventure Capcom Capcom May 07, 2021 Read less High on Life PC (Microsoft Windows), PlayStation 4, Xbox One, Xbox Series X|S Shooter Squanch Games Squanch Games December 13, 2022 From the creators of the hit animated sci-fi show Rick and Morty , High On Life is a surprising shooter that delivers a fun, space-y adventure with that classic hit-or-miss Justin Roiland humor. The story finds a nameless protagonist and their sister flung in the middle of an alien conflict while their parents are on vacation. We won’t spoil the story here but it’s a lovely little adventure full of hijinx, shootouts, and in-jokes.
Read less Adventure and RPGs Starfield PC (Microsoft Windows), Xbox Series X|S Shooter, Role-playing (RPG), Adventure Bethesda Game Studios Bethesda Softworks September 06, 2023 Bethesda’s latest RPG sends players into space to pilot their own spaceship and explore hundreds of star systems. While the game may not be as expansive as players had originally hoped , it has been a massive success.
 A No Man’s Sky doppelganger with a Fallout 4 style, anyone who has enjoyed previous Bethesda titles or loves sci-fi adventures will enjoy losing themselves in this game.
Read less Diablo IV PC (Microsoft Windows), PlayStation 4, Xbox One, PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X|S Role-playing (RPG), Hack and slash/Beat 'em up Blizzard Entertainment Blizzard Entertainment June 02, 2023 Read less Marvel's Midnight Suns PC (Microsoft Windows), PlayStation 4, Xbox One, Nintendo Switch, PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X|S Role-playing (RPG), Strategy, Tactical Firaxis Games 2K December 02, 2022 Read less Elden Ring PC (Microsoft Windows), PlayStation 4, Xbox One, PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X|S Role-playing (RPG) FromSoftware Bandai Namco Entertainment February 25, 2022 Read less Star Wars Jedi: Survivor PC (Microsoft Windows), PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X|S Adventure Respawn Entertainment Electronic Arts April 28, 2023 Star Wars Jedi: Survivor is a sequel to 2019’s excellent Star Wars Jedi: Fallen Order and expands on it in almost every way. The story feels more ambitious and personal at the same time, as all of the worlds players can explore as Cal are more densely packed with content than before, and combat has been refined to be even more fun thanks to new stances and perks players can use.
It’s an entirely single-player Star Wars adventure, and a meaty one at that. This game can easily keep you entertained for 20 hours or more and tells the most engaging Star Wars narrative since Andor.
 This is one of the best Star Wars games ever made, so fans of the franchise shouldn’t miss out on it.
Read less Sea of Thieves PC (Microsoft Windows), Xbox One, Xbox Series X|S Simulator, Adventure Rare Xbox Game Studios March 20, 2018 Read less Scarlet Nexus PC (Microsoft Windows), PlayStation 4, Xbox One, PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X|S Role-playing (RPG), Adventure Bandai Namco Studios Bandai Namco Studios June 24, 2021 Read less Assassin's Creed Valhalla PC (Microsoft Windows), PlayStation 4, Xbox One, PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X|S, Google Stadia Adventure Ubisoft Montreal Ubisoft Entertainment November 10, 2020 Read less Like a Dragon: Ishin! PC (Microsoft Windows), PlayStation 4, Xbox One, PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X|S Role-playing (RPG), Hack and slash/Beat 'em up, Adventure Ryū Ga Gotoku Studios Sega February 21, 2023 Read less Yakuza: Like a Dragon PC (Microsoft Windows), PlayStation 4, Xbox One, PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X|S Role-playing (RPG), Hack and slash/Beat 'em up, Adventure Ryū Ga Gotoku Studios Sega January 16, 2020 Read less Immortals Fenyx Rising PC (Microsoft Windows), PlayStation 4, Xbox One, Nintendo Switch, PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X|S, Google Stadia Puzzle, Adventure Ubisoft Québec Ubisoft December 02, 2020 Read less Tunic PC (Microsoft Windows), Mac, PlayStation 4, Xbox One, PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X|S Adventure, Indie Andrew Shouldice Finji March 16, 2022 If there’s one franchise just about everyone wants but can only get on one console, it’s Nintendo’s Zelda titles. While we can’t actually get the official adventures of the tunic-wearing hero of Hyrule, we can get games heavily inspired by them, with one of the best being Tunic.
This game has you take control of a little fox in a green, well, tunic, wielding a sword and shield. If you imagine Link, only with fox features, that’s the main character. And the inspiration doesn’t just stop at the visual design, but the gameplay, too. You explore a big, confusing world full of puzzles and monsters to fight while learning the distinct language of the land. The twist of collecting the game’s manual in the game itself is a simple but fantastic way to really engross you in the experience.
Read less Pentiment PC (Microsoft Windows), Xbox One, Xbox Series X|S Role-playing (RPG), Adventure Obsidian Entertainment Xbox Game Studios November 15, 2022 In a year that lacked many compelling Xbox Series X exclusives, Pentiment stands out as a narrative-focused adventure RPG set in 16th Century Europe. Sporting a unique art style and engaging story for murder, mystery, and impactful choices, Pentiment is one of the best games published by Xbox Game Studios in some time. Its a bit subtler on the RPG front with its persuasion system and character backgrounds, but it should appeal to fans of that genre just as much as it would to adventure game fans.
Read less Platformers Psychonauts 2 PC (Microsoft Windows), PlayStation 4, Xbox One, Xbox Series X|S Platform, Adventure Double Fine Productions Xbox Game Studios August 25, 2021 Read less It Takes Two PC (Microsoft Windows), PlayStation 4, Xbox One, PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X|S Platform, Adventure Hazelight Studios Electronic Arts March 25, 2021 Read less Ori and the Will of the Wisps PC (Microsoft Windows), Xbox One, Nintendo Switch, Xbox Series X|S Platform, Adventure Moon Studios Xbox Game Studios, iam8bit March 10, 2020 Read less Sim, puzzle, and more Street Fighter 6 PC (Microsoft Windows), PlayStation 4, Xbox One, PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X|S Fighting, Arcade Capcom Capcom June 02, 2023 Read less Forza Horizon 5 PC (Microsoft Windows), Xbox One, Xbox Series X|S Racing, Sport Playground Games Xbox Game Studios November 09, 2021 Read less Crusader Kings III Linux, PC (Microsoft Windows), Mac, PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X|S Role-playing (RPG), Simulator, Strategy Paradox Development Studio Paradox Interactive September 01, 2020 Read less Microsoft Flight Simulator PC (Microsoft Windows), Xbox Series X|S Simulator Asobo Studio Xbox Game Studios August 17, 2020 Read less Tetris Effect: Connected PC (Microsoft Windows), Xbox One, Nintendo Switch, Xbox Series X|S, Meta Quest, Meta Quest 2 Music, Puzzle, Indie, Arcade Monstars, Resonair Enhance May 14, 2020 Read less Gears Tactics PC (Microsoft Windows), Xbox One, Xbox Series X|S Strategy, Tactical Splash Damage Xbox Game Studios April 28, 2020 Read less Editors' Recommendations Best Black Friday gaming laptop deals: Cheapest prices today One of the best games of the year is finally coming to Xbox next month These are the best microphones for streaming you can buy Netflix subscribers are getting one of the decade’s best games The PS5 games with the best graphics Microsoft Xbox Gaming It's out with the old and in with the new for the PlayStation 5, as Sony has replaced its old 2020 model with a slimmer redesign. The new model fixes one of its predecessor's biggest issues thanks to its 1TB storage upgrade. As is the case with any console, not all of that space is actually usable. In testing our own review unit, we've been able to break down just how much of an upgrade it actually is.
When popping into the storage menu, the new PS5 says it has 848GB of space. You'll find that some of that is already taken up by a few things, including Astro's Playroom, which comes installed on the system out the box. That'll leave you with 830.6GB, though you can delete the game to get 11.06GB back. The only thing you can't cut is 6.33GB of system files. All in all, that means you have roughly 842.2GB of usable space.
Gaming Murphy is far more than a man in RoboCop: Rogue City. His robotic and cybernetic enhancements have made him the perfect crime-fighting machine, or so we thought. As it turns out, there is a lot of room for upgrades in your new body and multiple ways to invest your points. The tree is broken down into eight different categories, and each one has three unique perks sprinkled in that give you new and powerful abilities. Or rather, some of them do. Depending on how you want to dispense justice, there are plenty of skills that will be a complete waste of time to get. Before you go on your quest to serve the public trust, protect the innocent, and uphold the law, make sure you know the best skills to unlock in RoboCop: Rogue City.
Best skills to unlock The skill tree in RoboCop: Rogue City is broken into the following eight categories: Combat, Armor, Vitality, Engineering, Focus, Scanning, Deduction, and Psychology. There are 10 slots in each, with perks unlocking at the second, sixth, and final slots. Note that once a skill point is invested, you cannot change your mind later.
Shield You may be in a shiny metallic body, but you aren't invincible. Especially in the early game, you will find yourself a bit less tanky than you expect. Thankfully all you need to do is pump two points into the Armor tree to get the Shield ability. Once active, you reduce all incoming damage by 80%. If you're digging that feeling, you can even go to the next perk which is High Damage Reduction. This is a passive skill that automatically cuts explosive and high-caliber weapon damage by 25%. There's no need to max out this tree since Deflect isn't all that useful in the long run.
Fuse Boxes Recovery Taking less damage is great, but what about when you need to heal? The first perk in Vitality makes Fuse Boxes healing items that restore 50% of your health, plus increases how many OCP Recovery Charges you can store up to 4. Depending on how difficult you find the game, you can continue down to basically get a better version of this skill that makes Fuse Boxes restore all your health and cap your Recovery Charges at 5, or invest all the way and unlock Auto Regeneration to passively restore HP up to 75%.
Dash You're a walking tank, but that doesn't mean you have to move like one. Dash unlocks on the second node of the Engineering tree and gives you, well, a dash! You can use it to slam into enemies, get into or out of cover, or just maneuver around however you need. Movement in RoboCop: Rogue City is a bit clunky, so this makes combat far more responsive.
Enhanced Learning This will be a skill you need to spend a lot of time investing in the Deduction tree to get but should be done as early as possible if you're going to go for it. Enhanced Learning increases all XP gain by 30%, thus making all future skills easier to get. Plus you will get Enhanced Scanning and Enhanced Map on the way, which make doing side missions and gathering items around the map way easier.
Gaming Blink while playing one of the best city-building games, and you'll lose countless hours expanding your city, refining your infrastructure, and focusing your trade. Ever since the original Sim City, we've been losing sleep designing the perfect utopias for our digital citizens, and as time has gone on, they've only gotten more satisfying to build.
Although city-building games usually carry a steep learning curve and tons of content, beginners can dive into any option on our list and have a good time. The genre has expanded to include tons of big hitters, with exciting sequels like Cities Skylines 2 on the horizon. We have a mix of hardcore survival experiences like Frostpunk and minimalist builders like Islanders, so there's something for everyone.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
