Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix F1 Live Stream Stranger Things Season 5 Best New Movies Most Popular Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney+ UFC Live Stream Best Movies on Disney+ Home Entertainment Guides 3 underrated shows on Prime Video you need to watch in August By Anthony Orlando Close People are always looking for something new to watch on streaming. While there is a seemingly endless array of TV shows to watch on Prime Video, viewers can still feel there’s nothing good to watch. For those unsure of what to stream this summer, there are plenty of underrated shows that Amazon has either produced or picked up from broadcast TV.
The Goes Wrong Show (2019-2021) Upload (2020-present) The Lord of the Rings: The Rings of Power (2022-present) To make it easier for you to narrow down your options and make sure you enjoy your summer, check out these three exemplary shows on Amazon Prime Video this August.
The Goes Wrong Show (2019-2021) BBC / BBC Mischief Theatre has made quite a name for itself in recent years. From the U.K., the members of this comedy team portray a terrible theatre troupe that messes up countless stage plays in glorious fashion. Fortunately, those wary of paying to see one of their plays in person can see the group for themselves on their very own TV series.
3 action movies on Prime Video you need to watch in November 3 sci-fi movies on Prime Video you need to watch in November 3 great rom-coms on Prime Video you need to watch in November Each episode of The Goes Wrong Show has the cast try and fail to present a different play to audiences every week, and as the name implies, things go wrong in every conceivable way. With actors screwing up their lines, props malfunctioning, and sets falling apart, this series has proven that it had ended far too early and that Mischief Theatre should continue to grow most relevant.
Upload (2020-present) Amazon Prime Video / Amazon Prime Video Created by the guy who brought The Office to the U.S., Upload follows a computer programmer whose girlfriend transfers his mind to a digital afterlife following a deadly accident. Though he struggles to adjust to his strange new life, he grows close to his real-life handler and sees a greater mystery unfolding as he investigates the truth behind his death.
The ambitious plot may not have been to everyone’s liking so far, and it may not have reached the high peaks of comedy seen at Dunder Mifflin. Nevertheless, this union of The Good Place and The Matrix has produced a hilarious and thought-provoking story that explores the many possible ramifications of humanity’s continued use and development of VR technology.
The Lord of the Rings: The Rings of Power (2022-present) Amazon Prime Video / Amazon Prime Video It may be surprising to hear someone call a Lord of the Rings series “underrated,” but Amazon Prime’s billion-dollar prequel has yet to win over audiences. Despite it being one of Amazon’s most highly watched shows, of all the millions of people who started watching The Rings of Power , The Hollywood Reporter claims that only about 37% of them actually finished the first season. And since the series was on the receiving end of some racist and misogynistic backlash, it doesn’t seem like enough people have given this show a fair chance.
Set in the Second Age of Arda, this series follows a young Galadriel as she obsessively hunts down the Dark Lord Sauron as an army of orcs rises up and ravages Middle-earth, culminating in the creation of the titular rings. Though it’s only finished one season, the show has done a terrific job building upon J.R.R. Tolkien’s established lore for Middle-earth while staying true to it. Audiences should try to revisit the series to prepare for the next season, as the war for Middle-earth has only just begun.
Editors' Recommendations 3 dramas on Prime Video you need to watch in November 3 underrated shows on Netflix you need to watch in November 3 comedies on Prime Video you need to watch in November 3 TV comedies on Prime Video you need to watch in November 3 underrated movies on Prime Video you need to watch in November Amazon Amazon Prime Video Fantasy Streaming Services Entertainment Amazon Prime Video has plenty of high-profile shows. Most recently, these include Gen V, a critically praised spinoff of The Boys, and Upload, which concludes its third season this month. But there are other shows, new and older, that sometimes fly under the radar.
What about an exciting hidden gem to check out that maybe your friends and family haven’t seen yet? Check out these three underrated shows on Prime Video you need to watch in November.
Romancero ? Romancero ? | Tráiler oficial | Prime Video España Entertainment October 31st is less than a week away, but you don't need overnight delivery from Amazon Prime to give you a Halloween treat. Amazon Prime Video already has you covered with a selection of the best horror movies that you can stream.
Our picks for this list include what maybe Sam Raimi's final horror flick, a classic from the '80s, and a Prime Video original film that only recently premiered. These are the three best horror movies on Prime Video to watch this Halloween.
Drag Me To Hell (2009) Entertainment Upload has returned on Prime Video for its third season, this time with episodes streaming two at a time each week. The sci-fi comedy-drama tells the story of a young man named Nathan (Robbie Amell), who dies tragically in a car accident. But before the life drains out of him, his consciousness is uploaded to a lavish afterlife community by his obsessive girlfriend, who now holds the purse strings to his happiness.
Whether you've binged your way through previous seasons, or you’re watching season 3, you can quench the need for similar stories with these five shows to watch if you like Upload.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
