Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix F1 Live Stream Stranger Things Season 5 Best New Movies Most Popular Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney+ UFC Live Stream Best Movies on Disney+ Home Entertainment News All the new series heading to Max, including Penguin and Harry Potter By Blair Marnell Close HBO Max, as a brand, is no more. In its place, Warner Bros. Discovery is unveiling Max, the long-promised combination of HBO Max and Discovery+.
 And while the new Discovery shows don’t exactly thrill us, the powers that be at WBD have dropped a lot of new information about Max original series that should help it hang on to the HBO crowd. And perhaps the biggest arrival is The Penguin , the upcoming spinoff from The Batman.
Although the eight-episode series is still being filmed, Max released the first footage from The Penguin in the featurette above. We see Colin Farrell reprise his role as Oswald Cobblepot, the man known as The Penguin. Due to Batman’s actions in the film, Cobblepot now has a clear path to becoming the next crime lord in Gotham City.
The Batman director Matt Reeves is executive producing The Penguin , with Lauren LeFranc as the writer and showrunner. The series’ cast includes Cristin Milioti, Rhenzy Feliz, Michael Kelly, Shohreh Aghdashloo, and Deirdre O’Connell. Clancy Brown and Michael Zegen will also have recurring roles on the show when it premieres on Max in 2024.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Next on the agenda is a Harry Potter TV series. Unlike Fantastic Beasts , this is not spinoff or prequel. Instead, it will be a more faithful adaptation of J.K. Rowling’s original novels than the movies could provide. That means it will have an entirely new cast to play the iconic characters from the Wizarding World. And each season will be devoted to adapting a single book from Rowling’s novels Rebooting Harry Potter as an HBO series is a bad idea Star Wars’ distant past has potential for Game of Thrones-like drama Game of Thrones deserves to be a great video game like Elden Ring In a statement, Rowling said “Max’s commitment to preserving the integrity of my books is important to me, and I’m looking forward to being part of this new adaptation, which will allow for a degree of depth and detail only afforded by a long-form television series.” Image used with permission by copyright holder Thanks to the continued success of House of the Dragon , another Game of Thrones spinoff is coming to HBO and Max. The new series is called A Knight of the Seven Kingdoms: The Hedge Knight.
 It’s based on George R.R. Martin’s novella series about the Tales of Dunk and Egg.
 Dunk is the titular knight, and his squire, Egg, is secretly a member of the Targaryen royal family who is destined to sit on the Iron Throne. It’s set a few decades before the events of Game of Thrones.
Martin will executive produce and co-write the series with Ira Parker. Ryan Condal and Vince Gerardis have also signed on to executive produce the series.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Sci-fi and fantasy fans won’t get all of the attention on Max. Horror fans are also going to have a new show of their own as Max explores The Conjuring universe in a new series. Specific details about the show are still under wraps, and James Wan is in talks to return as an executive producer. The Conjuring movies have already had two spinoff franchises, Annabelle and The Nun , and the new show will reportedly continue the narrative of the films. A creative team for the series was not announced.
Younger fans and families will soon be able to enjoy Gremlins: Secrets of the Mogwai.
 This animated series will serve as a prequel to the two Gremlins feature films while exploring how Sam Wing, Gizmo’s original owner in the movies, came to possess the Mogwai decades earlier. As seen in the trailer above, Sam first encounters Gizmo when he is a captive in China. But Sam soon takes it upon himself to reunite Gizmo with his fellow Mogwai, even as the deadly Gremlins emerge at inopportune times.
Zach Galligan, who portrayed Billy Peltzer in the two films, will have a guest-starring role on the series. The regular cast includes Ming-Na Wen, James Hong, BD Wong, Matthew Rhys, Izaac Wang, AJ LoCascio, and Gabrielle Nevaeh Green. Tze Chun is the showrunner for the series, and the premiere date is Tuesday, May 23, on Max.
After a long hiatus, True Detective is back for a fourth season, which will be called True Detective: Night Country.
 All three previous seasons featured genuine film stars in leading roles, and this season is no exception. Jodie Foster is leading a cast that includes Kali Reis, Fiona Shaw, Finn Bennett, Isabella Star Lablanc, Aka Niviâna, Anna Lambe, Joel D. Montgrand, Christopher Eccleston, and John Hawkes. This season, Issa López is taking over as the showrunner while directing every episode. Series creator Nic Pizzolatto remains attached as an executive producer.
Although the premiere date was not disclosed, the logline reveals that this season’s story takes place in Ennis, Alaska. Foster’s Liz Danvers and Reis’ Evangeline Navarro are two detectives who find themselves investigating the baffling disappearance of an eight-man team that ran the Tsalal Arctic Research Station. But there’s more to this case than meets the ice, and Danvers and Navarro may have dark secrets of their own.
Image used with permission by copyright holder In perhaps the biggest surprise of the day, Max revealed that a new The Big Bang Theory spinoff is in development. Or more accurately, Max described it as “a new comedy series derived from The Big Bang Theory ,” which is perhaps the most Sheldon thing to say. Series creator Chuck Lorre is developing the show exclusively for Max. That’s unexpected because The Big Bang Theory was a ratings juggernaut for CBS, and the first spinoff series, Young Sheldon , is also a success on the network. Max is the streaming home for the two previous shows from that comedy universe.
After scoring a critical hit in HBO Max’s Mare of Easttown , Kate Winslet is headlining a new project on Max called The Regime.
 The series is set inside a modern European royal regime as it begins to unravel over the course of a single year. The rest of the cast includes Matthias Schoenaerts, Guillaume Gallienne, Andrea Riseborough, Martha Plimpton, Hugh Grant, Danny Webb, David Bamber, Henry Goodman, Stanley Townsend, Louie Mynett, Rory Keenan, Karl Markovics, and Pippa Haywood. Will Tracy is writing and executive producing the series, but The Regime does not have a premiere date yet.
The final new trailer of the day was for Max’s upcoming six-part documentary Smartless: On the Road.
 It follows comedians Will Arnett, Jason Bateman, and Sean Hayes as they tour six American cities while recording live episodes of their podcast, Smartless.
 Special guests include Conan O’Brien, Will Ferrell, Matt Damon, Jimmy Kimmel, Kevin Hart, U.S. Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez (D-NY), and David Letterman.
Editors' Recommendations House of the Dragon season 2: Everything we know so far Where to watch all the Harry Potter movies How House of the Dragon saved Game of Thrones’ tarnished legacy The 10 most powerful Game of Thrones characters ever, ranked Hey, House of the Dragon fans: Stop hating Alicent Hightower Fantasy HBO Tech News Entertainment House of the Dragon cemented itself as one of the best shows currently streaming on HBO Max and aired on HBO with an explosive finale that finally began the Dance of the Dragons. After 10 episodes of development spanning 20+ years and multiple storylines, the show finally delivered on its promise of fire and blood and officially kickstarted the Dance following Lucerys Velaryon's death at the hands of his uncle, Aemond Targaryen. In a major departure from Fire & Blood, Lucerys' death was accidental, adding an additional dire element to an already tragic story.
With season 1 such a resounding success, hopes for season 2 are higher than ever. Before its premiere this fall, there was much arguing about whether House of the Dragon could restore Game of Thrones' tarnished legacy, and the show lived up to the task, delivering a compelling and thrilling season with stellar performances and incredible writing. Not every choice made by the showrunners was a hit with critics and audiences, but season 1 of House of the Dragon was an objective success. It drove the conversation every Sunday night, becoming the closest thing to appointment television we've had since Game of Thrones ended in 2019.
Entertainment The storm has finally broken, and it's time for the dragons to dance. Season one of House of the Dragon, one of the best shows currently streaming on HBO Max, reached its highly anticipated conclusion with an episode that delivered all the thrills fans expected. The season laid the groundwork for the Dance of the Dragons, the civil war of succession that divided the Targaryens and eventually ended in misery for everyone involved, not to mention the extinction of all dragons for the next two centuries. And after nine episodes of political intrigue, drama, scheming, and dragons, the pieces are in place, and the dance can officially begin.
The episode, titled "The Black Queen," centered entirely on the blacks; the previous episode, "The Green Council," revolved around the greens and their successful efforts to crown Aegon II as king of the Seven Kingdoms. Episode 10 begins with Rhaenyra receiving the news of her father's death from Rhaenys, who escaped King's Landing at the end of episode nine and flew straight to Dragonstone to warn her niece about the greens' plot. Rhaenyra goes into early labor, leaving Daemon to plan their next moves. The Rogue Prince quickly moves, despite Rhaenyra's orders that no decision should be made without her approval.
Entertainment It might be too early to think ahead to what HBO's House of the Dragon could potentially do beyond the story at hand and the event that it's building up to, but the rich history of House Targaryen is undoubtedly tempting countless longtime fans of George R. R. Martin's fantasy work to speculate about the exciting possibilities ahead. Some of that speculation is even more warranted, as co-showrunner Miguel Sapochnik told Entertainment Weekly in July that House of the Dragon could play around across the timeline of Targaryen lore.
The buildup of the war of succession the show is currently building to is known as the Dance of the Dragons, but the series' name is certainly convenient enough to go further forwards or backward while staying under the same umbrella. So, between the Targaryen histories documented and referenced in Martin's Fire & Blood -- its soon-to-be direct sequel -- and beyond, there certainly isn't a lack of source material to make House of the Dragon a unique long-running anthology series.
The Conquest Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
