Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix F1 Live Stream Stranger Things Season 5 Best New Movies Most Popular Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney+ UFC Live Stream Best Movies on Disney+ Home Entertainment Guides Wes Anderson’s Star Wars? All the AI Wes Anderson parodies, ranked By Jason Struss Close At this year’s Cannes Film Festival, Wes Anderson just debuted his newest movie, Asteroid City.
 The acclaimed movie looks to be a typical Anderson project populated with eccentric characters, an all-star cast featuring Tom Hanks and Scarlett Johansson, and whimsical visuals.
Asteroid City is sure to please audiences when it’s released later this year, but it will also help fuel the latest trend that’s sweeping the Internet: AI parodies.
7. Wes Anderson’s The Bible 6. Wes Anderson’s Game of Thrones 5. Wes Anderson’s Harry Potter 4. Wes Anderson’s Lord of the Rings/The Whimsical Fellowship 3. Wes Anderson’s 1980s Avengers 2. Wes Anderson’s Avatar/The Peculiar Pandora Expedition 1. Wes Anderson’s Star Wars/ The Galactic Menagerie With the rapid advancement of ChatGPT and AI-generating software like Midjourney, “regular folk” have taken these tools and applied their own creativity by utilizing the established works of artists such as Wes Anderson. The Anderson AI parodies are fun to look at but they also suggest a terrible trend of co-opting a director’s distinct visual style and making something seem new while really being a fancy rip-off. Nevertheless, we rank all of the Moonrise Kingdom director’s AI “tributes” and parodies, from the truly terrible to the surprisingly good.
Note: All these AI images were generated using Midjourney unless otherwise noted. We also tried to credit the artist who generated these images and distributed them on their social media channels when possible.
10 best action movie sidekicks ever, ranked The 10 best Star Wars action scenes, ranked All the canceled Star Wars movies 7. Wes Anderson’s The Bible Wes Anderson’s The Bible with Adam and Eve by KosmonautMikeDexter/Midjourney.
Image used with permission by copyright holder It should be a sin to combine two things that have nothing to do with one another, and Wes Anderson’s The Bible commits an even graver transgression against God and all things holy by being completely boring. Does anyone want to see a Jason Schwartzman-like figure as suave Adam next to Gwyneth Paltrow’s chic, dead-eyed Eve? Or Bill Murray as Moses? And if so, why would you? Wes Anderson’s The Bible by KosmonautMikeDexter/Midjourney.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Posted on Midjourney’s Reddit page by user KosmonautMikeDexter , Anderson’s The Bible isn’t as clever or inventive as it thinks it is. Jesus appears to be the same version we’ve seen in countless other movies and shows, while radical interpretations, like Owen Wilson’s hipster Noah, just fall flat. Call me a Puritan, but casting Anderson’s stock cast of actors as biblical figures and applying his style to such devastating events as the fall of Sodom and Gomorrah just seems wrong.
6. Wes Anderson’s Game of Thrones Image used with permission by copyright holder This parody, posted by nadel69 on Midjounrey’s Reddit page , fails simply because it’s not all that different from the original source material. A dour family posing for a portrait like The Tenenbaum clan in The Royal Tenenbaums isn’t too far off from the dour Starks in the later seasons of GoT. Aside from a few dashes of pastels here and there, these AI-generated images aren’t too far off from the real thing and aren’t that funny or imaginative.
5. Wes Anderson’s Harry Potter Wes Anderson’s Harry Potter by Panorama Channel/Midjourney.
Image used with permission by copyright holder The epitome of a lazy mash-up of two properties that should go together well, Panorama Channel ‘s Harry Potter by Wes Anderson AI images are severely limited by a lack of creativity or meaning behind the whole endeavor. All the characters you love from the Harry Potter universe, from Harry, Ron, and Hermione to Snape, Dumbledore, and Bellatrix Lestrange, are reimagined as … their exact film counterparts, except wearing the clothes of Wes Anderson characters from The Royal Tenenbaums and The Life Aquatic with Steve Zissou.
Professor Dumbledore by Panorma Channel/Midjourney Image used with permission by copyright holder The result is a parody that’s not funny and a reimagining without any imagination. The only good thing about it is that it provides solid proof that AI can never truly replace human creativity. AI is just a tool to showcase how much, or in this case, how little, ingenuity the person who wields that tool has.
4. Wes Anderson’s Lord of the Rings/The Whimsical Fellowship As created by content creator Curious Refuge (who has another Wes Anderson AI trailer on this list), Wes Anderson’s Lord of the Rings or, as Curious Refuge calls it, The Whimsical Fellowship , gets points for being spot-on in terms of knowing its source material. No mere lazy mash-up, The Whimsical Fellowship is successful at imprinting Anderson’s style onto several of Tolkien’s most famous inventions, including believably placing The Grand Budapest Hotel ‘s titular pink structure in Middle-earth and the genius casting choice of Willem Dafoe as Gollum. Bonus points for the intro of Timothée Chalamet as Frodo, who is so short, the camera has to tilt down to get him into full view.
Timothée Chalamet as Frodo in The Galactic Menagerie by Curious Refuge.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Yet combining Wes Anderson with J.R.R. Tolkien’s most famous creation doesn’t quite work as either a parody (intentional or unintentional) or a reimagining for me. As the former, The Whimsical Fellowship isn’t exaggerated enough to elicit much laughter or insight into either LotR or Anderson’s oeuvre beyond the usual moving targets (centered visual compositions, montages of seemingly mundane objects, etc.). As a remake, Lord of the Rings is already whimsical on its own, so applying Anderson’s twee aesthetic isn’t enough of a change for The Whimsical Fellowship to truly stand out.
3. Wes Anderson’s 1980s Avengers Image used with permission by copyright holder You’d think pairing Wes Anderson’s unique indie style with a populist franchise like The Avengers wouldn’t work, but these series of images created by Twitter user digiguru are surprisingly inventive and faithful to their comic book source. It’s actually a good thing they look nothing like their MCU counterparts as that probably would have left more room for error and bizarre likenesses being used on characters that don’t fit them. Can you imagine Bill Murray as Chris Hemsworth’s Thor? On second thought, don’t.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Even though the creator deems these images ’80s Avengers , they are far more faithful to the 1960s incarnation, bringing out the pop sensibility of original artist Jack Kirby. While it may seem ridiculous that Captain America and Ant-Man wear oversized helmets, that’s actually pretty faithful to the Silver Age incarnations. Iron Man’s tech looks period-accurate, and Ant-Man’s bizarre face actually works here to simulate physical human/ant mutation. Yes, the Hulk looks too plastic and immovable, and several faces are horrifically misshapen when they really shouldn’t be, but for what this is, ’80s Avengers is quite successful at utilizing Anderson’s aesthetic and making something charmingly retrograde.
Note: it’s unclear what AI generator the person used to create these images.
2. Wes Anderson’s Avatar/The Peculiar Pandora Expedition Despite producing two of the highest-grossing movies ever, the Avatar franchise doesn’t really have any distinct visuals or characters that make it stand out from all the other sci-fi worlds out there. That’s why Curious Refuge’s Wes Anderson Avatar parody, The Peculiar Pandora Expedition , works so well.
It’s one of the few parodies that improves the original source material by making the character designs funky and the world of Pandora more alien and interesting to explore. Applying Anderson’s usual cast to this Avatar , however, leaves a lot to be desired. No one really works (does anyone want to see Bill Murray in blue body paint?) except for, you guessed it, Willem Dafoe, who is cast as the movie’s heavy, Colonel Quaritch. The Inside and Spider-Man actor can play anything, it seems, and who am I to argue with that? 1. Wes Anderson’s Star Wars/ The Galactic Menagerie The best of the bunch, Wes Anderson’s Star Wars , or as the creator Curious Refuge calls it, The Galactic Menagerie, works as a pure parody, meaning it highlights the inherent absurdity of both the elements, the Star Wars franchise and Anderson’s body of work, and gently mocks them. What’s most surprising about this minute-long trailer is how these two seemingly disparate worlds actually fit pretty well together. Luke and Leia’s layered ’70s intergalactic outfits aren’t too far away from Margot Tenenbaum’s wardrobe in The Royal Tenenbaums or Peter Whitman’s Indian garb in The Darjeeling Limited.
 Even C-3P0 and The Mandalorian look largely the same, with some tweaks here and there that actually make them look a bit better than their inspirations.
Wes Anderson’s Darth Vader in The Galactic Menagerie by Curious Refuge.
Image used with permission by copyright holder What is most striking about this parody is how it reduces all of Star Wars’ fantastical trappings — its huge and lumbering ships, its imposing weapons, its sometimes bloated and overwrought narrative of fathers, sons, and faith — into toy-like objects, making them seem harmless, childlike, and playful. Whimsy is a word that’s often used as an insult, but here, I think it’s accurate as the best word of praise for something like this. It’s harmless fun, and when was the last time you could say that about a Star Wars project? Note: It’s not clear what process Curious Refuge used, but for more info about how they made their Wes Anderson AI trailers, you can visit their homepage.
Editors' Recommendations 7 worst sci-fi movie endings of all time The 10 best lightsaber duels in Star Wars, ranked The best female Star Wars characters, ranked The 10 best Wes Anderson characters, ranked All of Wes Anderson’s movies, ranked Artificial Intelligence Comic Book Movies Fantasy Marvel Sci-Fi Star Wars Entertainment A long time ago, in a galaxy not so far, far away, there was only the original Star Wars movie trilogy for the sci-fi saga's fans -- no prequels, sequels, television series, animated shows, or tie-in projects to keep excitement high between big-screen adventures.
That fantastic universe created by George Lucas has expanded in some big ways in recent years with spinoff films, TV shows (both animated and live-action), and new chapters of the cinematic series. Keeping track of what's on the horizon in the Star Wars universe can be a daunting task, so we've compiled a list of all the Star Wars movies and television series you can look forward to in the near future, beginning with the most recent news and announcements.
Entertainment Fans have been ranking the Star Wars movies and arguing about whose hierarchy is right -- and whose list is utterly wrong -- for as long as there's been a Star Wars franchise. There have been 11 big-screen features (and a few made-for-television movies) released so far, offering plenty of opportunities to revisit those rankings over the years. The trilogy-concluding 2019 film Star Wars: The Rise of Skywalker was the most recent installment to arrive in theaters, and it received the sort of mixed reviews that ensure every list will rank it differently.
Not to be left out, we put together our own worst-to-best ranking list for all of the live-action, big-screen Star Wars movies. Of course, we realize lists like this are subjective, and since only Siths deal in absolutes, there is going to be some disagreement about where each film lands -- but just remember, no matter where you place the films on the list, The Force will be with you ... always.
Entertainment Update 9/3: Since the original publication of this story, the TSA changed its tune and will now allow the bottles to count as an "oversized liquid," meaning they "should be put in checked baggage or emptied to be brought on as a carry-on item." Batuu travelers, be wary. The Transportation Security Administration (TSA) has banned the custom Coca-Cola bottles sold at Disney's new Star Wars-themed attraction, Star Wars: Galaxy's Edge, from all U.S. flights.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
