Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix F1 Live Stream Stranger Things Season 5 Best New Movies Most Popular Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney+ UFC Live Stream Best Movies on Disney+ Home Entertainment Features Liked Dungeons & Dragons? Then check out these movies By Joe Allen Close Now that Dungeons & Dragons: Honor Among Thieves is out and has turned out to be a bona fide hit, you may be looking for other movies in a similar vein that will thrill and surprise you.
Honor Among Thieves works so well in part because it clearly loves the role-playing game it’s based on, but it also doesn’t take itself or its fantasy world too seriously.
It strikes a careful balance that makes its world feel both fun and lived in, and these fantasy movies will hopefully scratch that same itch.
Labyrinth (1986) 102m Adventure, Family, Fantasy David Bowie, Jennifer Connelly, Toby Froud Jim Henson watch on Amazon watch on Amazon David Bowie had a fascinating film career, and Labyrinth was one of his most fascinating roles. It’s set in a fantasy world where a young girl finds her wish that her younger brother be taken away is granted. After her wish is granted, she has 13 hours to solve a labyrinth in order to reverse it.
The result is a surprisingly scary children’s film that also features many of the questing elements that Honor Among Thieves handles so well. The fantasy world is also wonderfully idiosyncratic and strange, and that’s in part thanks to Bowie’s singular presence.
Read less It’s Barbenheimer time: The best double feature movies like Barbie and Oppenheimer Like Transformers: Rise of the Beasts? Then check out these awesome action movies Like Freevee’s Jury Duty? Then watch these 5 TV shows and movies The Lord of the Rings (2001) 179m Adventure, Fantasy, Action Elijah Wood, Ian McKellen, Liv Tyler Peter Jackson watch on HBO Max watch on HBO Max Maybe the most obvious movies on this list, it’s nonetheless undeniable that much of the lore and world-building in the Dungeons and Dragons universe was part of Tolkien’s world first.
Honor Among Thieves is a lot lighter on its feet than Peter Jackson’s trilogy, but that doesn’t mean that The Lord of the Rings movies are at all humorless. Instead, they’re exactly the right combination of epic and endearing and have stood the test of time as one of the great fantasy trilogies ever brought to screen.
Read less Puss in Boots: The Last Wish (2022) 103m Animation, Adventure, Comedy, Family, Fantasy Antonio Banderas, Salma Hayek, Harvey Guillén Joel Crawford watch on Peacock watch on Peacock One of the more recent titles on this list, The Last Wish may be surprising to some who didn’t hear about the buzz this movie received at the end of 2022. Following Puss in Boots as he realizes he’s now living the last of his nine lives, The Last Wish is surprisingly heavy on questing, and it also features a solid amalgam of fairytale characters.
It’s also almost shockingly well animated and surprisingly light on its feet, a combination that serves it exceedingly well. It’s not as deep in the specific lore of Honor Among Thieves , but it does feature a merry band united by a common cause in an exciting fantasy world.
Read less The Black Cauldron (1985) 80m Animation, Adventure, Family Grant Bardsley, Susan Sheridan, John Byner Ted Berman, Richard Rich watch on Disney+ watch on Disney+ One of Disney’s more forgotten animated films, The Black Cauldron is also one of the darker animated movies the studio ever produced. The story follows a lowly peasant with dreams of becoming a knight.
After a pig who can see the future is kidnapped, the peasant unites with a princess and a sidekick to stop the movie’s dastardly villain from enacting his plan to unleash an army of the undead. The movie definitely isn’t perfect, but anyone looking for stories of epic quests will find that this Disney movie totally fits that bill.
Read less The Green Knight (2021) 130m Adventure, Drama, Fantasy Dev Patel, Alicia Vikander, Joel Edgerton David Lowery watch on YouTube watch on YouTube A much more unconventional fantasy film, The Green Knight is based on the stories of King Arthur, and follows Arthur’s headstrong nephew Gawain as he journeys to confront the titular green knight and face his own fears about mortality.
Despite its relatively small scale, The Green Knight features a number of stunning, often slightly surreal sequences, as well as a captivating central performance from Dev Patel. Although The Green Knight is not exactly a conventional tale, it’s one of the most interesting fantasy films of recent years.
Read less Editors' Recommendations Gran Turismo isn’t very good, but I want more movies like it What is it like to be on the missing Titanic tourism submarine? Watch this video to find out Like Fast X? Here are 5 more action movies just like it House of the Dragon season 2: Everything we know so far Like Guy Ritchie’s The Covenant? Here are 5 action movies you need to watch Fantasy Features Movie images and data from: Entertainment People these days tend to get the most insight into the environment by watching documentaries, which bring them closer to nature from the comfort of their living room couch. Thanks to some glorious and entertaining footage of the Earth's creatures and territories, accompanied by soft-speaking narrators, people attain a deeper understanding of the world they inhabit.
As the world celebrates Earth Day once again, people can show their reverence for Mother Earth by watching these the best nature documentaries of all time.
Life (2009) Entertainment Now that The Super Mario Bros. Movie has become a smash hit in theaters, it seems likely that Nintendo will give more of their video games big-budget movies. As one of the leading gaming companies for over 40 years, Nintendo has many beloved franchises brimming with content that can be made into riveting and entertaining blockbusters.
While there are many properties for them to choose from, the makers of Mario should focus on giving these five games their own cinematic adaptations.
Kid Icarus Entertainment Dungeons & Dragons: Honor Among Thieves is far better than it has any right to be. The film, which counts Chris Pine, Hugh Grant, and Michelle Rodriguez among its stars, is Hollywood’s latest attempt to profit off the popularity of the Dungeons & Dragons tabletop roleplaying game. The industry’s previous attempts to do so went famously poorly. Fortunately, Honor Among Thieves isn’t just a marked improvement on the previous Dungeons & Dragons movies, but it’s also a genuinely fun adventure film that has more heart in it than most other blockbusters that are released nowadays.
Part of the film’s charm is its lighthearted, straightforward comedic tone. From the moment it begins, Honor Among Thieves doesn’t take itself too seriously. While it features more than its fair share of exposition and world-building, too, the film doesn’t ever get too bogged down in setting up the “seriousness” of its fantasy world. Instead, Honor Among Thieves focuses all of its efforts on telling a fantasy adventure story that is, above all else, infectiously fun.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
