Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix F1 Live Stream Stranger Things Season 5 Best New Movies Most Popular Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney+ UFC Live Stream Best Movies on Disney+ Home Entertainment Features Dungeons & Dragons: Honor Among Thieves reveals what modern fantasy is missing By Alex Welch Close Dungeons & Dragons: Honor Among Thieves is far better than it has any right to be. The film, which counts Chris Pine, Hugh Grant, and Michelle Rodriguez among its stars, is Hollywood’s latest attempt to profit off the popularity of the Dungeons & Dragons tabletop roleplaying game. The industry’s previous attempts to do so went famously poorly. Fortunately, Honor Among Thieves isn’t just a marked improvement on the previous Dungeons & Dragons movies, but it’s also a genuinely fun adventure film that has more heart in it than most other blockbusters that are released nowadays.
Escaping the shadow of Game of Thrones Making fantasy fun again A new fellowship Part of the film’s charm is its lighthearted, straightforward comedic tone. From the moment it begins, Honor Among Thieves doesn’t take itself too seriously. While it features more than its fair share of exposition and world-building, too, the film doesn’t ever get too bogged down in setting up the “seriousness” of its fantasy world. Instead, Honor Among Thieves focuses all of its efforts on telling a fantasy adventure story that is, above all else, infectiously fun.
In doing so, the film reveals the one thing that’s been missing from so many of the live-action fantasy movies and TV shows that Hollywood has produced in recent years.
New Dungeons & Dragons: Honor Among Thieves preview enters a dangerous maze Why Lord of the Rings: The Rings of Power can’t be a Game of Thrones rip-off Escaping the shadow of Game of Thrones Aidan Monaghan/Paramount Pictures / Paramount Pictures When Game of Thrones originally came along in 2011, the series offered a kind of live-action fantasy story that viewers had never quite seen before. Its commitment to exploring a world rampant with sex, violence, and treachery made Thrones feel refreshing and engaging at the same time. Twelve years later, however, the series’ dark spin on the fantasy genre has begun to feel stale, and that’s largely due to all the subpar imitations that have followed it.
From The Witcher and The Sandman to even The Wheel of Time , TV viewers have been bombarded in recent years with fantasy TV shows that have tried to recapture the same kind of edgy darkness and occasional brutality that partly defined Game of Thrones.
 Even the first season of Prime Video’s The Lord of the Rings: The Rings of Power , which has moments of fantasy levity rarely found in many of its fellow contemporary fantasy TV titles, is often weighed down by its own grandiose sense of importance.
Dungeons & Dragons: Honor Among Thieves doesn’t boast the same self-importance as Rings of Power.
 That’s partly what makes it so great, too. The film doesn’t just exist in a completely different tonal space than many of its contemporaries, but it also highlights the elements of whimsy, fun, and camaraderie that once made the fantasy genre so appealing in the first place.
Making fantasy fun again Paramount Pictures Dungeons & Dragons: Honor Among Thieves is, to put it simply, a good time. The film is essentially structured like a heist movie, which gives its characters the chance to explore different parts of Honor Among Thieves ’ fantasy world while always moving closer and closer to their end goal. Along the way, the film’s characters cast more spells than they know what to do with, talk to reanimated corpses, fight a truly overweight dragon, participate in a deadly batch of arena games, and go head-to-head with a powerful red wizard. The film, in other words, doesn’t shy away from its fantasy elements.
Honor Among Thieves is practically overflowing with more magic spells and fantastic creatures than most fantasy TV shows of the past few years. By freeing itself of any obligation it might have had to overexplain every one of its magical moments, the film keeps the whimsy of its fantasy world alive and well. Even more importantly, the film focuses on the same theme that is at the center of many of the greatest fantasy series in history: the power of friendship.
A new fellowship Aidan Monaghan/Paramount Pictures / Paramount Pictures The Lord of the Rings and Harry Potter films feature plenty of dark moments, but part of what makes those movies so enduringly great is that they never forget the friendships at the center of their stories. Those films never lose sight of the fact that the love shared by the members of a found family has been a core ingredient of the fantasy genre since its inception. Unlike so many of the Game of Thrones rip-offs that have recently preceded it, Dungeons & Dragons: Honor Among Thieves doesn’t forget that, either.
Even if it doesn’t take itself seriously, the film clearly loves and believes in its characters. It takes the necessary time to not only establish the bonds that connect them but also challenge and deepen them. By the time Honor Among Thieves has come to an end, its core group of heroes has evolved into a genuinely lovable and interesting adventuring party. As a result, Dungeons & Dragons: Honor Among Thieves both honors one of the most important aspects of the tabletop game that inspired it and reminds viewers of what once made fantasy stories so compelling in the first place.
To put that another way: Not every fantasy story has to be about the blood and guts that are spilled or the sex that’s had along the way. Sometimes, they can be about the jokes that are told and the songs that are sung by a group of friends working toward a common goal.
Dungeons & Dragons: Honor Among Thieves is now playing in theaters.
Editors' Recommendations Dungeons & Dragons: Honor Among Thieves’ ending, explained Dungeons & Dragons: Honor Among Thieves cast on turning a bunch of misfits into heroes Dungeons & Dragons: Honor Among Thieves trailer debuts at SDCC 2022 Fantasy Features HBO Entertainment November has been a great month for movies at Netflix, with the premiere of David Fincher's The Killer, and recent box office hits like Insidious: The Red Door and Spider-Man: Across the Spider-Verse. This week, the new additions include The Impossible, a 2012 survival thriller that has already landed on the list of the 10 most popular movies on Netflix. For younger viewers, Minions is also heating up the charts despite the pending departure of the other films in the franchise at the end of the month.
There's only one holiday weekend left in November, so what's the best way to stay on top of everything new on Netflix? Why, we are, of course. Our list of the best movies on Netflix right now is updated every Friday, even on holiday weekends, so you can easily find something for every movie lover in your life.
Entertainment Summer is long over, and the fall season is in full swing. It's now late 2023, and just about everyone is subscribed to Netflix and Hulu. But would you be surprised if I told you one of the most underrated streaming services around is Tubi? The upstart streamer has tons of new and old TV shows from every decade and every genre imaginable. Want to watch the buzziest series that aired on Max? Tubi has it. Are you feeling nostalgic about that old movie or cartoon you used to watch as a kid in the '80s or '90s? Chances are, Tubi has it.
Tubi has so much content that it can be hard to choose which shows and films are worth your time. Digital Trends is here to help you sort out which ones are worth watching. Even though the streaming service is free, time is valuable, and no one wants to waste it watching subpar content.
Entertainment Rather than waiting for the Thanksgiving holiday weekend, Apple TV+ and Netflix dropped two of their biggest shows of the fall this week. Netflix's The Crown kicked off its sixth and final season with four new episodes, while the Apple TV+ Godzilla-adjacent series Monarch: Legacy of Monster, dropped its first two episodes this week, with new episodes arriving weekly thereafter. Also this week, Scott Pilgrim Takes Off hits Netflix, while Max gets in on the act this week by premiering the second season of Julia.
Netflix, Amazon Prime Video, Hulu, Max, Apple TV+, Disney+, Paramount+, and Peacock still have new shows coming for the rest of November, including a handful arriving next week. But if you've been thinking about cutting back on your streaming bill, then perhaps you should consider signing up for the ad-supported tiers. In the meantime, keep reading for our weekly roundup of the best new shows to stream.
When you're done here, check out the best new movies to stream this week, as well as the best shows on Netflix, best shows on Hulu, best shows on Amazon Prime Video, and best shows on Disney+.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
