Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Windows 12 GTA 5 Cheats Wordle Today iPhone 15 Deals Upcoming Movies Nintendo Switch 2 NYT Connections Today Google Pixel 8 Pro Review Home Gaming Deals Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Best Black Friday gaming headset deals on Logitech, Corsair, and more By Aaron Mamiit Close Digital Trends Gamers who have been planning to buy a gaming headset from Black Friday deals will be able to enjoy discounts on devices made by Logitech, Corsair, and many more — but you have to act fast because stocks may sell out quickly. Whether you just need a basic device to better enjoy the audio of your favorite games or a premium one that will give you the communications advantage when battling with your teammates in online multiplayer matches, there’s surely something for you out there. If you take advantage of the Black Friday PS5 deals or Black Friday Xbox Series S deals , you’ll definitely want a headset to chat with your buds. Of course, to help you find that perfect offer, we’ve gathered our top picks below, and if something catches your eye, proceed with the transaction as soon as possible, as the deal may end sooner than you think.
Best Black Friday Wired Gaming Headset Deals Best Black Friday Wireless Gaming Headset Deals Best Black Friday Wired Gaming Headset Deals Niels Broekhuijsen/Digital Trends / Digital Trends There are various reasons why gamers prefer wired gaming headsets, including their relatively lower prices compared to wireless gaming headsets and generally better audio quality because their cables support higher bandwidth with less interference. They’re also fantastic if you’ve grabbed one of the Black Friday Xbox Series X deals.
It’s highly recommended to stick to the tried-and-tested brands like Logitech, Corsair, and Razer though, so you’re sure that you’ll be getting a top-quality device. If you don’t mind having to deal with the cable that connects them to your console or PC, a wired gaming headset may be more appropriate for you. However, with some gamers also thinking the same way, there’s a chance that the stocks of the offers we’ve rounded up won’t be able to keep up with the demand.
HyperX Cloud Stinger — Logitech G335 — Razer Kraken — Sony InZone H3 — Corsair HS80 — Save on everything from laptops and tablets, to coffee makers and air purifiers, and a whole host of Apple tech like iPad, Apple Watch and even the latest M3 MacBooks, as well as smart home essentials like the Amazon Echo and smart bulbs.
Best Black Friday Wireless Gaming Headset Deals Alienware If you want to be able to move freely during your gaming sessions as you’re not tethered to a particular spot due to a cable, you should go for a wireless gaming headset. Wireless is definitely better if you scored one of the Black Friday Nintendo Switch deals due to the portable nature of the console.
While they’re limited by their battery life, most wireless gaming headsets can run for dozens of hours on a single charge, which should give you enough opportunities to recharge them when they’re not in use. You should still be looking at dependable brands to make sure that you’ll still get decent audio quality, at the very least, alongside helpful features such as noise cancellation.
Razer Nari Essential — Corsair HS55 — Razer BlackShark V2 Pro — Logitech G Pro X — Sony InZone H9 — Editors' Recommendations 75 best Amazon Black Friday deals on laptops, TVs, Apple, and more Best Lenovo laptop Black Friday deals: Chromebooks, gaming laptops, and more Walmart Black Friday deals: The best offers you can shop now PS5 Black Friday deals: consoles, games, and accessories Xbox Series X Black Friday deals: Consoles, games, and accessories Deals Amazon Gaming While the Xbox Series S got a bad reputation when it first came out, the last year or two have really shown where it shines. For those who have older TVs and monitors that run 1080p, the Xbox Series S is a budget-friendly way for folks to play the latest games. And sure, it might not be able to hit 4k and high resolutions, but so many console games are locked to 60hz and sometimes struggle with 4k graphics, so the Xbox Series S is doing quite well overall. Luckily, there are many great Black Friday deals you can grab for the Xbox Series S, especially if you're looking for a game or accessory. Chief among them Black Friday Series X deals, too.
Best Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Unfortunately, there aren't a lot of deals available for the Xbox Series S right now, which is surprising given how close we're getting to Black Friday and all the other deals we've been seeing. Even so, there is a deal where you can get Xbox Game Pass Ultimate for free, so that's worth picking up if you plan to buy the Xbox Series S. There are some more Black Friday PS5 deals out there if you're willing to switch consoles (or want both in your arsenal).
Gaming The Black Friday and Cyber Week deals have dropped, earlier than ever this year it seems. Retailers are ready to get this thing started, but that's good news for you -- all of us, really -- because the competition means we're going to see some fantastically-low prices this year. While everyone else is shopping the best Black Friday deals for TVs, computers, smart home goods, and more, some of us are on the lookout for great gaming console deals, specifically on the Nintendo Switch. If that's you, listen up, because we've scoured the shopping world for some truly amazing Nintendo Switch Black Friday deals, some you can even shop as early as today. We've found deals on the console itself, including bundles, popular games, and even some accessories. So, put down that gamepad, kick up your feet, and let's get ready to grind out some levels.
The best Nintendo Switch Black Friday deals Computing If you're planning to get a new gaming laptop or other gaming accessories, you should check out the Black Friday deals on Razer products. It's one of the most popular brands among gamers because of its high-performance and stylish devices, and for the shopping holiday, you can get them with huge discounts. You're going to have to hurry with your chosen purchases once you've decided what to buy though, because stocks for some of these bargains may already be running low. If you're not set on Razer, be sure to shop the rest of Black Friday laptop deals and Black Friday gaming laptop deals to compare prices.
Best Razer gaming laptop Black Friday deals Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
