Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix F1 Live Stream Stranger Things Season 5 Best New Movies Most Popular Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney+ UFC Live Stream Best Movies on Disney+ Home Entertainment Features Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? The Red Wedding at 10: How the groundbreaking episode changed Game of Thrones forever By David Caballero Close Image used with permission by copyright holder The so-called Golden Age of Television reached its undeniable zenith during the 2010s. Shows like Mad Men , Veep , Breaking Bad , and Stranger Things took TV to new and exciting levels of visual and narrative quality. However, no show had more influence or acclaim throughout the 2010s than Game of Thrones.
 The HBO juggernaut became synonymous with prestige television, delivering a perfect mix of political intrigue, high fantasy, and sex that became irresistible for critics and audiences.
Game of Thrones sends its regards The Red Wedding was Game of Thrones at its best Game of Thrones wasn’t an instant success; it was only in season 3 that the show became the must-see show on television. Two events helped the show achieve this elusive reputation. The first was Daenerys’ sacking of Astapor in the fourth episode, And Now His Watch Has Ended.
 The second is, of course, the Red Wedding. The episode it was featured in, The Rains of Castamere, changed the series’ course, altering the fate of multiple characters and radically shifting the power balance between the noble houses of Westeros. The groundbreaking episode showcased Game of Thrones operating at full strength, and, as a result, allowed audiences to truly understand what kind of show they were watching.
Game of Thrones sends its regards Image used with permission by copyright holder What is it about The Rains of Castamere that was so striking? Was it the savage violence displayed against the Stark army? The shocking betrayal from Walder Frey? The horror of watching a man stabbing a pregnant woman in the belly with gory detail? Or Michelle Fairley’s harrowing, soul-piercing scream that, reader, has not left my mind since I first heard it 10 years ago? The 10 most anticipated TV shows to look forward to in 2023 Star Wars’ distant past has potential for Game of Thrones-like drama Game of Thrones deserves to be a great video game like Elden Ring Yes, it’s all quite mortifying. Watching it live was a shocking experience, with many viewers unable to process the carnage.
 I remember sitting in front of my television, mouth agape, hands shaking, and heart racing, and I read the books beforehand! I knew what was coming, yet it didn’t matter. Witnessing the slaughter was utterly traumatizing, and the episode ranks among the few instances when the adaptation far surpasses the books. The cast played no small role in bringing this nightmare to life; Michelle Fairley, Oona Chaplin, and Richard Madden delivered three of Game of Thrones ‘ most powerful portrayals — devastating, deeply affecting performances that instantly entered the annals of television infamy.
However, what’s truly heartbreaking about The Rains of Castamere is its inevitability. Rewatching the episode, the season, and its two predecessors, it’s clear thatthe Red Wedding was always meant to be. Like Ned Stark’s death two seasons earlier, Tywin’s unceremonious demise in season 4, or Olenna’s grand exit in season 7, the Red Wedding made sense dramaturgically. It was the natural conclusion to Robb and Catelyn’s stories; every choice they made, every triumph, mistake, and doubt they experienced led them to the Twins on that fateful day. The Red Wedding was gut-wrenching. but didn’t feel out of place or unearned. On the contrary, it felt logical and earned.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Shock can only work if it feels unexpected, but plausible; anyone can kill anyone, but it will ring hollow if it comes out of nowhere.
Game of Thrones understood this for most of its run; thus, its shocking moments hit the bull’s-eye. Think of the show’s cheapest and most unsuccessful twists — Shereen’s death by fire, Littlefinger’s execution, or Daenerys’ descent into Targaryen madness in the show’s divisive series finale ; none feel satisfying because they weren’t earned. They came from a place of convenience, a way for the show to tie up loose ends or, in Shereen’s case, to shock for the sake of it. But Robb and Cat had sealed their fate long before Walder Frey turned his back on them.
The Rains of Castamere was Game of Thrones at its Game of Thrones -iest. Many fans and critics interpreted the Red Wedding as confirmation that no one was safe in this show. Yet, by then, we already knew that; no further clarification was needed. No, the Red Wedding was the show telling us there were no winners in the game. Every victory will come at the expense of something; characters will cross lines and lose their humanity in pursuit of a concept as vague and shifting as power. In Westeros, a king can rule over the largest territory and still fall prey to a few soldiers in well-concealed armor during a dinner party. Varys said it best: power is an illusion, “a shadow on the wall.” The Red Wedding is the defining event in Game of Thrones , the show’s thesis brought to life in horrifying detail. More importantly, it’s the ultimate proof that Westeros is beyond salvation. There’s no light at the end of the tunnel, no salvation for anyone, and no matter who sits on the Iron Throne, the Seven Kingdoms will remain lawless, brutal, and treacherous because men are lawless, brutal, and treacherous. At its core, A Song of Ice and Fire is a story about violence and how inherent it is to humans, and The Red Wedding echoes that sentiment. “Valar morghulis,” indeed.
The Red Wedding was Game of Thrones at its best Image used with permission by copyright holder Ten years later, The Rains of Castamere remains possibly the most unpredictable episode on television and the best hour in Game of Thrones.
 From a technical perspective, the episode is a master class in building tension before the ultimately brutal and heart-stopping climax. From an emotional perspective, The Rains of Castamere is a gut-wrenching hour that left viewers mentally drained and possibly dehydrated from the tears. From a narrative perspective, the episode is the pinnacle of storytelling and Game of Thrones ‘ magnum opus.
The Rains of Castamere encapsulates every major theme in the show: politics, betrayal, war, cruelty, power, and pain. A casual fan would watch it without context or understanding of the show’s complex lore and still understand what Game of Thrones is about.
It’s amazing and heartbreaking to think how far the show fell from the heights it reached in seasons 3 and 4. Still, Game of Thrones ‘ legacy seems restored — for now, anyway. After all, it takes a very special show to produce an episode like The Rains of Castamere.
 There’s no catharsis, no payoff, no silver lining to be found — viewers looking for revenge for the Stark’s deaths would have to wait four long years before seeing the Freys pay for their crimes.
In hindsight, The Rains of Castamere is the antithesis of what audiences look for in a typical television episode. It ends in a void, a feeling of emptiness that swallows the viewer whole, and doesn’t concern itself with entertaining, at least not in the traditional sense. On the contrary, it is purposefully ruthless, daring its audience to look away.
The Rains of Castamere is Game of Thrones ‘ ultimate gift to television, a bleak, gritty, daring, disruptive, and unforgiving once-in-a-lifetime event that viewers won’t likely experience again.
The Red Wedding , and all eight seasons of Game of Thrones , can be streamed on Max.
Editors' Recommendations With just a few episodes, writer Darin Morgan changed The X-Files forever 10 best The Big Bang Theory episodes, ranked How House of the Dragon saved Game of Thrones’ tarnished legacy The 10 most powerful Game of Thrones characters ever, ranked More Targaryen lore that House of the Dragon could explore Fantasy Features HBO Max Entertainment Though we're only two episodes into the new series, HBO's House of the Dragon has so far successfully captured the thrill of week-to-week dark fantasy epics, political drama, and overall excitement for the characters and world of Game of Thrones. A second season was already greenlit less than a week after the series premiere but with the recent bombshell of the Kit Harington/Jon Snow-led sequel series in development, it's worth revisiting the impact of the original show as well as its potential future.
Despite a final season that went off the rails, Jon Snow cemented his status as a pop culture fantasy icon and one of the most compelling characters in Thrones' main cast. As such, he's had a great spotlight in a handful of the series' best episodes.
Cripples, Bastards, and Broken Things (season 1, episode 4) Entertainment Even before Game of Thrones went off the air, there was rampant and wild speculation about which show might emerge that could replace it. Game of Thrones was, according to some, the end of an era where TV fans would all watch the same show and then spend the following week discussing the latest episode and speculating about what was to come. Recently, House of the Dragon has attempted to prove that Game of Thrones can be an heir to itself, but another show that has also entered the fray hopes to become something of a phenomenon.
Lord of the Rings: The Rings of Power has often been described as Amazon's version of Thrones. The company has invested enormous sums of money into the show, and it's set in a similar fantasy universe as Thrones, with flying creatures and human actors wearing bad white wigs. George R.R. Martin, the mind behind Game of Thrones, was a huge J.R. Tolkien fan, and wrote his own fantasy series essentially in response to Tolkien's totemic works. That's part of the reason why, whatever Rings of Power turns out to be, it has to be more than just a riff on Game of Thrones, even though its source material was created long before anybody sat on the Iron Throne.
Lord of the Rings and Game of Thrones are not the same thing Entertainment Game of Thrones was a revolution. The show once not-so-eloquently described as "tits and dragons" proved to be so much more, introducing a seemingly never-ending parade of compelling characters likely to die from one episode to the next. High production values and genuinely impressive CGI further contributed to the show skyrocketing into the apex of pop culture, but Thrones' secret weapon was always the writing.
Some battles are won with swords and spears, others with quills and ravens; Thrones knew that. Its action episodes were thrilling and massive -- from Stannis' invasion of King's Landing to the infamous Battle of the Bastards. However, most of the show's most iconic clashes were verbal; think of Littlefinger and Varys' snarky remarks to each other or Cersei and Tyrion's surprisingly honest conversations. Guided by George R. R. Martin's sprawling source material, Game of Thrones was a writer's dream. Enhanced by the delicious readings of a cast of icons at their prime, the dialogue in Westeros was a writer's dream come true. Thrones was the perfect combination of cleverness and wit mixed with political intrigue, high stakes, ambitious world-building, nonstop violence, and yes, "tits and dragons." Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
