Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix F1 Live Stream Stranger Things Season 5 Best New Movies Most Popular Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney+ UFC Live Stream Best Movies on Disney+ Home Entertainment Guides Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? 3 action movies on Prime Video you need to watch in October By Christine Persaud Close WB October is a month when you really need to hype yourself up. Not only do you need to mentally prepare for the upcoming holiday season, you also need to get ready for the colder weather to come. Relaxing at home with one of the best action movies on Prime Video can really get you pumped for the challenging and busy months to come.
Black Adam (2022) Brotherhood (2022) Jurassic World Dominion (2022) Here, we have put together 3 action movies on Prime Video you need to watch in October. You might have already seen a few, but they have great re-watch potential. And if you haven’t watched them yet, what are you waiting for? With these flicks streaming on Amazon Prime Video right now, it’s the perfect time to watch them before they’re gone.
Black Adam (2022) Dwayne “The Rock” Johnson is back on the big screen in this superhero film, playing the DC character released from captivity to help free the nation of Kahndaq from a crime syndicate. But he’ll meet plenty of challenges along the way, leading to lots of action sequences, epic fight scenes, and wonderful visual effects.
5 bad 2000s action movies that you still need to watch right now 3 dramas on Prime Video you need to watch in November 6 best TV shows you need to watch in December Black Adam , which serves as a spin-off to Shazam! , didn’t even break even at the box office, a surprise for Johnson, one of the highest-paid actors in the business. But if you’re a fan of the superhero space, and especially DC, it’s a movie to add to the list, if for no other reason than to see Johnson live out a passion project.
Stream Black Adam on Prime Video.
Brotherhood (2022) Your early life can shape you, but as people have shown time and time again, the path you follow, even in the face of adversity, is a choice. Sometimes, someone takes a positive path while others go down a darker road. In the case of Brotherhood , a Nigerian crime-action thriller, twin brothers spend their early years dealing with trauma and fighting on the streets of Lagos. As they get older, they begin to lead very different lives. Wale (Falz) becomes an officer for a police SWAT team while his brother Akin (Tobi Bakre) goes on to pursue a life of criminal behavior.
Their love and loyalty to one another are put to the ultimate test when the brothers become the hunter and the hunted, Wale desperate to save his brother and Akin desperately in need of saving.
Stream Brotherhood on Prime Video.
Jurassic World Dominion (2022) Cap off the Jurassic World trilogy with the last film and the sixth Jurassic Park movie overall. Sequel to Jurassic World: Fallen Kingdom and finalizing the story that began with 1993’s Jurassic Park , Chris Pratt, Bryce Dallas Howard, BD Wong, and Omar Sy return in a world where dinosaurs are living among the humans.
Jurassic World Dominion also marks the first time Laura Dern, Jeff Goldblum, and Sam Neill appear together since the original flick.
One of few films to receive the honor of grossing over a billion dollars worldwide, Jurassic World Dominion was not the best reviewed of the trilogy. But if you haven’t seen it yet, you’ll want to tie the series off with a nice bow, even binge it with the first two for a lazy movie night in.
Stream Jurassic World Dominion on Prime Video.
Editors' Recommendations 3 movies and TV shows like the hit Max series Julia you should watch right now The best movies on Amazon Prime Video (November 2023) 3 TV shows on Tubi you should watch in November 3 sci-fi movies on Paramount+ you need to watch in November 3 action movies on Netflix you need to watch in November Amazon Amazon Prime Video Streaming Services Entertainment Generally, we tend to give streamers the benefit of the doubt when it comes to their film libraries. But there's no getting around the fact that the science fiction selection on Peacock is awful. For every Back to the Future, there are dozens of low-budget schlock-fests like Atlantic Rim, Lord of the Elves, and Dino King. Those are all real movies on Peacock, but they aren't worth your time. And unfortunately, there's nothing new on Peacock in November in the popular genre.
With such a thin selection to work with, it can be truly challenging to find sci-fi flicks on Peacock that are worth watching. But after an exhaustive search, we've come up with the following three sci-fi movies on Peacock that you need to watch in November.
Freejack (1992) Entertainment Sci-fi films never go out of style. From Alien and Back to the Future to Dune and Blade Runner, sci-fi films continue to improve thanks to new technology. Many sci-fi films find a home on Netflix and wind up on the streamer's 10 most popular movies list. Films like Don't Look Up, The Adam Project, and Bird Box are 10 of the most popular English films on Netflix ever.
The Adam Project is one of our picks for sci-fi movies to watch in November. Other selections include the epic sequel to Godzilla: King of the Monsters, and a sci-fi thriller about a pilot's fight for survival against the dinosaurs.
Godzilla vs. Kong (2021) Entertainment Last month on Hulu was all about horror. But in November, the new titles on Hulu include three of the best sci-fi movies of the last decade or so. For fans of the genre, this is a special treat that shouldn't be missed.
This month, our picks include Tom Cruise in a film unlike any of his previous blockbusters, as well as a cult classic robots-versus-aliens movie, and the final installment of a cult-classic film trilogy. These are the three sci-fi movies on Hulu that you need to watch in November.
Edge of Tomorrow (2014) Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
