Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix F1 Live Stream Stranger Things Season 5 Best New Movies Most Popular Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney+ UFC Live Stream Best Movies on Disney+ Home Entertainment Guides Guillermo del Toro’s best films according to Rotten Tomatoes By Michael Green Close Image used with permission by copyright holder Guillermo del Toro is one of the most prolific contemporary filmmakers. Since he emerged in the early 1990s in his native Mexico, he has directed, produced, written, and even lent his voice to scores of films. The Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences has taken notice, nominating del Toro for six Oscars over his career (two of which he’s won), with his most recent nomination coming as producer of Nightmare Alley , which was nominated for Best Picture.
Perhaps more impressively, del Toro has received great acclaim for films in typically disreputable genres – creature features, ghost stories, fairy tales, and B-list superhero flicks ( Blade II , Hellboy ). But no matter the genre or the approach – highbrow or lowbrow – his vision and style have been recognized as among the most distinctive in cinema. Here are the best feature films Guillermo del Toro has directed, according to Rotten Tomatoes.
10.
Mimic (1997) – 64% Miramax Mimic was del Toro’s first English-language film after he gained notice on the arthouse circuit for his debut feature, Cronos (1993). The movie stars Mira Sorvino, whose work in light comedy (including Mighty Aphrodite, for which she won an Oscar) in no way foreshadowed her as an evolutionary biologist who is responsible for creating, then going to war against, human-sized bugs.
The 10 greatest Best Picture winners according to IMDb The critical consensus was that the movie was gross but not particularly scary or compelling. Though Mimic was not considered a success, it nevertheless shows del Toro working with visual and thematic preoccupations he would later evolve in more mature works.
9.
Crimson Peak (2015) – 72% Legendary Pictures A bloody, beautiful bore. Crimson Peaks stars Mia Wasikowska as a young American named Edith who marries a dashing Englishman (Tom Hiddleston) and returns to live with him and his sister (Jessica Chastain) at their ancestral family home in England. Once there, Edith uncovers a villainous plot and suspects that the house may be haunted.
Crimson Peak is lush and gorgeous and the actors, especially Chastain, are up for the Gothic histrionics, but it suffers from the one unforgivable sin of a haunted house picture: It’s not remotely frightening. The movie represented something of a creative nadir for del Toro, who must have thought so also, as he rebounded with the similarly visually dazzling – but far more emotionally involving – The Shape of Water two years later.
8.
Pacific Rim (2013) – 72% Legendary Pictures / Warner Bros. Pictures Del Toro’s foray into blockbuster science fiction pays homage to Japanese genres of kaiju , or giant monster movies (he is a lifelong fan of Godzilla ), and mecha , or stories about giant human-controlled robots such as Robotech or Voltron.
 True to form, Pacific Rim features humans building and piloting giant robots to fight giant monsters that emerge from the deep.
Critics praised the IMAX-worthy scope and the visual imagination, but were less taken with the plot. (Let’s face it, one is either a fan of such material or not, and the sophistication of the storytelling is not often a consideration.) Not surprisingly, the movie was more popular worldwide than in the United States (especially in China), and did well enough globally to spawn Pacific Rim: Uprising (2018), which del Toro did not direct, perhaps accounting for its subpar standing compared to the original.
7.
Nightmare Alley (2021) – 80% Searchlight Pictures Despite its 2022 Best Picture Oscar nomination, critics found the neo-noir remake of the 1947 Tyrone Power-starring original more visually striking then narratively compelling. The Academy agreed, nominating the film in the Cinematography, Production Design, and Costume categories, but not for screenwriting or directing. Del Toro’s version features Bradley Cooper as a carnival worker who partners with a fellow carney (Rooney Mara) to take their talents as “psychics” to the big city, only for him to discover that a shrink with connections to powerful people (Cate Blanchett in full-on femme fatale mode) is a better fit for his warped ambitions.
While the story may proceed in fits and starts, the performances are memorable, and del Toro reunites with cinematographer Dan Laustsen ( The Shape of Water , Crimson Peak ) to create a visual world that is as sumptuous as it is unsettling. The last scene in particular is a standout, as the final toll of Cooper’s con man schemes are fully revealed to shattering effect.
6.
Hellboy (2004) – 81% Columbia Pictures The director returned to superhero filmmaking several years after Blade II , but with a vision that was more distinctively his own. Based on the popular Dark Horse Comics graphic novel by Mike Mignola, the movie is a typical origin story, dramatizing the birth of the hero and the formation of his team, which includes a psychic fishman creature (voiced by Frasier ‘s David Hyde Pierce) and a firestarter (Selma Blair) for whom the adult Hellboy (Ron Perlman) kindles a, well, spark.
The movie finds Hellboy fighting Nazis as any good superhero should, as well as facing choices about whether he will use his powers for good or ill. Critics and audiences appreciated the film’s wit and visuals. as well as Ron Perlman’s charismatic, wisecracking presence as the titular hero.
5.
Hellboy II: The Golden Army (2008) – 86% Universal Pictures The expensive follow up to the 2004 original, Hellboy II is little more than an excuse to parade as many del-Toro-esque creatures as possible across the screen, including a giant city-destroying plant monster that, once vanquished, sprouts into an enchanted garden that covers downtown. Critics and viewers appreciated these sorts of imaginative details, even if the plot — an ancient elf prince (Luke Goss) tries to take over the world by activating a long dormant army of mechanized soldiers — feels derivative.
In fact, the details of the story world are so reminiscent of The Lord of the Rings that it’s a little amazing the Tolkien estate didn’t get involved. (It’s easy to see from this movie why del Toro was originally hired to direct The Hobbit before he dropped out and Peter Jackson replaced him.) The movie is stuffed with so many characters that Hellboy (Ron Perlman returning in the title role) is all but reduced to a supporting part in his own sequel.
4.
Cronos (1993) – 89% Ventana Films The director’s first feature after a decade of making short films and working as a makeup effects artist tells the story of an antiques dealer (Federico Luppi) living in Veracruz, Mexico, who finds an ancient artifact that transforms him into a vampire. This brings him into conflict with an evil dying businessman who has been searching for the device for years, hoping to regenerate his youth.
Though the film was not widely distributed in the United States, critics nonetheless praised the self-assured and stylish filmmaking and hailed del Toro as a fresh filmmaking voice. The movie also marked del Toro’s first collaboration with Ron Perlman, who would go on to appear in many of his films.
3. (TIE) The Devil’s Backbone (2001) – 92% Canal+ España The Devil’s Backbone represents del Toro’s first exploration of the Spanish Civil War, the horrors of which had captured his imagination. The movie opens with 12-year-old Carlos (Fernando Tielve) arriving at an orphanage in the Spanish countryside. Negotiating bullies and avoiding the cruel caretaker (Eduardo Noriega) is the least of his problems, as he quickly discovers the ghost of a young boy (Junio Valverde) haunting the place. Meanwhile, the fighting spreads across the country to reach their remote mission. Del Toro combines the supernatural with the political to show the evils of war, especially as they affect children.
The Devil’s Backbone contains much of the raw material del Toro would reshape in Pan’s Labyrinth, though the texture of this film is much different, as are genre influences such as the Western. Tans and dusty browns predominate the color palette and men with guns stare out of windows onto the flat landscapes waiting to kill those who would threaten home and kin. It’s an unforgettable film worthy of being rediscovered.
2. (TIE) The Shape of Water (2017) – 92% A love story for the ages as only del Toro could tell it – between a woman and a fishman being held at a secret government lab. The seeds can be found in Hellboy 2 , in which Abe Sapien falls for an elf princess (Doug Jones plays the fishman in both movies). The seeds were alleged to be found elsewhere too, as del Toro was accused of plagiarism on this one. This sort of misses the point, though, as a close overview of del Toro’s oeuvre shows him reworking the same materials again and again until he massages them into magic.
In this way, much of his work can feel familiar. But he alchemizes lead into gold in The Shape of Water and won Oscars for Best Picture and Best Director for his efforts. As usual, the photography and production design are stunning. But this movie achieves transcendence through its performances. Sally Hawkins, Richard Jenkins, Michael Shannon, and Octavia Spencer bring this dark fantasy to vivid, emotional life.
1.
Pan’s Labyrinth (2006) – 95% Fox Searchlight The director had shown great flair in his early genre pictures, finding admirers even in critical failures such as Mimic and Blade II (2002). And his early Spanish-language productions were well-regarded. But Pan’s Labyrinth represented a quantum leap in artistic expression. Returning to the fertile material of the Spanish Civil War that had yielded The Devil’s Backbone , del Toro created a genre hybrid of fantasy, horror, and war, seen mostly through the eyes of a the 11-year-old Ofelia.
In the movie, Ofelia travels with her mother and her new stepfather, Captain Vidal, to an outpost where Vidal brutally represses the rebels fighting against the new Francoist regime. To escape her increasingly harrowing situation, Ofelia embraces a fantasy world populated with exotic creatures. The movie blends potentially discordant tones – the fantasy sequences alongside the realism of the violence — as well as any film ever has, leading to a truly heartbreaking climax.
Pan’s Labyrinth stands as one of the great films of the early 21st century and should be seen by anyone who appreciates a terrific story told with intelligence and compassion.
Editors' Recommendations The best Stephen King adaptations ranked by Rotten Tomatoes Best Products Oscars Entertainment November has been a great month for movies at Netflix, with the premiere of David Fincher's The Killer, and recent box office hits like Insidious: The Red Door and Spider-Man: Across the Spider-Verse. This week, the new additions include The Impossible, a 2012 survival thriller that has already landed on the list of the 10 most popular movies on Netflix. For younger viewers, Minions is also heating up the charts despite the pending departure of the other films in the franchise at the end of the month.
There's only one holiday weekend left in November, so what's the best way to stay on top of everything new on Netflix? Why, we are, of course. Our list of the best movies on Netflix right now is updated every Friday, even on holiday weekends, so you can easily find something for every movie lover in your life.
Entertainment Summer is long over, and the fall season is in full swing. It's now late 2023, and just about everyone is subscribed to Netflix and Hulu. But would you be surprised if I told you one of the most underrated streaming services around is Tubi? The upstart streamer has tons of new and old TV shows from every decade and every genre imaginable. Want to watch the buzziest series that aired on Max? Tubi has it. Are you feeling nostalgic about that old movie or cartoon you used to watch as a kid in the '80s or '90s? Chances are, Tubi has it.
Tubi has so much content that it can be hard to choose which shows and films are worth your time. Digital Trends is here to help you sort out which ones are worth watching. Even though the streaming service is free, time is valuable, and no one wants to waste it watching subpar content.
Entertainment Rather than waiting for the Thanksgiving holiday weekend, Apple TV+ and Netflix dropped two of their biggest shows of the fall this week. Netflix's The Crown kicked off its sixth and final season with four new episodes, while the Apple TV+ Godzilla-adjacent series Monarch: Legacy of Monster, dropped its first two episodes this week, with new episodes arriving weekly thereafter. Also this week, Scott Pilgrim Takes Off hits Netflix, while Max gets in on the act this week by premiering the second season of Julia.
Netflix, Amazon Prime Video, Hulu, Max, Apple TV+, Disney+, Paramount+, and Peacock still have new shows coming for the rest of November, including a handful arriving next week. But if you've been thinking about cutting back on your streaming bill, then perhaps you should consider signing up for the ad-supported tiers. In the meantime, keep reading for our weekly roundup of the best new shows to stream.
When you're done here, check out the best new movies to stream this week, as well as the best shows on Netflix, best shows on Hulu, best shows on Amazon Prime Video, and best shows on Disney+.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
