Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix F1 Live Stream Stranger Things Season 5 Best New Movies Most Popular Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney+ UFC Live Stream Best Movies on Disney+ Home Entertainment Guides Deadpool 3: Everything we know so far about the MCU’s latest franchise By Joe Allen Close After more than five years away from the big screen, the Merc with the Mouth is on his way back to theaters. Deadpool is now a proper part of the Marvel Cinematic Universe, and Ryan Reynolds has been hard at work teasing what the third installment in his highly successful franchise will look like.
There’s no official Deadpool 3 trailer yet How is Logan back? Is this movie set in the MCU? When are we going to see Deadpool 3? Will Deadpool 3 be rated R? Who is directing Deadpool 3? Deadpool 3 is still at least a year away, but we already know plenty about the movie, including when it’s expected to hit theaters and who will be in the cast.
There’s no official Deadpool 3 trailer yet Ryan Reynolds has provided several updates on the progress around Deadpool 3 on his YouTube channel, but no trailer for the film has been released yet. Filming is expected to start sometime this year, so it’ll be a while before we get an official look at the movie. Reynolds also posted a follow-up video featuring Hugh Jackman, who is returning as Wolverine for this movie even though he died in 2017’s Logan.
 The video doesn’t exactly explain how Logan is back, but it does have a fairly solid joke.
Want to know why the MCU stinks lately? We’ll tell you Everything we know about Avengers: Secret Wars All the upcoming MCU movies we know about How is Logan back? Is this movie set in the MCU? Logan’s return is still a bit of a mystery, although it seems like Deadpool 3 will be taking a similar angle to Spider-Man: No Way Home in terms of explaining how it will bridge its many universes. Deadpool may simply jump through a portal and find himself interacting with the rest of the Marvel characters we know and love, and he may also find a universe where Wolverine is still alive and kicking, even though he died in Logan.
 When you have a multiverse, anything is suddenly possible.
When are we going to see Deadpool 3? 20th Century Fox Given that the movie hasn’t even started filming yet, it’s going to be a little while before we actually get to see Deadpool 3.
 The date on the calendar at the moment is November 8, 2024, although we’re likely all aware that Marvel release dates are always in flux and subject to change. If this movie or other movies are delayed, it could shift the entire release schedule, and may even push Deadpool 3 into 2025. Given the enormous success of the first two Deadpool films, the film seems likely to receive an exclusive theatrical release before it hits streaming.
Will Deadpool 3 be rated R? 20th Century Studios Given that Deadpool will now be a part of the much more family-friendly MCU, many are naturally wondering whether the movie will maintain the streak of the first two films and retain its R rating. Disney CEO Bob Iger and Marvel head Kevin Feige have both said repeatedly that the film will have an R-rating, which allows for both a higher level of graphic violence and plenty of profanity.
Who is directing Deadpool 3? Image used with permission by copyright holder While the first two installments in the franchise were directed by Tim Miller and David Leitch, the third installment will be helmed by Shawn Levy, who has already worked with Reynolds on projects like Free Guy and The Adam Project.
 In an interview with Collider , Shawn discussed working on the project, suggesting that the film would be oriented toward an adult audience.
“We are writing, rewriting, developing, prepping ‘ Deadpool’ every day now,” he said. “It is such a blast to laugh every day. It is so delicious to hear and write and come up with these scenes where people are just talking foul. And the violence is in your face and hardcore, and it’s very much a ‘ Deadpool’ movie. And it has Logan in it. And it has Wolverine in it. It’s too fun. I’m having so much fun, and I haven’t even hit the shooting floor yet. […] I have to say, developing a ‘ Deadpool’ movie is one of the most fun creative experiences of my life because it’s not just that it’s rated R. It’s that it’s so filled with self-awareness, and that makes in-writing very, very fun in a way that is unique to that franchise.” Editors' Recommendations Squid Game: The Challenge: Release date, channel, trailer, and everything we know so far 7 interesting facts about the MCU series Secret Invasion Everything we know so far about Arcane season 2 Stranger Things season 5: Everything we know so far Squid Game season 2: Everything we know so far Comic Book Movies Marvel Entertainment In 2017, Hugh Jackman hung up his adamantium claws and retired from the role of Wolverine after a moving performance in Logan. But old X-Men never stay dead forever. Earlier today, Ryan Reynolds posted a video in which he apologized to fans for the lack of Deadpool 3 news at D23 Expo. But he made up for it by facetiously confessing to having no idea what to do for the third movie ... except to bring Jackman back as Wolverine.
https://twitter.com/VancityReynolds/status/1574865217141481477 Audio / Video ATSC 3.0 (also referred to as NextGen TV) is the future of over-the-air (OTA) TV, combining existing antenna technologies with internet-powered tools to deliver the next generation of digital broadcasting.
ATSC 3.0 upgrades our existing antenna TV system by establishing a new technical framework for how those TV signals are created, broadcast, and received. It supports higher resolutions like 4K and possibly 8K, along with much better sound. There's even the potential for ATSC 3.0 to replace some uses of mobile data, especially within the automotive world. Here's everything you need to know about ATSC 3.0.
What is ATSC 3.0? Entertainment It's official: Deadpool 3 finally has a director. According to The Hollywood Reporter, Free Guy helmer Shawn Levy is in talks to reunite with Ryan Reynolds for the new Deadpool sequel.
Levy and Reynolds have previously collaborated on both Free Guy and Netflix's The Adam Project, which was released today. And there's more good news for fans of the first two Deadpool movies: Original screenwriters Rhett Reese and Paul Wernick are now back on Deadpool 3. They are replacing Bob's Burgers scribes Wendy Molyneux and Lizzie Molyneux-Logelin, who wrote the previous draft of Deadpool 3.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
