Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix F1 Live Stream Stranger Things Season 5 Best New Movies Most Popular Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney+ UFC Live Stream Best Movies on Disney+ Home Entertainment Guides Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? 5 bad ‘90s action movies that you still need to watch By Blair Marnell Close The ’90s were all about action at the box office. And it’s not an exaggeration to say that several of the top action movies of the ’90s rank among the best in the genre. But there are far more bad ’90s action movies than there are good ones.
Speed 2: Cruise Control (1997) Double Impact (1991) The Long Kiss Goodnight (1996) Hudson Hawk (1991) Passenger 57 (1992) Instead of running down the truly forgettable flicks from that decade, we’re throwing the spotlight on five bad ’90s action movies that you still need to watch. Each of the five films below has at least one or more redeeming factors. But not every one of these movies is readily available on the major streamers. So you’ll have to rent or buy them if you want to see them all.
Speed 2: Cruise Control (1997) 20th Century Studios Sandra Bullock has gone on the record about regretting her return for Speed 2: Cruise Control , which her co-star from the first film, Keanu Reeves, successfully avoided. To replace Reeves’ Jack Traven, the sequel introduces Officer Alex Shaw (Jason Patric) as Annie’s new boyfriend. The script wastes little time getting the new couple on a cruise ship that is unknowingly sailing into danger.
3 action movies on Paramount+ you need to watch in November 3 Netflix action movies like Meg 2 you need to watch right now 5 action movies you need to watch this summer What makes this film watchable is the absolutely unhinged performance of Willem Dafoe ( Inside ) as John Geiger, the deranged man who seizes remote control of the ship. Nobody portrays a crazy villain quite like Dafoe. The film’s climatic stunt is also very impressive, even if the rest of the movie plays like Speed -lite.
Watch Speed 2: Cruise Control on Starz.
Double Impact (1991) Columbia Pictures Double the Van Damme, double the action. That was probably the rationale behind Double Impact , the movie that cast Jean-Claude Van Damme as twin brothers, Alex and Chad Wagner. Decades ago, Alex and Chad’s parents were murdered by Triad assassins, and the boys were raised separately. In the present, the brothers’ reunion isn’t a happy occasion, and they don’t see eye-to-eye.
Alex is particularly angry that Chad seems to have an eye for his girlfriend, Danielle Wilde (Alonna Shaw). But their mentor, Frank Avery (Geoffrey Lewis), tries to keep the twins on task so they can take down Nigel Griffith (Alan Scarfe), the man who ordered the deaths of their parents. This movie hits all of the same notes as Van Damme’s previous action flicks, and several that came after. Yet there’s nothing quite like watching Van Damme trying to create two separate personas for the brothers. It’s worth watching for that alone.
Watch Double Impact on Max.
The Long Kiss Goodnight (1996) New Line Cinema For a bad action movie, The Long Kiss Goodnight is actually pretty good. Critics were divided on the second attempt to make Geena Davis into an action star. The first attempt, Cutthroat Island , is a hilarious blunder on all levels. But The Long Kiss Goodnight actually has redeeming qualities, especially because it pairs Davis with Samuel L. Jackson.
Davis plays Samantha Caine, a woman who lost her memories eight years ago. To reclaim her identity, Samantha hired private investigator Mitch Henessey (Jackson) to help her find answers. However, neither of them is prepared when they discover that Samantha was once Charlene “Charly” Elizabeth Baltimore, a top assassin for the CIA. And now that Charly has been found, several of her old enemies want her dead.
Rent or buy The Long Kiss Goodnight on Google Play , Prime Video , YouTube , and Apple TV+.
Hudson Hawk (1991) TriStar Early in his action career, it seemed like Bruce Willis could do no wrong. And then Hudson Hawk came along. Although the movie is better than Willis’ long string of awful low-budget direct-to-video films, it’s pretty far from a good movie. Within the film, Willis plays Eddie “Hudson Hawk” Hawkins, a recently paroled art thief who wants to take some time for himself. Unfortunately, Eddie quickly gets blackmailed into revisiting his life of crime.
The plot of the film is absolutely ludicrous, and it even features Andie MacDowell as Anna Baragli, a secret operative for the Vatican. Check this one out for an absolutely bonkers evil plan including the works of Leonardo Da Vinci. If you’ve ever seen the TV series Alias , J.J. Abrams may have lifted the Da Vinci storyline from this movie to that series.
Rent or buy Hudson Hawk on Google Play , Prime Video , YouTube , and Apple TV+.
Passenger 57 (1992) Warner Bros. Pictures Years before he was Blade, Wesley Snipes was the title character of Passenger 57.
 This was still early in Hollywood’s “ Die Hard in a ….” phase, so it may be one of the first Die Hard knockoffs to take place on a plane. Snipes plays Chief John Cutter, an airline security expert who just happens to be on the same flight as the FBI and their prisoner, Charles Rane (Bruce Payne).
Rane is several steps ahead of his captors, and he quickly engineers a mid-flight hijacking with his followers, including Sabrina Ritchie (Elizabeth Hurley). It falls to Cutter to stop Rane from escaping, even though his only ally on the plane is a flight attendant, Marti Slayton (Alex Datcher), whom he previously trained. Critics savaged Passenger 57 , but this was the beginning of Snipes’ reign as an action star. If nothing else, that makes it significant. Payne is also quite good as Rane, as he plays the psycho villain to perfection.
Rent or buy Passenger 57 on Google Play , Prime Video , YouTube , and Apple TV+.
Editors' Recommendations 5 bad 2000s action movies that you still need to watch right now 5 Tom Cruise movies you need to watch in August 5 great killer shark movies like The Meg 2 you need to watch High on Life includes a full ’90s cult movie that you can watch in-game Entertainment November has been a great month for movies at Netflix, with the premiere of David Fincher's The Killer, and recent box office hits like Insidious: The Red Door and Spider-Man: Across the Spider-Verse. This week, the new additions include The Impossible, a 2012 survival thriller that has already landed on the list of the 10 most popular movies on Netflix. For younger viewers, Minions is also heating up the charts despite the pending departure of the other films in the franchise at the end of the month.
There's only one holiday weekend left in November, so what's the best way to stay on top of everything new on Netflix? Why, we are, of course. Our list of the best movies on Netflix right now is updated every Friday, even on holiday weekends, so you can easily find something for every movie lover in your life.
Entertainment Summer is long over, and the fall season is in full swing. It's now late 2023, and just about everyone is subscribed to Netflix and Hulu. But would you be surprised if I told you one of the most underrated streaming services around is Tubi? The upstart streamer has tons of new and old TV shows from every decade and every genre imaginable. Want to watch the buzziest series that aired on Max? Tubi has it. Are you feeling nostalgic about that old movie or cartoon you used to watch as a kid in the '80s or '90s? Chances are, Tubi has it.
Tubi has so much content that it can be hard to choose which shows and films are worth your time. Digital Trends is here to help you sort out which ones are worth watching. Even though the streaming service is free, time is valuable, and no one wants to waste it watching subpar content.
Entertainment Rather than waiting for the Thanksgiving holiday weekend, Apple TV+ and Netflix dropped two of their biggest shows of the fall this week. Netflix's The Crown kicked off its sixth and final season with four new episodes, while the Apple TV+ Godzilla-adjacent series Monarch: Legacy of Monster, dropped its first two episodes this week, with new episodes arriving weekly thereafter. Also this week, Scott Pilgrim Takes Off hits Netflix, while Max gets in on the act this week by premiering the second season of Julia.
Netflix, Amazon Prime Video, Hulu, Max, Apple TV+, Disney+, Paramount+, and Peacock still have new shows coming for the rest of November, including a handful arriving next week. But if you've been thinking about cutting back on your streaming bill, then perhaps you should consider signing up for the ad-supported tiers. In the meantime, keep reading for our weekly roundup of the best new shows to stream.
When you're done here, check out the best new movies to stream this week, as well as the best shows on Netflix, best shows on Hulu, best shows on Amazon Prime Video, and best shows on Disney+.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
