Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Windows 12 GTA 5 Cheats Wordle Today iPhone 15 Deals Upcoming Movies Nintendo Switch 2 NYT Connections Today Google Pixel 8 Pro Review Home Gaming Guides Best Perk-a-Colas in Modern Warfare 3 zombies, ranked By Jesse Lennox Close Ever since perks were introduced to the series, they’ve been a staple in every game mode in Call of Duty.
For Call of Duty: Modern Warfare 3 , you can obviously pick your perks during multiplayer , but not so in Zombies. This mode has always made perks work slightly differently, using different names, but similar mechanics. This time around, the Perk-a-Colas have returned, and these cans of refreshing soda just so happen to give your character a massive improvement. You can grab one from a vending machine on the map in exchange for your points, but they don’t come cheap. Since these perks last you the rest of the match (or until used for some of them), you will want to choose your flavor wisely. These are all nine Perk-a-Colas in Call of Duty: Modern Warfare 3 ranked from best to worst.
Jugger-Nog Quick Revive Stamin-Up Speed Cola Tombstone Soda PHD Flopper Death Perception Elemental Pop Deadshot Daiquiri It is important to note that the location where each perk machine spawns on the new Zombies map is random for every match. There’s no way to know where any specific perk will be, but you can see where perk machines spawn on your map as indicated by a downward pointing arrow.
Activision Jugger-Nog Activision You know it, you love it, and we’re all glad it’s back. If you’re new to Zombies mode, Jugger-Nog has been one of the most popular perks since its inception and is borderline required if you want to survive into the later rounds. Simply put, this perk gives you a permanent boost to your maximum health. While Call of Duty: Modern Warfare 3 doesn’t have a round-based structure anymore, the addition of other enemy players only makes having a higher health pool even more essential.
Quick Revive Quick Revive pairs perfectly with Jugger-Nog. This perk has two benefits, the first being that you will start regenerating your HP 50% faster with it equipped, and the second is that you revive any fallen allies 50% faster. Again, both of these are invaluable when you find yourself cornered, pinned down, or needing to save a teammate before zombies or an enemy team closes in.
The best field upgrades for Modern Warfare 3 Zombies Modern Warfare 3 Zombies: Mercenary Convoy guide Is Call of Duty: Modern Warfare 3 cross-platform? Stamin-Up Zombies are traditionally slow creatures, but they can move at a decent pace in Call of Duty: Modern Warfare 3.
 While you can always outrun them, it’s their numbers and tendency to close in from multiple angles that leads to you getting caught. Stamin-Up makes your run and sprint faster to evade getting flanked. This perk is even more useful now than in prior games since you’ll be playing on a large, open map with tons of ground to cover to collect loot. The less time you spend in the open, the less likely you are to get ganked by another team.
Speed Cola This probably sounds like what Stamin-Up would do, but in reality, it isn’t quite as good. The speed boost you’re getting from this perk is only related to how fast you reload and replace your armor plates. Depending on the gun, a faster reload is nice, and it never hurts to be able to restore your armor a bit faster, but fights are usually won or lost before these things become major factors.
Tombstone Soda This is a new addition to the perk family that only makes sense in the new format Zombies has taken. This cola doesn’t give your character any buffs or abilities to use during the match, but instead makes it so that your character will create a tombstone stash in whatever location you die. If you go find that same stash in your next run at Zombies, you can recover your backpack with whatever was inside at the time you died in the last round to sort of pick up where you left off. This is an alright perk, but if you can avoid death by purchasing a perk that gives you an immediate advantage, it is somewhat unnecessary. Save this one for when you’re uncertain about how a run is going to play out.
PHD Flopper As cool as creating explosions when you go prone sounds, it isn’t going to save you as often as you think. PHD Flopper’s best trait is that it makes you immune to fall damage if you’re diving, as well as any area of effect (AoE) damage you yourself cause, but the ability to make explosions that are more powerful the higher your fall isn’t something you’ll use much. It will be even less often that it makes a difference in a fight. Still, it’s kind of cool, especially if you dolphin dive a lot.
Death Perception Getting to the lower end of things, Death Perception just makes it so you can more easily spot hidden enemies, resources, chests, and item drops. It’s fine on paper, but if you’re observant enough, it isn’t worth the points.
Elemental Pop Who likes RNG perks? Elemental Pop is a lot to invest in for a random chance that your next shot will apply one random ammo mod effect. Sure, if you’ve got a machine gun with a massive clip and high rate of fire, you can get it to trigger often. But considering you never know when or how it will work, it isn’t worth relying on.
Deadshot Daiquiri And dead last is the Deadshot Daiquiri. While the name sounds delicious, the effect is rather bland. This perk makes it so when you aim down sights, the auto-aim will pull you toward enemy critical points, plus make crit damage do more. This might be decent for new players, but vets should have their aim on lock and will only find the auto-targeting annoying.
Editors' Recommendations The best Call of Duty games, ranked How to fix packet burst in Modern Warfare 3 Modern Warfare 3 Zombies: tips and tricks for MWZ How to rank up fast in Modern Warfare 3: best ways to farm XP Modern Warfare 3 preload guide: release time, file size, and preorder Gaming There are many different types of missions in Payday 3, but your overall goal remains consistent: make as much money as possible. Cash isn't just a way to measure how well you did in a heist, but is obviously a currency you need if you want to unlock any of the game's many weapons or cosmetic items to customize your theif. This makes earning money equally as important as leveling up and getting new skills since, no matter how good you are, you can't upgrade your arsenal without it. There are a decent number of jobs to take at launch, but not all are created equal in terms of potential profit. Even those that seem like they will give you the most cash may not be the most efficient. If you and your crew want to grind out money as fast as possible in Payday 3, these are the jobs to take.
Most profitable heists Before looking at the heists themselves, it should be noted that every heist you do can be made more profitable by increasing the difficulty level. Obviously, this will also increase the challenge, and beyond the normal level, we would only recommend it if you have a good loadout and team of friends with you as opposed to joining up with random people online. If you're unprepared, it can also make heists take longer, which is another factor you will need to consider.
Road Rage Road Rage is an early job you can attempt that is also the first one where there's no stealth option at all. You start this mission already masked up and on alert. The objective here is to break into an armored truck full of rare-earth elements that is set to cross the Queesnboro Bridge, which just so happens to be under construction. On normal difficulty, you can potentially between $200,000 and $500,000, but bump that up to Overkill and you can stand to walk away with $850,000 in a single job. You might wonder why this is the top when there are other jobs with higher potential payouts, but that's because this mission, once understood, can be done and dusted in 10 to 15 minutes.
Gaming While there are no classes to pick between in Payday 3, you do still have complete control over how your character plays and what role they will have in any given heist. The obvious changes will be in your weapons and equipment loadouts, but it is in the skill system where you are really free to personalize your masked criminal. You begin the game with two unlocked naturally, but quickly see that there are dozens more to unlock and try out within various categories. You're not able to simply pick any one that looks good and give it a try, though, but must instead research them before you're able to unlock them. Considering this will take a few missions at least with you and your friends, here are the ones you should prioritize researching first in Payday 3.
How skills and buffs work Researching a skill is mostly passive, but you do need to select which skill you want to be working on at any time -- you can't research them all at once. If you don't pick one, the game will automatically apply research to the first skill in the list, which likely isn't going to be what you want. To choose which skill you want to research, just highlight it in the skill menu and choose "Research" to mark it as the skill your points will go toward.
Gaming Leveling up is important in almost every RPG, but for a CRPG as deep and ruthless as Baldur's Gate 3 can be, being underleveled can make many aspects of the game essentially impossible. Each level provides you with valuable points within your skills, but also the opportunity to learn new abilities for in and out of combat. If you're too focused on simply trying to complete the main story, sooner or later you will hit a wall and need to level up before you can progress. Or, if you're more interested in making sure you can crush any battle and pass any skill check without needing to use Inspiration Points to reroll, then knowing the best way to earn XP will get you there. Here's how you can level up fast in Baldur's Gate 3.
Fight, fight, fight! Let's get the most obvious source of XP out of the way first. Every enemy you slay will deposit a nice, little chunk of XP toward your next level, with the amounts varying depending on the level of your enemies. There are a ton of optional fights in Baldur's Gate 3, such as some you can just happen to come across in your travels, but also others that you can choose to avoid by talking your way out of a confrontation. With the latter option, you will want to consider whether or not you're OK with potentially killing the specific person or group you will be fighting. Killing certain characters can have unforeseen consequences later on, but on the other hand, so can letting them live.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
