Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix F1 Live Stream Stranger Things Season 5 Best New Movies Most Popular Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney+ UFC Live Stream Best Movies on Disney+ Home Entertainment Guides Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? 5 movies like Five Nights at Freddy’s you should watch right now By Blair Marnell Close Universal Pictures The early box-office numbers for Five Nights at Freddy’s are in, and it looks like a major hit for Universal. Despite hitting theaters at the same time that it made its streaming debut on on Peacock , the current projections have this film opening at $73 million for the pre-Halloween weekend.
Willy’s Wonderland (2021) The Banana Splits Movie (2019) Killer Klowns from Outer Space (1988) Puppet Master (1989) Child’s Play (1988) This suggests that there’s been a woefully underserved audience for movies about killer toys and murderous animatronic creatures. However, Five Nights at Freddy’s is far from the first film to embrace that premise. Some of the other movies with similar stories are even much better flicks than this one. So, if you’ve already seen the film in theaters or on Peacock, these are the five movies like Five Nights at Freddy’s that you should watch if you’re looking for something in that same vein.
Willy’s Wonderland (2021) Screen Media Films Two years ago, Willy’s Wonderland shamelessly lifted the premise of Five Nights at Freddy’s … and ended up making a better movie out of it too! It certainly helps that this film has Nicolas Cage in the lead as the unnamed janitor who is tricked into working at the long-abandoned Willy’s Wonderland amusement center.
Among Us could be the next hit video game movie like Five Nights at Freddy’s. Here’s why 5 best sci-fi movies from the past 5 years you should watch right now 5 theatrical movies you need to watch in October On his first night, the janitor is attacked by eight murderous animatronic characters: Willy Weasel, Arty Alligator, Cammy Chameleon, Ozzie Ostrich, Knighty Knight, Tito Turtle, Gus Gorilla, and Siren Sara. Fortunately for the janitor, he dishes out punishment faster than the animatronics can take it. The only thing holding back the janitor’s escape is a group of kids, including Liv Hawthorne (Emily Tosta), whose lives are endangered by Willy’s pack of killers.
Watch Willy’s Wonderland on Hulu.
The Banana Splits Movie (2019) Warner Bros. Pictures Unlike the characters from Five Nights at Freddy’s , the characters known as The Banana Splits actually had their own live action/animated variety TV show in the late 1960s. Fleegle the Beagle, Bingo the Gorilla, Drooper the Lion, and Snorky the Elephant were just wacky characters until The Banana Splits Movie came along and reimagined them as bloodthirsty animatronic killers.
After watching Five Nights at Freddy’s , it’s clear that director Danishka Esterhazy had a lot more leeway in this film by letting the Banana Splits mercilessly murder several people without showing a shred of remorse or any redeeming characteristics. Now, it’s impossible not to think of the Banana Splits as slasher villains! Rent or buy The Banana Splits Movie on Google Play , Prime Video , YouTube , and Apple TV+.
Killer Klowns from Outer Space (1988) Trans World Entertainment The title of this film is as literal as it gets. These Killer Klowns are indeed from outer space, and they really carry the clown motif all the way through to the bloody end. The Chiodo brothers’ most famous film has become a cult classic because it actually injected some new blood into ’80s slasher flicks.
All of the Killer Klowns’ kills and weapons are inspired by circus fare, and it’s up to some plucky teens and a few responsible adults to stop this alien invasion before they all head to the big top in the sky.
Watch Killer Klowns from Outer Space on Freevee.
Puppet Master (1989) Full Moon Pictures There have been a ton of Puppet Master movies, 15 total by our last count. This direct-to-video franchise just never seems to stop. But if you’re looking for a pure horror experience, before the puppets went off to fight Nazis and torment other bad people, the original Puppet Master is pretty decent. In the prologue, the puppets’ creator, André Toulon (William Hickey), goes to great lengths to keep his secret about living puppets from the Nazis.
In the present, Alex Whitaker (Paul Le Mat) and a few of his fellow psychics are drawn together following the death of their former acquaintance, Neil Gallagher (Jimmie F. Skaggs), a man who discovered how to make the puppets obey his commands. Now, the puppets are coming for each and everyone of the psychics, even if they saw their own fates ahead of time.
Watch Puppet Master on Freevee.
Child’s Play (1988) MGM Child’s Play is by far the most successful film on this list, since it launched multiple sequels, a complete remake, and even a Chucky TV series that is currently running on USA and SYFY. Of course, the original movie made the best use of the premise, as serial killer Charles Lee Ray (Brad Dourif) was mortally wounded before using magic to transfer his soul into the body of a Good Guy doll named Chucky.
Karen Barclay (Catherine Hicks) buys the doll for her son, Andy (Alex Vincent), and Chucky reveals himself to and befriends his newyound owner as a pretense for his true agenda. While Chucky goes on a quest for revenge against anyone who wronged him, he also plots to steal Andy’s body. When Karen discovers the truth about the doll, she learns the hard way that few will believe her claims about Chucky’s true nature.
Watch Child’s Play on Max.
Editors' Recommendations 5 movies like Netflix’s The Killer you should watch right now 3 great PG-13 horror movies to check out if you like the Five Nights at Freddy’s movie 5 great Robin Williams movies you should watch right now 7 obscure sci-fi movies from the 1990s you need to watch right now Entertainment Few comics outside of the world of comic book movies and superheroes have had greater influence in recent years than Scott Pilgrim vs. the World. The story was created by author Bryan Lee O'Malley and follows a man named Scott living in Toronto who is forced to battle the evil exes of a girl that he's interested in.
The legacy of Scott Pilgrim only increased after a movie adaptation was released several years later and became a cult classic in its own right. Now, with the new animated series adaptation Scott Pilgrim Takes Off streaming on Netflix, we're here to make the case that Scott Pilgrim is the best comic book ever. Here are 10 reasons why: It has a unique sensibility Entertainment On November 20, 1973, Charlie Brown and the Peanuts taught us to count our blessings and appreciate the important things in life in A Charlie Brown Thanksgiving. In the Emmy Award-winning animated special, Charlie and Sally Brown are supposed to head to their grandmother's house for Thanksgiving. Before they can leave, Peppermint Patty invites herself and a few friends over for dinner. Even though he can't cook, Charlie Brown decides to improvise and cook a simple meal with the help of Snoopy and Linus before heading to his grandma's.
Though not as popular as A Charlie Brown Christmas and It's the Great Pumpkin, Charlie Brown, A Charlie Brown Thanksgiving is still quite effective in conveying the true meaning of the holiday. It's an appropriate tribute to Thanksgiving. Here's how to watch A Charlie Brown Thanksgiving.
Watch A Charlie Brown Thanksgiving on Apple TV+ Entertainment This week is a particularly memorable one for Netflix's original series with two big premieres. The Crown – the British drama that has been one of the most popular shows on Netflix since its premiere in 2016 – is heading towards the finish line with the premiere of its sixth and final season. Additionally, the cult classic film and comic, Scott Pilgrim vs. the World, is getting a new anime series, Scott Pilgrim Takes Off.
With the Thanksgiving holiday coming next week, there's never been a better time to catch up on what's new on Netflix. You may even need the breather because it's been a busy year for Netflix. Don't worry, our weekly update of the best shows on Netflix will always be updated on Fridays to help you plan your weekend binge.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
