Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix F1 Live Stream Stranger Things Season 5 Best New Movies Most Popular Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney+ UFC Live Stream Best Movies on Disney+ Home Entertainment Guides Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? 5 great Robin Williams movies you should watch right now By Dan Girolamo Close Robin Williams was truly one of one. Williams first burst onto the scene for his exceptional stand-up comedy. After breaking through as on Mork & Mindy , Williams became one of Hollywood’s finest actors. Williams’ ability to mix comedy with drama led to memorable roles in The Fisher King , Awakenings , The Birdcage , and Aladdin.
Dead Poets Society (1989) Mrs. Doubtfire (1993) Good Will Hunting (1997) Good Morning, Vietnam (1987) Jumanji (1995) With nearly 40 years of credits, there are new movies to stream films that feature different sides of Williams. We picked five great Robin Williams movies you should watch, including Dead Poets Society , Good Will Hunting, and Jumanji.
Dead Poets Society (1989) Buena Vista Pictures Distribution Williams inspired us all to seize the day in Dead Poets Society.
 Williams stars as John Keating, an English teacher at an all-male boarding school in Vermont. Known for its commitment to tradition and preserving the past, Keating flips the curriculum upside-down by preaching originality, individualism, and creativity.
5 movies like Five Nights at Freddy’s you should watch right now 5 movies leaving Netflix in October you have to watch 5 underrated movies on Netflix you need to watch in October Keating uses unorthodox methods to get his points across, such as standing on top of desks to demonstrate how to see the world differently and ripping out instructional pages in books on how to evaluate poetry. Thanks to his positive attitude and charismatic personality, Keating inspires his students to make their lives extraordinary.
Rent Dead Poets Society on Prime Video , YouTube , Apple TV , and Google Play.
Mrs. Doubtfire (1993) 20th Century Studios The name is Doubtfire, Euphegenia Doubtfire, dear. One of Williams’ funniest creations ever occurred in the 1993 hit comedy Mrs. Doubtfire.
 The recently divorced Daniel Hillard (Williams) wants to spend more time with his three kids. When his ex-wife Miranda (Sally Field) is seeking help to watch her children, Daniel dresses as an elderly British nanny named Mrs. Doubtfire and convinces her to hire her as a nanny.
As Mrs. Doubtfire, Daniel gets to spend more time with his kids while becoming a better parent in the process. It all culminates with a chance meeting at a restaurant when Daniel and Mrs. Doubtfire are both needed. Thankfully, help is on the way, dear.
Rent Mrs. Doubtfire on Prime Video , YouTube , Apple TV , and Google Play.
Good Will Hunting (1997) Miramax Films During his lifetime, Williams was nominated for four Oscars, winning once for his turn as Dr. Sean Maguire in Good Will Hunting.
 Will Hunting ( a great Matt Damon performance ) is an intellectual genius who works as a janitor at MIT. Besides drinking with his buddies in Southie, Will solves equations left behind on the blackboards at the university. One day, Professor Gerald Lambeau (Stellan Skarsgard) catches Will solving a difficult math problem.
When Will is arrested, Lambeau makes a deal: study mathematics and get treatment from a therapist or go to jail. Will agrees to the deal and starts therapy sessions with Lambeau’s college roommate, Dr. Sean Maguire (Williams). Sean challenges Will in these sessions, eventually gaining the boy’s respect. While Lambeau is interested in Will’s mind, Sean goes after his heart, forcing Will to examine his life and determine what’s important to him.
Stream Good Will Hunting on Max.
Good Morning, Vietnam (1987) Buena Vista Pictures Distribution Good Morning, Vietnam, one of the best streaming war movies , utilizes Williams’ comedic skills and energetic personality to a T. Williams stars as Airman Second Class Adrian Cronauer, a radio DJ sent to Saigon to work for the Armed Forces Radio Service. Beginning with his trademark line, “Good morning, Vietnam,” Cronauer wins over the soldiers with his humorous personality and love for rock and roll music.
Cronauer’s rebellious attitude is not well-received by his superiors, including Sergeant Major Dickerson (J.T. Walsh). Outside of work, Cronauer attempts to woo a Vietnamese girl named Trinh (Chintara Sukapatana), which also opens his eyes to the horrors of the Vietnam War through the eyes of the locals.
Rent Good Morning, Vietnam on Prime Video , YouTube , Apple TV , and Google Play.
Jumanji (1995) Sony Pictures Releasing To a certain generation, Williams’ performance in the fantasy movie Jumanji is his most important. After watching the entertaining adventure film, it’s not a stretch to say it’s some of his best work. In 1969, Alan Parish gets trapped inside a board game, Jumanji, while playing with his friend Sarah Whittle.
Twenty-six years later, two siblings – Judy (Kirsten Dunst) and Peter (Bradley Pierce) – start playing the game, which releases a grown-up Alan (Williams), along with giant mosquitoes, killer insects, a pack of monkeys, and a lion. Alan and the kids must finish the game to return things to normal. However, the trio must recruit adult Sarah (Bonnie Hunt) to play because it’s her turn.
Stream Jumanji on Max.
Editors' Recommendations 5 sci-fi movies on Netflix you need to watch in November 5 best sci-fi movies from the past 5 years you should watch right now 5 sci-fi movies on Netflix you need to watch in October 3 underrated Ethan Hawke movies you should watch 5 great Ben Affleck movies you should watch Entertainment Who is the best actress in Hollywood? If you poll 100 people, names like Meryl Streep, Cate Blanchett, Kate Winslet, Viola Davis, and Frances McDormand will be brought up. However, the most versatile actress in Hollywood is arguably Emily Blunt. The English actress does it all, from summer action movies and rom-coms to dramas and horror. How many actresses could play Mary Poppins, Kitty Oppenheimer, Emily Charlton, and Rita Vrataski? Not many! Blunt will next appear in October's Pain Hustlers, the upcoming drama that will stream on Netflix as part of its 2023 movie slate. Before Pain Hustlers, here are five great Emily Blunt movies you should watch, including a crime drama from Taylor Sheridan and one of the best mainstream horrors of the last decade.
The Devil Wears Prada (2006) Entertainment One of the many benefits of Netflix is the endless streaming options for movies in genres, including action, horror, sports, comedy, and romance. One genre that continues to add to its expanding library is sci-fi. From thrillers, like Spiderhead and The Titan, to action-adventures, like 65 and Star Trek, the sci-fi section on Netflix hosts multiple subgenres to satisfy all types of moviegoers.
For September, we curated a list of five sci-fi movies available on Netflix that should be seen this month. Some of our selections include a riveting tale from Denis Villeneuve, a political allegory from Bong Joon-ho, and a moral dilemma set in space.
Arrival (2016) Entertainment There are over 3,600 movies on Netflix. With such a wide selection, it can be overwhelming when it's time to sit down and make a decision about what to watch. With thousands of possibilities, there are that slip through the cracks due to their location on the homepage. However, many of these films are quite good.
Below, we selected five underrated movies on Netflix that you need to watch in September. The selections include one of the last great studio comedies, a pandemic thriller, a reimagining of a popular film from the 1990s, an underseen crime thriller, and a delightful romantic comedy.
This Is the End (2012) Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
