Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix F1 Live Stream Stranger Things Season 5 Best New Movies Most Popular Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney+ UFC Live Stream Best Movies on Disney+ Home Entertainment Guides 3 great action movies on Tubi you need to watch in October By Dan Girolamo Close One of the most underrated streaming services is Tubi.
 Known as a FAST service , Tubi is free at sign-up, and subscribers will gain access to over 50,00 movies and TV shows. Tubi breaks down its content into categories based on genre. For October, the genre to focus on is action.
Bloodsport (1988) Point Break (1991) Road House (1989) Bloodsport (1988) Warner Bros.
Without Bloodsport, there is no Jean-Claude Van Damme.
 The iconic action hero’s big break came in 1988 as Frank Dux, a U.S. army captain well-versed in the art of ninjutsu. Dux is accepted into the Kumite, a secret and illegal mixed martial arts tournament in Hong Kong. Dux abandons his military duties to enter the tournament, which attracts the attention of two military officers looking to arrest him.
Yet, Dux enters the tournament and excels in the beginning rounds, showcasing his excellent fighting ability. On the other side of the tournament bracket is Chong Li (Bolo Yeung), the vindictive defending champion. Thanks to Van Damme’s electric in-ring ability and athletic prowess, you’ll be chanting for Dux by the end of the tournament.
3 TV shows on Tubi you should watch in November 5 sci-fi movies on Netflix you need to watch in November 3 underrated shows on Netflix you need to watch in November Stream Bloodsport on Tubi.
Point Break (1991) 20th Century Fox Point Break has everything you want in an action thriller. It expertly combines a rising actor, Keanu Reeves , with a red-hot star, Patrick Swayze, to form a larger-than-life bromance.
Point Break has the perfect director in Bigelow, a master of action sequences and visceral filmmaking techniques. Plus, it has an intriguing premise full of thrills and suspense.
Johnny Utah (Keanu Reeves), a hotshot FBI agent, teams with veteran Angelo Pappas (Gary Busey) to investigate a string of bank robberies by a group of criminals who wear rubber masks of former presidents. Believing the robbers to be surfers, Utah goes undercover and infiltrates the gang led by the magnetic Bodhi (Swayze). However, Johnny’s friendship with Bodhi complicates his mission, as the FBI agent’s loyalties are tested.
Stream Point Break on Tubi.
Road House (1989) United Artists When debating the great action heroes of the 1980s and 1990s , names like Sylvester Stallone, Arnold Schwarzenegger, and Bruce Willis will inevitably be brought up. The action star who deserves more credit is Patrick Swayze. Swayze’s good looks and charming personality helped propel him to superstardom in Dirty Dancing and Ghost.
 However, Swayze deserves more credit for putting his spin on the action genre. One of those action films was Road House.
Swayze stars as James Dalton, a New York City bouncer recruited to take over security at the rowdy Double Deuce bar in Jasper, Missouri. Dalton’s no-nonsense methods work, much to the displeasure of corrupt businessman Brad Wesley (Ben Gazzara), who wants to control the entire town.
Road House may fall in the “so bad it’s good” category, but what’s undeniable is Swayze, who gives an entertaining and memorable performance.
Stream Road House on Tubi.
Editors' Recommendations 5 bad 2000s action movies that you still need to watch right now 3 action movies on Netflix you need to watch in November 3 action movies on Prime Video you need to watch in November 3 action movies on Hulu you need to watch in November 3 sci-fi movies on Tubi you need to watch in November Tubi Entertainment Peacock doesn't always get a chance to strut its stuff, but it does have an impressive lineup of films. They just don't stick around for long compared to the other streamers. Keep this in mind when we share our picks for the three underrated movies on Peacock. Most content new on Peacock has a very short shelf life.
This month, our picks include a hilarious mocumentary, a largely forgotten superhero flick, and a romantic comedy about the end of the world. These are the three underrated movies on Peacock you need to watch in November.
Honk for Jesus. Save Your Soul. (2022) Entertainment It has to be somewhat discouraging for Paramount+ subscribers to see so many of the best action movies, and the best movies in general, go straight to the higher tiers of Paramount+ with Showtime. Here at Digital Trends, we're firm believers in the idea that these movies should be available to every subscriber regardless of tiers. So our picks for the three best action movies on Paramount+ are available on all tiers.
This month's picks include one of the biggest action movies from last summer, a Best Picture winner at the Oscars, and a retelling of a real-life story. These are the three action movies on Paramount+ that you need to watch in November.
Mission: Impossible - Dead Reckoning Part One (2023) Entertainment Every month, new movies come to Prime Video. Others also leave the streaming service, so you might find yourself in the “get them while they’re hot” mode, desparate to watch a film before it’s no longer available. Conversely, you might not even realize a movie has been added that you have been meaning to watch.
What is it about those movies that were never on your radar to begin with, but are right up your alley now? We have lined up three underrated movies on Prime Video you need to watch in November, including a visually stunning sci-fi horror movie, a thrilling psychological thriller, and a cute rom-com.
Hollow Man (2000) Hollow Man (2000) Official Trailer 1 - Kevin Bacon Movie Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
