Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Netflix Original Movies Best Comedies on Netflix Best Netflix Original Series Best Anime on Netflix Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Fantasy Movies on Netflix Home Entertainment Guides 3 action movies on Netflix you need to watch in November By Dan Girolamo Close Who’s in the mood for an action film? Netflix has an impressive slate of action films that only improves with the addition of new films every month. New arrivals include Liam Neeson’s Cold Pursuit , David Fincher’s The Killer , and Adam Wingard’s Godzilla vs. Kong.
Saving Private Ryan (1998) In the Line of Fire (1993) 13 Hours: The Secret Soldiers of Benghazi (2016) This November, we curated a list of three action movies you need to watch on Netflix. Our action picks include one of the best war movies ever made , an underrated Clint Eastwood thriller, and Michael Bay at his finest.
Saving Private Ryan (1998) Paramount Pictures / Paramount Pictures Tom Hanks? Check. Steven Spielberg? Check. What more do you need? Heading into 1998, Hanks and Spielberg were two of the most successful names in Hollywood, with multiple Oscars to prove it. Yet, the two never worked together on a project. That all changed with Saving Private Ryan.
3 TV shows on Tubi you should watch in November 3 sci-fi movies on Peacock you need to watch in November 3 sci-fi movies on Hulu you need to watch in November Set in World War II, Captain Miller (Hanks) and his men are tasked with finding Private Ryan (Matt Damon), a young soldier whose three brothers were killed in combat. From the bloody beaches to the brutal countryside, Miller and his men go to hell and back to find Ryan, contemplating if he’s worth saving the entire day. 25 years later, Saving Private Ryan remains one of the greatest war films of all time.
Stream Saving Private Ryan on Netflix.
In the Line of Fire (1993) Columbia Pictures God bless, Mr. Eastwood. The iconic filmmaker is still working in 2023, which makes it even harder to comprehend that Eastwood headlined In the Line of Fire 30 years ago. Regardless of age, Eastwood is terrific playing Frank Horrigan, a weathered former Secret Service agent who failed to protect President John F. Kennedy from assassination.
In the present day, Horrigan receives a mysterious call from a man who refers to himself as Booth (John Malkovich), saying that he plans to murder the current president. Booth, later identified as a former CIA assassin, taunts Horrigan over his failures in this deadly cat-and-mouse game. Refusing to let history repeat itself, Horrigan gets reassigned to the president and attempts to thwart Booth’s plans.
Stream In the Line of Fire on Netflix.
13 Hours: The Secret Soldiers of Benghazi (2016) Paramount Pictures Michael Bay was born to make a war film. Loud gunshots, fiery explosions, high body counts , and chaotic action set pieces are staples of Bay’s films. Bay brought his signature style to 13 Hours: The Secret Soldiers of Benghazi , the 2016 war film based on the 2012 attacks on U.S. government facilities in Libya.
On September 11, 2012, Islamic militants attacked the U.S. Consulate in Benghazi. Stationed down the road is a group of six private military contractors hired to protect CIA officers and American diplomats in the city. The soldiers include Jack Silva ( The Office ‘s John Krasinski) and Tyrone S. “Rone” Woods (James Badge Dale). The brave men spring into action and stay up all night defending the facility in this exciting action thriller.
Stream 13 Hours: The Secret Soldiers of Benghazi on Netflix.
Editors' Recommendations 5 bad 2000s action movies that you still need to watch right now 3 sci-fi movies on Paramount+ you need to watch in November 5 sci-fi movies on Netflix you need to watch in November 3 action movies on Prime Video you need to watch in November 3 underrated shows on Netflix you need to watch in November Netflix Streaming Services Entertainment If you're coming to Hulu for your action fix, then you've come to the right place. Hulu may be owned and operated by Disney, but this streaming service is about as far from the Mickey Mouse Club as you can get. Hulu has all of the R-rated action flicks that just wouldn't fit in at Disney+, Deadpool movies and Logan notwithstanding.
This month, two of our action picks are based on comic books, while the third is an all-timer in the action genre that won't be hanging around on Hulu for much longer. These are the three action movies on Hulu that you need to watch in November.
Blade II (2001) Entertainment As the calendar turns to November, many streaming services will gear their programming to reflect the holidays. However, there will still be other genres readily available. Tubi, for example, still has a great selection of sci-fi films. As a FAST service, Tubi customers can access the service for free and watch programs with ads.
Sci-fi fans need to watch these three films in November: a reboot of a storied franchise from the 1960s and 1970s, an iconic horror film from John Carpenter, and a sequel to Guillermo del Toro's monster movie.
Rise of the Planet of the Apes (2011) Entertainment Sci-fi movies are available in abundance. There are some great classic sci-fi movies you can watch on streaming services like Prime Video. But there are also compelling new ones that might be worth checking out.
If you’re looking for something relatively new and off the beaten path, three sci-fi movies on Prime Video you need to watch in November include one that debuted just this year, a popcorn thriller disaster sci-fi flick, and a totally under-the-radar movie from an independent filmmaker.
I’ll Be Watching (2023) I'LL BE WATCHING | Official HD Trailer (2023) | THRILLER | Film Threat Trailers Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
