Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Netflix Original Movies Best Comedies on Netflix Best Netflix Original Series Best Anime on Netflix Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Fantasy Movies on Netflix Home Entertainment Guides 5 sci-fi movies on Netflix you need to watch in November By Dan Girolamo Close Sci-fi films never go out of style. From Alien and Back to the Future to Dune and Blade Runner , sci-fi films continue to improve thanks to new technology. Many sci-fi films find a home on Netflix and wind up on the streamer’s 10 most popular movies list. Films like Don’t Look Up , The Adam Project , and Bird Box are 10 of the most popular English films on Netflix ever.
Godzilla vs. Kong (2021) 65 (2023) The Adam Project (2022) Project Power (2020) Vivarium (2019) The Adam Project is one of our picks for sci-fi movies to watch in November. Other selections include the epic sequel to Godzilla: King of the Monsters , and a sci-fi thriller about a pilot’s fight for survival against the dinosaurs.
Godzilla vs. Kong (2021) Warner Bros. Pictures It’s the God of the Monsters versus King Kong in the battle for supremacy in Godzilla vs. Kong.
 Five years after the events of Godzilla , Kong is living on Skull Island under the watchful eye of Monarch. Meanwhile, Godzilla still lurks underwater, popping up to attack and decimate whatever’s there.
3 sci-fi movies on Paramount+ you need to watch in November 3 sci-fi movies on Peacock you need to watch in November 3 action movies on Prime Video you need to watch in November Now that Titans have been unleashed on the world, Apex CEO Walter Simmons (Demián Bichir) recruits Dr. Nathan Lind to lead an expedition to find a power source located in Hollow Earth that can control the monsters. To find Hollow Earth, the scientists need Kong to be their navigator. If only it were that easy, as Godzilla has other plans, attacking Kong and going toe-to-toe with the beast.
Stream Godzilla vs. Kong on Netflix.
65 (2023) Columbia Pictures / Columbia Pictures We need more dinosaur movies besides Jurassic Park.
 Thankfully, Scott Beck and Bryan Woods made dinosaurs the star of 65 , a simple, bare-bones sci-fi thriller.
 Set 65 million years ago, pilot Mills (Adam Driver) from the planet Somaris signs up for a two-year expedition to earn money to treat his daughter’s illness. During the trip, Mills’ ship crash lands on an unknown planet, which turns out to be Earth.
All of the passengers on board die, besides Mills and a young girl named Koa ( Barbie ‘s Ariana Greenblatt). Their only chance to escape is to find an escape pod at the top of a mountain 15 kilometers away. Mills and Koa quickly learn that dinosaurs, not humans, are the dominant species on the planet, and these creatures will do everything to stop the humans from reaching their destination.
Stream 65 on Netflix.
The Adam Project (2022) Netflix The Adam Project is a time-traveling adventure inspired by Back to the Future.
 As the film progresses, it becomes a surprisingly effective family drama. Pay attention because there are a lot of timelines. In 2050, fighter pilot Adam Reed (Ryan Reynolds) steals a time jet to travel back to 2018 to save his wife, Laura (Zoe Saldaña). During the trip, Adam crash lands in 2022 and meets his 12-year-old self (Walker Scobell).
Young Adam is struggling to cope with the death of his father, Louis (Mark Ruffalo), and grows apart from his mother, Ellie (Jennifer Garner). Due to his injuries, future Adam must bring young Adam with him back in time. However, Maya Sorian (Catherine Keener), who monopolized time travel and became the most powerful leader in the future world, is out to stop the Adams from altering the past.
Stream The Adam Project on Netflix.
Project Power (2020) Netflix Would you sign up for superpowers without knowing the result? That’s the dilemma faced in Project Power.
 Set in a future New Orleans, a mysterious pill called “Power” is sweeping the streets. Upon consumption, the pill gives people superpowers for five minutes. However, what superpowers you will get and how they will affect your body is unknown. It’s a risk that many are willing to take for a taste of invincibility.
The distribution of Power is getting out of control as crime increases and more people start dying from overdoses. Detective Frank Shaver (Joseph Gordon-Levitt) teams with Robin (Dominique Fishback), a young drug dealer, and Art (Jamie Foxx), a former solder, to track down the source of Power’s distribution. To reach their goal, however, they may have to ingest the drug they’re trying to shut down.
Stream Project Power on Netflix.
Vivarium (2019) Vertigo Releasing The definition of vivarium reads: “A terrarium used especially for small animals.” Vivariums are made to confine animals. There is no getting out. Using this knowledge, you can deduce the basis of Varium , a 2019 horror from Lorcan Finnegan starring Imogen Poots and Jesse Eisenberg.
Gemma (Poots) and Tom (Eisenberg) are a young couple looking to buy their first home. Against their better judgment, they follow Martin (Jonathan Aris), a peculiar real estate agent, to a suburban neighborhood with identical green-colored houses called Yonder. As Gemma and Tom explore the area, Martin disappears. When the couple tries to leave, it becomes a maze as they always end up back at the house. Trapped, Gemma and Tom search for a way out, but the presence of an infant complicates matters in this enigmatic sci-fi mystery.
Stream Vivarium on Netflix.
Editors' Recommendations 3 TV shows on Tubi you should watch in November 3 action movies on Netflix you need to watch in November 3 sci-fi movies on Hulu you need to watch in November 3 underrated shows on Netflix you need to watch in November 3 action movies on Hulu you need to watch in November Netflix Streaming Services Entertainment As the calendar turns to November, many streaming services will gear their programming to reflect the holidays. However, there will still be other genres readily available. Tubi, for example, still has a great selection of sci-fi films. As a FAST service, Tubi customers can access the service for free and watch programs with ads.
Sci-fi fans need to watch these three films in November: a reboot of a storied franchise from the 1960s and 1970s, an iconic horror film from John Carpenter, and a sequel to Guillermo del Toro's monster movie.
Rise of the Planet of the Apes (2011) Entertainment Sci-fi movies are available in abundance. There are some great classic sci-fi movies you can watch on streaming services like Prime Video. But there are also compelling new ones that might be worth checking out.
If you’re looking for something relatively new and off the beaten path, three sci-fi movies on Prime Video you need to watch in November include one that debuted just this year, a popcorn thriller disaster sci-fi flick, and a totally under-the-radar movie from an independent filmmaker.
I’ll Be Watching (2023) I'LL BE WATCHING | Official HD Trailer (2023) | THRILLER | Film Threat Trailers Entertainment Are you looking for something new to watch on Hulu? Although the streamer is better known for its movie library, Hulu also has a great lineup of TV series and classic shows that just didn't get the accolades they deserved the first time.
This month, we're throwing the spotlight on one of the all-time great TV romantic comedy/drama/mystery series that has only recently gotten a streaming debut. We're also taking a look at the resurrection of a horror franchise, and a quirky Hulu original series by way of Canada. These are the three underrated shows on Hulu that you need to watch in November.
Moonlighting (1985-1989) Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
