Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix F1 Live Stream Stranger Things Season 5 Best New Movies Most Popular Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney+ UFC Live Stream Best Movies on Disney+ Home Audio / Video Deals Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Showtime Free Trial: Get a month of streaming for free By Andrew Morrisey Close The streaming landscape has changed considerably. Reviewing some of best streaming devices , right away you’ll notice most require you to hold a premium subscription to watch content. There are so many to choose from, prices are rising, and you won’t really know whether the content resonates with you or not until after you check out the library. A great way to check out what’s available first is an introductory free trial, such as a Showtime free trial. Showtime’s streaming service is full of amazing shows like The Man Who Fell to Earth , Billions , and American Gigolo.
If you’re not sure where to start you can always check out our guide on what to watch right now. Nevertheless, a Showtime free trial is a great way to binge watch some of your favorite Showtime content without the need for a major commitment, or to see the content before you pay for a subscription. If you like what you find on HBO Max , or if you’ve burned through everything Disney+ has to offer, Showtime is a great streaming alternative. Whatever the case, you can find out everything you need to know about the Showtime free trial, right here.
Is there a Showtime free trial? Can you get Showtime for free? Are there any Showtime deals? Is there a Showtime free trial? Image used with permission by copyright holder There is a Showtime free trial, and it’s one of the best free trials among streaming services , even comparing well against the likes of a Disney+ free trial.
 With a Showtime free trial, you’ll get 30 days of complete access to Showtime’s streaming service, and you’ll need to provide a credit card in order to get things going. The free trial includes every season of every series on the network, as well as movies, documentaries, sports, and more. Another impressive part of the Showtime free trial is that it’s ad-free, allowing for uninterrupted binge-watching sessions and however else you may choose to maximize your 30 free days of Showtime access.
There are a lot of streaming services out there right now, and it can be a bit overwhelming trying to choose which has the content that most resonates with you. A Showtime free trial is a good way to test the waters, and with 30 days of free access as part of the free trial, you’ll have plenty of time to decide between Showtime and the likes of Peacock TV or Discovery+ , or any other streaming services you may have your eye on. You’ll also be able to do this from anywhere, as the Showtime free trial is accessible on mobile devices and tablets.
Can you get Showtime for free? The Showtime free trial is really the only way to get Showtime for free, but unlike most streaming service free trials, Showtime gives you an impressive 30 days to explore its content library. There are a lot of streaming devices out there that will allow you to sign up for a Showtime free trial through their own software platform, such as Apple TV 4K, but it’s important to recognize you aren’t actually getting Showtime for free in these situations. What these platforms are doing is allowing you to sign up for your Showtime free trial, and beginning your 30 free days at that point.
Alternatively, you might consider some of the other services with offers, like the Amazon Prime Video free trial , HBO Max free trial , the Sling TV free trial , or even the Hulu with Live TV free trial.
 They’re certainly not the same as Showtime, but they offer plenty of content to watch, especially on top of a subscription you already have! Are there any Showtime deals? Showtime’s streaming service is just $12 per month once your 30-day free trial expires. This price isn’t often discounted, but the Paramount+ and Showtime bundle is now available.
 This pairs Showtime with one of the more popular streaming services out there, Paramount+. This pairing has its own free trial, and packages then start as low as $12 per month if you don’t mind advertisements popping up while you watch. Showtime is also often available as an add-on to other services, such as Hulu, where you can currently get Showtime for just $1 per month for two months on top of your base Hulu plan. You could also tap into this with a Hulu free trial to see if that platform fulfills your streaming needs.
Editors' Recommendations Peacock TV free trial: Can you stream for free ESPN+ Free Trial: Can you sign up for free in 2023? Best 70-inch TV deals: Get a big screen for sports for $450 Best Samsung TV deals: Save on QLED and OLED TVs Best OLED TV deals: Save on LG C3, Samsung S90C, and more Deals Entertainment Cheapest Prices Free Trial Audio / Video If your eyes are squarely on buying a 65-inch TV, you need to check out TV deals with a focus on that size. That's why we've listened all the best 65-inch TV deals currently available below, so you don't have to go searching yourself. The TVs below cover a variety of different technologies as well as price ranges so there's something for you regardless of what your plans are. Take a look below at what we've picked out.
Onn. 65-inch 4K TV -- $298, was $348 The Onn. 65-inch 4K TV is a straightforward TV that's ideal if you're on a budget but still want a large TV. It has Roku Smart TV built-in so you have access to thousands of free or paid channels meaning an impressive amount of options of what to watch. There's also voice control support via the Roku mobile app so you can easily speak commands instead of typing things in with the remote. Three HDMI ports are useful if you have many devices to hook up.
Audio / Video Checking out all the TV deals but know your heart is set on a 75-inch model? We've narrowed things down here to all the best 75-inch TV deals going on at the moment. Encompassing everything from regular 4K TVs to the latest in 8K and Mini-LED technology, there's something for every budget and need here. Keep reading while we take you through the best options currently available.
Onn. 75-inch 4K TV -- $498 The Onn. 75-inch 4K TV isn't technically on sale but it's an amazing price for a 75-inch 4K TV. Its huge 75-inch screen is teamed up with useful features like three HDMI ports. It also has Roku Smart TV built-in so you can easily find movies and TV episodes across thousands of free or paid channels. There's also the Roku mobile app which means that you can use voice commands to find what you want to watch rather than needing to use the remote. It's straightforward enough and ideal for those on a budget.
Audio / Video It's around that time of year when we start seeing some excellent deals ahead of the major promotions and the holiday season. If you're patient, you can grab some fantastic bundles, like offers that include a new TV and sound bar or home surround system for the ultimate home theater setup. Wouldn't you know it, right now, LG is offering precisely those types of deals, and we wanted to call them out, giving you the opportunity to save big. Both offers include an OLED TV and a sound bar, although the models differ, and these deals will be available until the end of the year -- December 31st.
Save $200 on a bundle with GX sound bar and qualifying G2 or G3 OLED TVs Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
