Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Gaming Features Marvel’s Spider-Man 2 lets its villains evolve in ways comics never could By Tomas Franzese Close Marvel’s Spider-Man 2 , like the best Spider-Man stories, leaves a lasting impact on its characters. In comics, events like Death of Gwen Stacy, the corruption of Peter with the symbiote, Peter’s marriage to MJ, and the reveal of his identity during Civil War left a mark on both the web-slinger and readers because they were character-driven moments that felt like they would change Spider-Man forever. Not all of these moments were actually allowed to do that, though. To maintain a brand identity and accommodate an ever-revolving door of writers, Marvel Comics always tries to get Spider-Man back to a status quo after radical changes.
Looking at the people behind the masks Not a black-and-white world Most infamously, One More Day undid Peter Parker and Mary Jane’s marriage and the fact that people knew Spider-Man’s identity after Civil War. Although there are still plenty of excellent Spider-Man stories coming out to this day, personal stories with a feeling of permanence are rare unless the comic is set in an alternate universe like the excellent Spider-Man: Life Story.
This issue applies to Spider-Man’s iconic rogues’ gallery too. In comics, characters like Sandman and Doctor Octopus have had their own antiheroic redemption arcs but eventually go back to their old supervillain ways when Marvel editorial decides that is what’s best. That’s why one of the things I enjoy the most about Marvel’s Spider-Man 2 is the sense of character development, finality, and even redemption that it gives to many of Spider-Man’s villains. It’s simply something that’s tough to get out of Spider-Man comics nowadays, which makes Marvel’s Spider-Man 2 feel even more special.
Spoilers for Marvel’s Spider-Man 2 follow.
Looking at the people behind the masks When we meet Mysterio for the first time in Marvel’s Spider-Man 2 , he’s debuting a new form of interactive technology called Mysteriums around New York. They’re going haywire, and all signs seem to point to the fact that Mysterio has relapsed into his old villainous ways. By listening to the dev diaries and completing this sidequest, though, Miles Morales discovers what’s happening is much more nuanced.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Quentin Beck (Mysterio’s real identity) created this new technology after getting out of prison, but no one would support him because of his supervillain past. He seemingly finds nice co-workers in his old friend Betsy and her assistant, Cole, but they end up hoodwinking Mysterio and Spider-Man, forcing Beck to bring back the Mysterio branding for the Mysteriums. They then end up framing Beck for collecting the bank information of those who use them.
Spider-Man finds all of this out in what he initially thinks is a final confrontation with Mysterio. Afterward, Miles and Quentin speak, and Quentin says, “Mysterio will always be a villain, just as Spider-Man will always be a hero. It’s when you start looking at the people behind the masks that things get messy.” Quentin might not be a fully healed, perfect human with a normal life, but he’s not Mysterio anymore. This nuanced look at criminal rehabilitation is a core aspect of a lot of character arcs in Marvel’s Spider-Man 2.
 With Mysterio, Insomniac explores how ex-cons can struggle with grifters trying to take advantage of their situation. In Mister Negative’s case, he’s reformed to the point where he’s willing to actively be a hero and give up his powers to help Miles and Peter defeat Venom.
More broadly speaking, Marvel’s Spider-Man 2 is fascinated with analyzing how society treats and perceives “villains.” Kraven personifies this as a masochist who only sees villains like Lizard Tombstone, Scorpion, Vulture, Sandman, and Mister Negative for their powers and abilities, only to be shocked and angry if they’ve lost their edge, moved on, and are not as willing to fight as he thought. This becomes obvious during Sandman’s sidequest, which reveals that the character was just trying to live a peaceful life with his daughter before Kraven intervened.
Sony Interactive Studios Not a black-and-white world It’s a mindset Spider-Men have to get out of, too. Miles wants to kill Mister Negative for murdering his father until he understands that those feelings are similar to what inspired Mister Negative to get revenge on Norman Osborn in the first place. Meanwhile, Peter and Harry see the Symbiote as a solution to the problem; they can remove any nuance and “heal the world” by making everything one.
Spider-Man 2 recognizes that the real world isn’t black-and-white like that, so this superhero universe shouldn’t be either.
By the end of Marvel’s Spider-Man 2 , it’s clear that Mister Negative, Tombstone, and Sandman are reformed, while Scorpion and Vulture are dead by Kraven’s hand. By empathizing with these characters (or being willing to outright kill them in some cases), the world and characters of Marvel’s Spider-Man 2 change in meaningful ways that shouldn’t be undone and probably won’t be because Insomanic doesn’t have the same need to maintain the status quo.
Not every villain is treated this way. Carnage is clearly the same serial killer he was years ago in Wraith’s sidequests, and Kraven and Venom are mostly played as straight villains until their defeat. That was a bit surprising with Venom specifically, as he is one of the few Spider-Man villains to somewhat permanently become an antihero in the comics. But while Venom isn’t redeemed, Harry is. It’s clear that Insomniac sees the two as separate characters, with Venom truly being a symbiote taking advantage of its host.
Sony Interactive Entertainment By completing all of the Emily-May Foundation sidequests, Peter gets a final message from Harry. In it, Harry affirms that he still loves and respects Peter and gives Peter the materials necessary to create a new kind of plant that can help and thrive around New York. Even after everything he did as Venom, the ending of this quest shows that he’s still a kind soul who truly cares for his friends and wants to make the world a better place. Most of those in this universe probably wouldn’t glean that nuance after seeing Venom bite Kraven’s head off.
Ultimately, this remediation of many of Marvel’s Spider-Man 2’s villainous characters gives the game a sense of narrative impact that feels impossible to get from most Spider-Man comics nowadays. It’s concerned with looking behind the masks and making these characters grow, learn, and evolve first and foremost, and that allows it to tell one of the most personal, relatable, and permanent-feeling Spider-Man stories ever.
Marvel’s Spider-Man 2 is out now on PlayStation 5.
Editors' Recommendations The best video games of October 2023: Mario, Spider-Man 2, and more Don’t ignore Spider-Man 2’s side missions. They’re the best parts of the game Hellboy Web of Wyrd is one of the best-looking comic book games out there The little details in Marvel’s Spider-Man 2’s new trailer make a big splash Take a closer look at Sony’s special-edition Spider-Man 2 PS5 Comic Book Movies Features Marvel Gaming Insomniac Games showed a story trailer for Marvel's Spider-Man 2 Thursday night, giving us our best look at the game's interpretation of Venom yet.
Marvel's Spider-Man 2 - Story Trailer | PS5 Games At San Diego Comic-Con this year, Insomniac Games held a panel called Marvel's Spider-Man 2: Symbiotic Relationships, where developers and voice actors revealed more about the game, its story, and its characters. Most notably, we got this new story trailer for Marvel's Spider-Man 2, which features characters like Venom, Harry Osborn, and Mr. Negative.
The trailer begins with Harry Osborn and Peter Parker catching up now that Harry's out of the weird stasis his father kept him in. He asks Peter to help him "heal the world." We then see Harry meet Miles, who questions if Peter will still have time for Spider-Man now that he's helping Harry. After that, Kraven's forces begin attacking, and Peter asks Mary Jane to look into the villain for him.
Then, in one of the trailer's more surprising moments, Martin Li, who was the villain Mr. Negative in Marvel's Spider-Man and killed Miles' father, appears. He seems to just live in New York as a regular person now, although Miles' Spider-Man does confront him and say, "You don't know what you took from me." After this, the trailer shifts its focus to the Symbiote, which we see corrupting Pete, scaring Mary Jane, and more.
The trailer ends with Tony Todd's Venom saying, "We're going to heal the world," before beginning to tear up the streets of New York while fighting Kraven's forces. Venom has a very beefy, threatening look that's quite intimidating, while his one line in the trailer implies that Venom could be Harry Osborn, making this villain more tied to Peter and Harry's lives. It all certainly sets the stage for what's bound to be an enthralling superhero adventure when it launches in a couple of months.
Marvel's Spider-Man 2 will release exclusively for PS5 on October 20.
Gaming Marvel's Spider-Man 2 officially has a release date. During the Summer Game Fest, Insomniac Games revealed that the game is scheduled to release on October 20 as a PlayStation 5 exclusive. The stream also featured a few new details about the game, including new information about its villains.
Spider-Man 2 recently appeared at the May 2023 PlayStation Showcase, so it wasn't surprising that there wasn't any new footage at the Summer Game Fest. However, Insomniac presented new concept art, including one with Peter Parker and Miles Morales fighting side by side and another with the two Spider-Mans fighting Venom.
Gaming Geoff Keighley returned today with his third Summer Game Fest kickoff showcase. This showcase featured titles big and small from all corners of the video game industry. We got new looks at games like Mortal Kombat 1, Final Fantasy VII Rebirth, and Alan Wake 2, trailers for the new seasons of Fortnite and Call of Duty: Modern Warfare 2, and even the announcement of games like Prince of Persia: The Lost Crown and Sonic Superstars.
Like previous Summer Game Fest kickoff showcases, this live stream was quite dense, with lots of games to keep track of. Don't worry if you think you missed some featured games, though, as we've rounded up every announcement made during the Summer Game Fest kickoff showcase.
Prince of Persia returns with The Lost Crown next January Prince of Persia The Lost Crown - Reveal Gameplay Trailer Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
