Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix F1 Live Stream Stranger Things Season 5 Best New Movies Most Popular Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney+ UFC Live Stream Best Movies on Disney+ Home Entertainment Guides 7 things the MCU should do in a revised Multiverse saga By Anthony Orlando Close Recently, Variety released a bombshell article alleging that Marvel Studios is rethinking its plans for its ongoing Multiverse Saga following the lackluster success of its many films and TV shows. The studio is even supposedly pondering not having Kang the Conqueror be the saga’s overarching villain after all since the character’s actor, Jonathan Majors, is now on trial for accusations of domestic violence.
Have the heroes save the world less Reinvent Thor Bring back the original Avengers Kill off the Council of Kangs Bring back Scarlet Witch Make Doctor Doom the true big bad Recast Kang All in all, the studio clearly needs to return to the drawing board to bring the Marvel Cinematic Universe back to its former glory, and the higher-ups should consider doing these things in a revised Multiverse Saga.
Have the heroes save the world less Marvel Studios / Marvel Studios Many have criticized the MCU for following the same formula in its project, with one key component being the hero having to defeat the villain to save the world. But at this point, the Earth getting put in jeopardy doesn’t feel as exciting anymore, as it’s so common, it could very well show up on the weekly weather forecast in that reality.
7 biggest flaws of the most popular movie franchises, ranked 10 best movie superhero costumes, ranked In the future, the MCU should focus more on putting the hero’s personal world at risk to make new conflicts more grounded. For instance, Guardians of the Galaxy Vol. 3 was more about the heroes protecting one of their own from the High Evolutionary, as opposed to saving the entire galaxy from destruction. Audiences have seen enough of Marvel’s heroes trying to save the world. How about more of them try to save themselves for a change? Reinvent Thor Marvel Studios / Marvel Studios Taika Waititi’s work on Thor: Ragnarok helped revitalize the titular hero by injecting silliness and seriousness into his character. However, the director seemed to have put too much of the former in the God of Thunder’s fourth solo film, leaving him in dire need of another character change.
Should Marvel Studios choose to reinvent Thor again, they should approach him like they did in Avengers: Infinity War , as the way the character tried to redeem himself after suffering so much pain and loss to Thanos arguably made it the best chapter in his story.
Bring back the original Avengers Marvel Studios / Marvel Studios On top of rethinking Kang’s role in the Multiverse Saga, Marvel Studios has reportedly considered bringing back the six founding Avengers for another film. This would be quite a move since both Iron Man and Black Widow sacrificed themselves in Avengers: Endgame, with Steve Rogers going back to live a normal life married to Peggy Carter in the same film. Since these three heroes had such fitting conclusions to their run in the MCU, bringing them back could ruin these endings for fans.
However, the studio succeeded in bringing back iconic heroes and villains in Spider-Man: No Way Home , and they could very well do the same with Hugh Jackman’s Wolverine in Deadpool 3.
 Perhaps bringing these pivotal heroes back for one last ride together could give the Multiverse Saga a fitting sendoff, especially since it has been rumored to end with a reboot of the MCU in the vein of DC’s The Flash.
Kill off the Council of Kangs Marvel Studios / Marvel Studios This may seem like a bold move, given that the MCU has hyped an infinite amount of Kangs threatening the Multiverse with Loki and the third Ant-Man film. However, this twist actually occurs in the comics, as Immortus originally gathered the council so he could kill all the variants of him he considered inferior.
If Marvel Studios does change their approach to Kang as a villain, getting rid of all his other variants could be a surprising twist that will make Immortus far more threatening.
Bring back Scarlet Witch Marvel Studios / Marvel Studios Scarlet Witch may have sacrificed herself to destroy all the Darkholds in the second Doctor Strange film, but given her connection to Kang in the comics, the MCU seems to have built up too much to kill her off now. To explain, in the source material, Kang’s variant, Immortus, orchestrated the traumatic events in Wanda’s life so he could eventually take control of her shattered mind.
Since Wanda has pretty much followed the same path as her comic book counterpart in the MCU, it would seem like a missed opportunity not to bring her back so Immortus could have her take on all her former Avengers for control of the Multiverse.
Make Doctor Doom the true big bad Marvel / Marvel Since Marvel is planning to make a Secret Wars film and introduce the Fantastic Four, it only makes sense for Doctor Doom to end up being the final antagonist of the Multiverse Saga. 2015’s Secret Wars storyline does see Doom absorb the almighty power of the Beyonders, destroying every universe in a series of incursions, and ruling over a Battleworld created in his image as God Emperor Doom.
Having Doom overthrow Kang as the saga’s big bad would be a shocking but fitting twist, given the former villain is the Conqueror’s ancestor. And since the Beyonder in the MCU has been rumored to be a variant of Kang on Twitter , Doom could likely become the God Emperor by harnessing his descendant’s realty-warping power, establishing himself as the saga’s final boss.
Recast Kang Marvel Studios / Marvel Studios Even if Marvel Studios decides to make Doctor Doom the final villain, they should simply have a different actor play Kang going forward if Majors is found guilty. The MCU is no stranger to recasting its characters, as they did so with War Machine, the Hulk, Red Skull, Cassie Lang, and even Thanos.
Getting someone else to play Kang may seem difficult, especially since Majors set a high bar with his outstanding performance as the villain. But seeing how the MCU already built up Kang as a threat to the Multiverse, it would be a mistake to throw away his character now just to have Majors be his sole actor.
Editors' Recommendations The best MCU sequels, ranked The 10 darkest moments in the DCEU, ranked All the upcoming MCU movies we know about Comic Book Movies Marvel Entertainment November has been a great month for movies at Netflix, with the premiere of David Fincher's The Killer, and recent box office hits like Insidious: The Red Door and Spider-Man: Across the Spider-Verse. This week, the new additions include The Impossible, a 2012 survival thriller that has already landed on the list of the 10 most popular movies on Netflix. For younger viewers, Minions is also heating up the charts despite the pending departure of the other films in the franchise at the end of the month.
There's only one holiday weekend left in November, so what's the best way to stay on top of everything new on Netflix? Why, we are, of course. Our list of the best movies on Netflix right now is updated every Friday, even on holiday weekends, so you can easily find something for every movie lover in your life.
Entertainment Summer is long over, and the fall season is in full swing. It's now late 2023, and just about everyone is subscribed to Netflix and Hulu. But would you be surprised if I told you one of the most underrated streaming services around is Tubi? The upstart streamer has tons of new and old TV shows from every decade and every genre imaginable. Want to watch the buzziest series that aired on Max? Tubi has it. Are you feeling nostalgic about that old movie or cartoon you used to watch as a kid in the '80s or '90s? Chances are, Tubi has it.
Tubi has so much content that it can be hard to choose which shows and films are worth your time. Digital Trends is here to help you sort out which ones are worth watching. Even though the streaming service is free, time is valuable, and no one wants to waste it watching subpar content.
Entertainment Rather than waiting for the Thanksgiving holiday weekend, Apple TV+ and Netflix dropped two of their biggest shows of the fall this week. Netflix's The Crown kicked off its sixth and final season with four new episodes, while the Apple TV+ Godzilla-adjacent series Monarch: Legacy of Monster, dropped its first two episodes this week, with new episodes arriving weekly thereafter. Also this week, Scott Pilgrim Takes Off hits Netflix, while Max gets in on the act this week by premiering the second season of Julia.
Netflix, Amazon Prime Video, Hulu, Max, Apple TV+, Disney+, Paramount+, and Peacock still have new shows coming for the rest of November, including a handful arriving next week. But if you've been thinking about cutting back on your streaming bill, then perhaps you should consider signing up for the ad-supported tiers. In the meantime, keep reading for our weekly roundup of the best new shows to stream.
When you're done here, check out the best new movies to stream this week, as well as the best shows on Netflix, best shows on Hulu, best shows on Amazon Prime Video, and best shows on Disney+.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
