Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Shows on Disney+ Best Star Wars Movies on Disney+ Best Disney Movies on Disney+ Best Movies on Disney+ Best Kids Movies on Disney+ Home Entertainment News Disney+ and Hulu drop first trailer for Marvel’s Echo By Blair Marnell Close Among the upcoming Marvel Studios original series, Echo has been one of the question marks because its leading character, Maya Lopez, is not a headlining heroine in Marvel’s comics. However, the first trailer for Echo has been released by Disney+ and Hulu (which will both stream the series), and the first footage goes a long way towards winning us over by heavily leaning into the show’s TV-MA rating. Especially when Maya’s former guardian, Wilson Fisk (Vincent D’Onofrio), brutally beats a man as Maya looks on.
D’Onofrio is everywhere in this trailer, which furthers the show’s connection to Daredevil.
 Charlie Cox will also reprise his role as Matt Murdock/Daredevil in this series ahead of the upcoming revival show, Daredevil: Born Again.
 While Cox doesn’t appear in the trailer, the footage reveals that Fisk survived his violent encounter with Maya (Alaqua Cox) at the end of Hawkeye when she shot him and left him for dead. But she apparently blinded Fisk in one eye.
Maya followed Fisk’s lead and she was formerly a leader in his criminal organization. She only turned on Fisk after discovering that he was personally responsible for the death of her father, William Lopez (Zahn McClarnon). When Echo picks up, Maya has returned to her hometown in Oklahoma in an attempt to get away from her past.
Marvel Studios Chaske Spencer co-stars as Henry, with Tantoo Cardinal as Chula, Graham Greene as Skully, Cody Lightning as Cousin Biscuits, and Devery Jacobs as Bonnie.
All episodes of Echo will premiere on Disney+ and Hulu on January 10, 2024. But it should be noted that Echo will only be on Hulu until April 9.
Editors' Recommendations Marvel’s What If…? season 2 trailer teases multiverse adventure What went wrong with The Marvels? 5 reasons why the MCU is in trouble Spielberg and Hanks revisit World War II in Masters of the Air’s first trailer The Marvels just might be the MCU’s first huge box office disaster A new era begins in first Kingdom of the Planet of the Apes trailer Amazon Apple Comic Book Movies Disney+ Hulu Marvel Streaming Services Tech News Entertainment Get ready for Christmas in November. You will see this on all of the streaming services in November, but especially on Disney+. This month, Tim Allen's The Santa Clauses is back for its second season, but sci-fi fans may be more excited by the Disney+ premiere of Doctor Who. The Star Beast is the first of three Doctor Who 60th anniversary specials featuring David Tennant as the Doctor and Catherine Tate as his former companion, Donna Noble. The other two specials will premiere on Disney+ in December, before the traditional Doctor Who Christmas special officially introduces Ncuti Gatwa as the next Doctor.
Marvel Studios' Loki season 2 will come to a close this month, as will the initial season of the Goosebumps revival series. Additionally, Spider-Man: Far From Home is making its Disney+ debut in November, which leaves Spider-Man: No Way Home as the only live-action Spidey film with Tom Holland that isn't on Marvel's official streaming home. No Way Home is also the only MCU film that's currently absent from Disney+. Perhaps that will change at some point in 2024.
Entertainment In genre TV, few have the experience of actress Lena Headey. In addition to her eight seasons on Game of Thrones as Cersei Lannister, Headey also starred as Sarah Connor in Terminator: The Sarah Connor Chronicles, and she lent her voice to Evil-Lyn in Netflix's Masters of the Universe: Revelation. Now, Headey is heading back to TV next month with Beacon 23, a new original sci-fi series on MGM+. And if the new trailer is any indication, Headey's new character is a bit morally ambiguous.
Beacon 23 (MGM+ 2023 Series) Official Trailer Entertainment Technically, Halloween arrives at the end of October. But Disney+ and Hulu aren't waiting around to start rolling out the Halloween programing. For the sixth year in a row, Hulu will launch its Huluween slate of programming. Huluween will kick off tomorrow, September 15, with the Hulu premiere of Marvel's Werewolf by Night. The Boogeyman, a Stephen King adaptation that was originally slated as a Hulu original, will finally arrive at its intended destination on October 6. Stephen King's Rose Red is also on the schedule, alongside a number of Hulu originals and classic shows. There's even a four-episode event for American Horror Stories.
Disney+ is holding off a little longer for the launch of its fourth annual Hallowstream. This year's event begins on October 4 with the Disney+ premiere of Haunted Mansion and continues on October 13 with a new Goosebumps series that will also stream on Hulu. On October 20, Werewolf by Night will be getting a rerelease in color for the first time. However, most of the programming that Disney+ listed for October 31 are things that the streamer already has, like The Nightmare Before Christmas and The Simpsons Treehouse of Horror Collection.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
