Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix F1 Live Stream Stranger Things Season 5 Best New Movies Most Popular Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney+ UFC Live Stream Best Movies on Disney+ Home Entertainment Features If you want more Five Nights at Freddy’s, try these 5 horror games next By Blair Marnell Close ScottGames For almost a decade, Five Nights at Freddy’s has been giving gamers nightmares with its animatronic jump scares across multiple sequels and spin-off titles. Now, there’s even a Five Nights at Freddy’s feature film in theaters and on Peacock out this weekend. Even though the film has been met with less than enthusiastic reviews, it’s hard for a franchise to get much bigger than that.
Alien: Isolation Emily Wants To Play Outlast Until Dawn: Rush of Blood Silent Hill 3 Those who are itching to get more of the game’s universe can do so when Five Nights at Freddy’s: Help Wanted 2 hits consoles and PC this December, but that’s a long way away if you’re simply looking for a good Halloween fright. If you can’t wait that long for some fresh scares from Freddy and his fiendish friends but still want to grab some similar scary vibes before the month is up, these five games are the perfect way to follow up Five Nights at Freddy’s.
 And if none of these are your speed, you can always just replay the FNAF series.
Alien: Isolation Creative Assembly/SEGA / Creative Assembly/SEGA You may have some Five Nights at Freddy’s flashbacks when you play Alien: Isolation , especially when you’re hiding from Xenomorphs. Compared to those aliens, Freddy and his friends are pretty tame! The survival horror classic puts players in control of Amanda Ripley, the daughter of Ellen Ripley from the movies. And unlike the protagonist in Five Nights at Freddy’s , Amanda is never helpless. But it’s still not a good idea to take on the Xenomorphs one-on-one, because they will kill you far more often than you can turn the tables on them. This is a perfect choice for anyone looking for jump scares, as it delivers those in abundance.
Emily Wants To Play Hitchcock Games Since Emily Wants to Play came out a year after Five Nights at Freddy’s , it’s pretty safe to assume that the makers of the game were inspired by its predecessor. Whereas the player in Five Nights at Freddy’s has to make it through multiple nights, the main character in Emily Wants to Play is a hapless pizza delivery guy who has to survive a single night in a haunted house. The titular ghost is Emily Withers, a girl who died at a young age, and she clearly wants to play with her prey. The problem is that her evil dolls also want to play … and by play, we mean tear you apart. In this case, death isn’t the end for Emily, but it will be for your character if you can’t figure out a way to stay alive.
Outlast Red Barrels If you want some real scares, then Outlast is the game for you. This first-person horror title puts players in the role of a journalist named Miles Upshur as he investigates a mental hospital. Miles gets way more than he bargained for when he discovers that the facility has already been overrun by murderous inmates. The thing that makes this game such a horror classic is that you can’t fight back. Miles is simply not that kind of video game hero. Thankfully, he can run and hide, and you’ll need to use your best stealth tactics to stay alive. That arguably makes getting through this game an even bigger challenge than most of the others on this list. Tackle it if you dare.
Until Dawn: Rush of Blood Sony After Outlast , you may feel some relief to know that you won’t go through the first-person horrors of Until Dawn: Rush of Blood unarmed. However, you are pretty much stuck on hellish carnival rides until you make your way through the entire game. There is actually a direct connection to the original Until Dawn , one of our favorite horror games from the Playstation 4 era. But it’s something that doesn’t come up until late in the game. All you need to know going in is that your life is in your own hands, and you’d better be prepared to fight for it.
Silent Hill 3 Konami If the Hideo Kojima and Guillermo del Toro-produced Silent Hills had come to fruition, it would have been the perfect way to end this list. Even the lone Playable Teaser is a classic in the genre.
Silent Hill 4: The Room does have some first-person view elements in the game, but the installment that reminds us the most of Five Nights at Freddy’s is Silent Hill 3.
 The Lakeside Amusement Park is a prominent location within the sequel, as Heather Mason is forced to go through locations that are so creepy that even the animatronics from Five Guys at Freddy’s would be scared of them. This isn’t a first-person game, but it is one of the best survival horror titles from the Playstation 2 era. And it’s long overdue for a remake, much like the one that Silent Hill 2 is already getting.
Five Nights at Freddy’s , the movie, is in theaters and streaming on Peacock now.
Editors' Recommendations Peacock unveils Halloween Horror lineup featuring Chucky and Five Nights at Freddy’s Animatronics attack in new trailer for Five Nights at Freddy’s 5 movies to watch if you liked Violent Night Want to predict the next big Nintendo Switch game? Just rewind 5 years 5 games you should play during the Steam Next Fest Gaming Features Gaming If you’re hoping to add to your virtual reality HMD collection or are making your first leap, one of the more accessible options is getting a couple of new bundles. The PSVR headset is being paired up with some of the top tier new virtual reality experiences coming to PS4 in Blood & Truth, Five Nights At Freddy’s: Help Wanted, Trover Saves the Universe!, and Everybody’s Golf VR in two different bundles that you can purchase at Walmart. The two bundles, which are $350 and $300, give you everything you need to start your immersive dive into gaming on the PlayStation 4.
New PSVR Bundles at Walmart Each one of the bundles comes with the four-star rated PSVR HMD, the PlayStation Camera for tracking purposes, and a VR demo disc featuring Moss, Astro Bot Rescue Mission, and Thumper.
The bundle that includes Everybody’s Gold VR and Blood & Truth also comes with two PlayStation Move Motion controllers, which is why that particular bundle is $50 more. Both bundles are available for pre-order and release at the end of May. When you grab one of these bundles you're getting some of the most highly anticipated VR games around, but you can check out our list of the best virtual reality games for PlayStation VR to round out your library in the future.
PlayStation VR w/ Blood & Truth and Everybody’s Golf VR - $350 Entertainment November has been a great month for movies at Netflix, with the premiere of David Fincher's The Killer, and recent box office hits like Insidious: The Red Door and Spider-Man: Across the Spider-Verse. This week, the new additions include The Impossible, a 2012 survival thriller that has already landed on the list of the 10 most popular movies on Netflix. For younger viewers, Minions is also heating up the charts despite the pending departure of the other films in the franchise at the end of the month.
There's only one holiday weekend left in November, so what's the best way to stay on top of everything new on Netflix? Why, we are, of course. Our list of the best movies on Netflix right now is updated every Friday, even on holiday weekends, so you can easily find something for every movie lover in your life.
Entertainment Summer is long over, and the fall season is in full swing. It's now late 2023, and just about everyone is subscribed to Netflix and Hulu. But would you be surprised if I told you one of the most underrated streaming services around is Tubi? The upstart streamer has tons of new and old TV shows from every decade and every genre imaginable. Want to watch the buzziest series that aired on Max? Tubi has it. Are you feeling nostalgic about that old movie or cartoon you used to watch as a kid in the '80s or '90s? Chances are, Tubi has it.
Tubi has so much content that it can be hard to choose which shows and films are worth your time. Digital Trends is here to help you sort out which ones are worth watching. Even though the streaming service is free, time is valuable, and no one wants to waste it watching subpar content.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
