Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix F1 Live Stream Stranger Things Season 5 Best New Movies Most Popular Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney+ UFC Live Stream Best Movies on Disney+ Home Entertainment Features These 5 horror movies made me sick to my stomach. Here’s why you should watch them By Andy Boxall Close Andy Boxall / Digital Trends It was the perfect Halloween setting. I was going through some boxes in my parent’s dark, spider web-filled attic, and came across one lurking in the dark that looked particularly intriguing. After moving items aside to get closer, I saw the top of the box was opened slightly, urging me to peer inside. Upon lifting the edge up, dusty VHS cassette boxes came into view, each with intriguing titles on the spines. I had stumbled across my old, long-forgotten horror movie collection on VHS — and what awful treasures there were to discover within.
Understanding the horror landscape The Exorcist (1973) The Evil Dead (1981) The Texas Chainsaw Massacre (1974) Army Medicine in Vietnam (1968?) Aftermath (1994) If you’re wondering what to watch this Halloween, perhaps some of the movies I found in the box will provide inspiration. I collected horror movies in the U.K. from the early 1990s and into the 2000s, and the harder they were to obtain, the better, with the most reprehensible and gory examples being the most coveted.
Andy Boxall / Digital Trends If this is beginning to sound like a confession, then you’re right. There are three significant, true horror classics listed below, alongside a pair of very obscure, really hardcore titles that I can’t quite believe I purchased upon finding them.
Editor’s note: the following may include graphic descriptions of mayhem and murder that aren’t for the faint of heart.
5 banned horror movies to watch this Halloween, and 1 you should avoid Understanding the horror landscape How the internet was described in the mid-90s, taken from Scapegoat magazine.
Andy Boxall / Digital Trends Before we get to the list, context is very important to understand why this collection of movies would be a horror fan’s dream Halloween night viewing back in the ’90s. VHS was still the primary home viewing format, the internet was only being vaguely talked about, and fans connected through magazines, fanzines, and cinemas known for edgier performances, like the Scala in London, or annual horror-centric film festivals.
In the U.K., censorship was rampant, and the list of films and TV shows (not just horror or violent ones) being cut, refused a certificate, or outright banned was long and continuously updated. It had reached such a fever pitch that entire magazines were being published to talk about the issue. In my attic search, I found a copy of one called Scapegoat, which looked at censorship the world over, and it captured the zeitgeist perfectly.
An example of an advertisement for horror films, taken from Uncut magazine Andy Boxall / Digital Trends To further help understand what it was like, the magazine featured articles on how Mortal Kombat and Doom ’s violence helped usher in video game certification, and how the newfangled internet was making it effortless to view adult material that was outlawed. Though likely viewed as subversive at the time, Scapegoat recognized change was coming, but at the time the average horror fan had to put in a lot of effort to find and watch the films the government said you couldn’t.
You may look at the following list of films and at first think they’re nothing special, especially as they’re quite easy to find online, but at the time, it was impossible to legally obtain the majority of them in the U.K.. Had I put on a Halloween movie night featuring all these back in the ’90s, gorehounds would have eagerly traveled from far and wide to see and marvel at what was an eclectic list of illicit nasties.
Be warned that while we’ve avoided the most lurid details, even the suggestion of some on-screen acts may be unsettling to some readers.
The Exorcist (1973) Previous Next 1 3 Andy Boxall / Digital Trends Andy Boxall / Digital Trends Andy Boxall / Digital Trends The Exorcist , one of the greatest horror movies ever made, needs very little introduction, so why was it so hard to see in the U.K., and why are the copies I own slightly suspect-looking? While The Exorcist was given an 18 rating by the British Board of Film Classification (BBFC), which worked something like the Motion Picture Authority of America (MPAA) in the U.S., for cinema showings, it was refused a certificate for home viewing on video. The only way to legally see it back then was to catch a rare cinematic viewing.
Well, unless you were prepared to think outside the box. My VHS in the slipcase above is a genuine 1990 release from the U.S., where The Exorcist was freely available. But it took me a while to track that one down, and the VHS in the “Big Box” came long before it. The cover is definitely a photocopy, and the “18” rating stickers have been applied in a vague attempt at making it look legitimate. The cassette does seem to have original stickers on it, but it still doesn’t look right, especially with “Please do not touch the tape” stamped in Japanese on it.
My Big Box release is a wonderful mishmash of different elements, and evidence of the lengths many horror fans went to in order to watch one of the most intense horror films of all time in the comfort of their homes.
The Exorcist was finally given a certificate for home release in the U.K. in 1998.
The Evil Dead (1981) Previous Next 1 3 Andy Boxall / Digital Trends Andy Boxall / Digital Trends Andy Boxall / Digital Trends Another true horror classic that most people will recognize, Sam Raimi’s The Evil Dead suffered a similar fate to The Exorcist in the U.K.. It was initially approved with cuts for cinema, but the VHS was caught up in the “video nasties” scare of the 1980s, when it was labeled obscene (yes, really) and distributors were fined for carrying it. It was eventually given a home release certificate in 1990, but I didn’t want that one.
I wanted an uncut version, as the official U.K. release had been cut by one minute 55 seconds to obtain its certificate. The Dutch VHS is one I bought at a movie fair in Amsterdam when I visited in the mid-1990s, and I remember laughing with the person who sold it to me about how silly it was that I couldn’t see it uncut at home.
I’m pretty sure the tape and cover are genuine, but it was tough to find many details outside of a wonderfully geeky YouTube video showcasing a collection of Evil Dead VHS tapes. I’m not sure about the box though, as it’s stamped 20th Century Fox inside, and there’s no mention of the studio elsewhere on the tape or cover. An official, uncut version of The Evil Dead was finally released in the U.K. in 2001.
The Texas Chainsaw Massacre (1974) Andy Boxall / Digital Trends As intense as The Exorcist , but in a very different way, The Texas Chainsaw Massacre ( titled The Texas Chain Saw Massacre in the U.S.
) was barely seen in the U.K. before it found its way onto VHS at the beginning of the 1980s, when a loophole allowed films to be released without certification.
 It somehow managed to avoid being a “video nasty” like The Evil Dead , but quickly disappeared and was never given a certificate for home release until 1999.
My Dutch release came from the same movie fair where I purchased The Evil Dead , and it’s inside another Big Box. This time it appears to be a genuine “pre-cert” version though, at least based on the matching description of the massive case in this informative YouTube video.
 It was a jewel in my collection, due to the film’s notoriety and the fact most people had never seen it, but assumed it was an unpalatable, gore-filled 90 minutes based solely on the title.
Army Medicine in Vietnam (1968?) Andy Boxall / Digital Trends I’ve eased you in gently, but now it’s time to get serious. Horror fans tend to have a strong stomach, but the goriest films were often the hardest to track down — and the ones many fans wanted most.
Army Medicine in Vietnam isn’t a film, but a documentary-style training video made by the U.S. military around 1968 that was apparently shown to recruits before tours. The title speaks for itself.
It was mentioned in hushed, almost reverential tones among gorehounds, and considered one of the ultimate tests of your stomach.
Army Medicine in Vietnam didn’t use special effects — it was raw, real footage of medical teams dealing with horrific injuries in the field. It’s as grim as it sounds, and absolutely not something anyone would watch for pleasure.
I’ve eased you in gently, but now it’s time to get serious How did I get it? I had requested (by mail, as it was the ’90s) a list of available horror films from a dubious seller advertising in the back of a horror magazine, and to my surprise, one they had for sale was Army Medicine in Vietnam.
 It was very rare, and the collector in me had to have it. The seller would provide two movies on one video cassette, which is why it’s an army-centric double bill with the uncut, international version of Army of Darkness.
I’m pretty sure I only watched Army Medicine in Vietnam once, and it was as harrowing as you’d expect, but I remember lending it out to other people who wanted to experience it. In the horror community, it was treated much like any other gore film, except of course, it’s not an exploitation film, and the horror it contains is very different from the other films on this list.
Aftermath (1994) Previous Next 1 3 "Censored" caption added by us, unironically Andy Boxall / Digital Trends Andy Boxall / Digital Trends Andy Boxall / Digital Trends If you think Army Medicine in Vietnam would be a tough watch, then you really should pass on the highly controversial Aftermath.
 In fact, everyone should pass on Aftermath.
 It’s a short film set in an autopsy room, where a technician works on the corpse of a road accident victim before getting a lot more personal with it than anyone really needs to see. It lasts for 30 minutes, is sickeningly graphic, yet in no way designed to be titillating, and is probably even more disgustingly foul than you imagine.
Yet, it managed to have some artistic merit. The antagonist is a true horror villain, there’s no dialogue (which only adds to the tone), the design and effects are astonishing, and I remember the sound of the film being equally as overwhelming as the visuals. It won Best Short Film at Fantasia Festival in 1997, and I saw it on the big screen during a Eurofest film festival (1994, possibly) in London, where the director introduced it,and actually signed the VHS in the photo. I recall him being a very nice, quietly spoken man.
How Aftermath was described in a magazine after an early screening Andy Boxall / Digital Trends I have never watched the VHS. One viewing of Aftermath was enough for me, and everything I remember about it comes from that one cinema screening. When I think about it now, I feel it should be put in the vault along with other, repugnant horror/exploitation movies that were “popular” around the same time, including the Guinea Pig films from Japan and the August Underground series.
Aftermath , along with Army Medicine in Vietnam , represents the height (or should that be low point?) of my horror fandom, where it edged more toward finding titles with the most shock value, or the ultimate tests of my fortitude, instead of the best, most innovative examples of the genre.
These are my Halloween horror VHS collector confessions. I’ll leave it to you if you want to put one, two, or all of these movies on your October 31 watch list, but if you choose either of the last two, don’t say I didn’t warn you about them. Alternatively, there are some more mainstream horror movies on Amazon Prime you may want to check out.
Editors' Recommendations This horror remake shocked audiences 5 years ago. Here’s why you should watch it this Halloween Features Entertainment November has been a great month for movies at Netflix, with the premiere of David Fincher's The Killer, and recent box office hits like Insidious: The Red Door and Spider-Man: Across the Spider-Verse. This week, the new additions include The Impossible, a 2012 survival thriller that has already landed on the list of the 10 most popular movies on Netflix. For younger viewers, Minions is also heating up the charts despite the pending departure of the other films in the franchise at the end of the month.
There's only one holiday weekend left in November, so what's the best way to stay on top of everything new on Netflix? Why, we are, of course. Our list of the best movies on Netflix right now is updated every Friday, even on holiday weekends, so you can easily find something for every movie lover in your life.
Entertainment Summer is long over, and the fall season is in full swing. It's now late 2023, and just about everyone is subscribed to Netflix and Hulu. But would you be surprised if I told you one of the most underrated streaming services around is Tubi? The upstart streamer has tons of new and old TV shows from every decade and every genre imaginable. Want to watch the buzziest series that aired on Max? Tubi has it. Are you feeling nostalgic about that old movie or cartoon you used to watch as a kid in the '80s or '90s? Chances are, Tubi has it.
Tubi has so much content that it can be hard to choose which shows and films are worth your time. Digital Trends is here to help you sort out which ones are worth watching. Even though the streaming service is free, time is valuable, and no one wants to waste it watching subpar content.
Entertainment Rather than waiting for the Thanksgiving holiday weekend, Apple TV+ and Netflix dropped two of their biggest shows of the fall this week. Netflix's The Crown kicked off its sixth and final season with four new episodes, while the Apple TV+ Godzilla-adjacent series Monarch: Legacy of Monster, dropped its first two episodes this week, with new episodes arriving weekly thereafter. Also this week, Scott Pilgrim Takes Off hits Netflix, while Max gets in on the act this week by premiering the second season of Julia.
Netflix, Amazon Prime Video, Hulu, Max, Apple TV+, Disney+, Paramount+, and Peacock still have new shows coming for the rest of November, including a handful arriving next week. But if you've been thinking about cutting back on your streaming bill, then perhaps you should consider signing up for the ad-supported tiers. In the meantime, keep reading for our weekly roundup of the best new shows to stream.
When you're done here, check out the best new movies to stream this week, as well as the best shows on Netflix, best shows on Hulu, best shows on Amazon Prime Video, and best shows on Disney+.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
