Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix F1 Live Stream Stranger Things Season 5 Best New Movies Most Popular Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney+ UFC Live Stream Best Movies on Disney+ Home Entertainment Guides Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Here are all the MCU movies and shows you need to watch before The Marvels By Blair Marnell Close Marvel Studios In case you hadn’t heard, there’s a new Marvel movie out this week. But if you haven’t gotten around to getting tickets for The Marvels yet, don’t worry, there should be plenty of available seats.
 Perhaps the lack of anticipation is a branding problem, since calling it The Marvels distracts from the fact that it’s a sequel to Captain Marvel.
 And if you haven’t been paying attention to the Marvel Studios original shows on Disney+ , then you may be a bit lost about the two new heroines, Ms. Marvel/Kamala Khan (Iman Vellani) and Monica Rambeau (Teyonah Parris), who are teaming up with Brie Larson’s Captain Marvel/Carol Danvers.
Captain Marvel (2019) Avengers: Infinity War (2018) Avengers: Endgame (2019) Spider-Man: Far From Home (2019) WandaVision (2021) Secret Invasion (2023) Ms. Marvel (2022) The good news is that Disney+ is the streaming home for all of the MCU movies and shows that you need to watch before The Marvels.
 And in the interest of making things as easy to follow as possible, the shows and films are presented below in chronological order rather than by their release dates.
Captain Marvel (2019) Marvel Studios If you only have time to see one movie before you see The Marvels , then it has to be Captain Marvel.
 This has Carol Danvers’ origin story, even though it wildly deviates from the comic book source material. But we can’t fault the awesome job the filmmakers did on adapting Carol’s superhero costume, which looks like it popped out directly from the comics.
This film is also important because it establishes Carol’s connection to the Kree, the Skrull, and to Nick Fury (Samuel L. Jackson). Jackson is also back for The Marvels , which should tell you how important he is in relation to Carol herself.
Avengers: Infinity War (2018) Marvel Studios Avengers: Infinity War is a great film, and perhaps one of the best movies that Marvel has ever made. But all you really need to see for The Marvels is the post-credits scene with Jackson. As Nick Fury falls victim to Thanos’ snap, he sends a desperate S.O.S. via cosmic pager to his old ally, Captain Marvel. This moment got a big cheer in theaters.
Avengers: Endgame (2019) Marvel Studios Captain Marvel actually got to join the Avengers in Avengers: Endgame.
 However, Brie Larson’s screen time is very limited in this movie because it was filmed at the same time as Captain Marvel.
 But Carol does get to kick a lot of butt late in the film, especially when she goes one-on-one with Thanos. Carol also gets to fight alongside all of the other major Marvel heroines. It might be a while before that happens again.
Spider-Man: Far From Home (2019) Sony Pictures Samuel L. Jackson appears throughout Spider-Man: Far From Home , but it isn’t until the post-credits scene that viewers learn that Jackson wasn’t playing Nick Fury. He was playing Telos, the leader of the Skrulls from Captain Marvel , who was pretending to be Fury.
The real Nick Fury was revealed to be on a Skrull starship somewhere in deep space. It’s played for laughs in a lighthearted way, which is why it’s difficult to reconcile this scene with Fury’s somber return in Secret Invasion.
WandaVision (2021) Marvel Studios Young Monica Rambeau made her debut in Captain Marvel as a girl who looked up to her unofficial aunt, Carol. Teyonah Parris made her first appearance as the adult Monica in WandaVision as an agent of S.W.O.R.D. who attempted to get Wanda Maximoff to release the town of Westview from her control. Because Monica was exposed to Wanda’s magic barrier more than once, she gained superhuman powers of her own. The final episode of the series hints at Monica’s reunion with Fury when he sends a messenger to recruit her for his latest organization.
Secret Invasion (2023) Marvel Studios / Marvel Studios Nick Fury’s alliance with the Skrulls goes sideways in Secret Invasion , as the younger generation of Skrulls decides that humanity needs to go so they can have the Earth as their new home. The best thing about this series is that it doesn’t go out of its way to be funny. The downside is that the conclusion’s a bit lackluster, and it doesn’t appear to be directly setting up anything in The Marvels other than Fury’s new status quo.
Ms. Marvel (2022) Marvel Studios Iman Vellani is absolutely charming as Kamala Khan in Ms. Marvel.
 The series has a few problems with its lack of compelling villains, but Kamala is a great addition to the MCU. This is her origin story, and the reason it’s placed at the end of this list is that the post-credits scene of Ms. Marvel takes place during The Marvels , as Kamala switches places with her idol, Carol Danvers. But you’ll have to watch The Marvels to find out what’s going on there.
Editors' Recommendations 3 movies and TV shows like the hit Max series Julia you should watch right now 5 bad 2000s action movies that you still need to watch right now 3 dramas on Prime Video you need to watch in November 6 best TV shows you need to watch in December 3 sci-fi movies on Paramount+ you need to watch in November Apple Comic Book Movies Marvel Entertainment Long before there were streaming services, PBS was bringing together programming from all over the world to go along with original documentaries, news programming, and scripted dramas. The best part is that PBS was -- and continues to be -- free of charge. You don't need to be a PBS member to watch some of the best documentary programs that you can find, but it would definitely help these teams continue making the shows that you want to watch.
For this month, we've chosen the three PBS shows that you should watch in November, including a harrowing look at the war in Ukraine, an extremely enjoyable history of ninjas, and a documentary about the groundbreaking women's sports rule Title IX, which paved the way for female athletes to get the spotlight that they deserve. For more PBS shows, you can check out our roundup of everything coming to PBS in November.
Frontline: 20 Days in Mariupol Entertainment Words can barely describe just how terrible The Marvels really is -- although we certainly tried in our review of The Marvels, as well as my roundup of five reasons why The Marvels went wrong. But there are reasons why The Marvels isn't the worst movie Marvel has ever made, and two of the three reasons are directly related to the film's mid-credits scene.
Fair warning: There are full spoilers ahead for The Marvels' mid-credits scene. That was by far the most thrilling moment of the film, and we can't expand on that without going into detail about what it means for the future of the MCU. So consider this your final spoiler warning before we dive into the three things that The Marvels got right.
Iman Vellani is an absolute star Entertainment Who's in the mood for an action film? Netflix has an impressive slate of action films that only improves with the addition of new films every month. New arrivals include Liam Neeson's Cold Pursuit, David Fincher's The Killer, and Adam Wingard's Godzilla vs. Kong.
This November, we curated a list of three action movies you need to watch on Netflix. Our action picks include one of the best war movies ever made, an underrated Clint Eastwood thriller, and Michael Bay at his finest.
Saving Private Ryan (1998) Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
