Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix F1 Live Stream Stranger Things Season 5 Best New Movies Most Popular Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney+ UFC Live Stream Best Movies on Disney+ Home Entertainment Guides 7 most unpopular opinions about the MCU, according to Reddit By Blair Marnell Close When it comes to superheroes, everyone’s got an opinion. But since Marvel Studios is openly struggling , and The Marvels may have a truly disastrous opening , we thought it would be a good time to see what some of the diehard fans have been saying online.
7. Premature multiverse 6. Eternals had a better speedster than The Flash 5. More love for the Eternals 4. Relitigating Iron Man 3’s Mandarin twist 3. Black Widow should have been a Disney+ series 2. Target: Hawkeye 1. The MCU and Spider-Man should be overly comedic I scoured Reddit for the seven most unpopular opinions about the MCU, which I’ve reproduced below, followed by my thoughts on each one.
7. Premature multiverse Marvel Studios “Marvel jumped the gun with the Multiverse Saga. It should’ve been the next phase or next saga.
Secret Invasion should’ve been the next saga after the Infinity Saga and not only a show,” via Reddit user Schoolhater18.
Kind of hard to disagree with that. The Multiverse Saga hasn’t really come together yet, and Secret Invasion left a lot on the table that seemed to be underexplored. This is a prime example of an unpopular opinion that’s slowly becoming popular as Marvel churns out one disappointment after another.
6. Eternals had a better speedster than The Flash “ Eternals had the best on-screen depiction of a speedster. You actually felt how aggressively fast Makkari was going. In The Flash , the running scene just felt like he had no weight to his steps,” via Reddit user warf3re.
Kind of an easy target there. Everything looks better than The Flash , including The Flash TV show from The CW! Still, if you think of someone who runs fast in the comic book world, it’s The Flash, not some obscure Eternals character.
5. More love for the Eternals Marvel Studios “I loved the Eternals and like all the characters and understood their motivations. It’s easily the most interesting movie of Phase 4 for me,” via Reddit user WatermelonCandy5.
“Most interesting movie of Phase 4” is a bit of a stretch.
Eternals isn’t the best Marvel movie, but it’s far from the worst. “Most interesting” though? It’s hard to be interesting when all the characters are out-of-touch intergalactic flesh robots who seem above it all.
4. Relitigating Iron Man 3’s Mandarin twist Image via Marvel Studios “I like Trevor Slattery/faux Mandarin and found him to be one of the more entertaining parts of Iron Man 3.
 The twist was executed decently as well,” via Reddit user MagicBez.
Ben Kingsley can make almost anything work. But having Kingsley’s Trevor and the real Mandarin in Shang-Chi and the Legend of the Ten Rings went a long way towards redeeming that controversial Iron Man 3 twist.
3. Black Widow should have been a Disney+ series Marvel Studios / Marvel Studios “The Black Widow movie would have worked better as a series,” via Reddit user Darkmania2.
Good luck getting Scarlett Johansson to sign on to any series for six episodes or more. But sure, Black Widow could have definitely used more development and a bigger spotlight for her solo stories. Still, the movie was a big hit for pandemic times, grossing nearly $400 million at the box office and millions more from that day-and-date VOD strategy.
2. Target: Hawkeye Marvel Studios “Not sure if this is unpopular or not, but MCU Hawkeye just doesn’t feel like Hawkeye. And it’s not Jeremy Renner, he’s great, it’s just the lines and character development overall (if you can say he has any at all outside of [ Age of Ultron ] and Endgame ). He always sounds like a boring S.H.I.E.L.D. agent rather than a smart ass super spy and that made me so mad because he’s my favorite comic hero,” via Reddit user silver-surfer998.
This is actually true. The MCU’s Hawkeye was largely based on the Ultimate Universe incarnation of the character, who was more personality-free than his original comic book incarnation. The Hawkeye series attempted to add a little more flavor to Renner’s take on the character, but he’s still a family man rather than the roguish hero he was in the comics.
1. The MCU and Spider-Man should be overly comedic Sony / Sony “I have an actual unpopular opinion. I like that the MCU is so overly comedic. I’m so tired of this cynical hero bull[bleep] that we’ve had for the last decade. We get it you people are edgy, but I’ve seen “Superman” go rogue way too much at this point. We had Injustice , we had Watchmen , we had The Boys , we had Brightburn , we had Invincible.
 You’re not special anymore, let me have fun with my stupid fun fictional characters.
Let Spider-Man enjoy himself you self-loathing [bleep]. He’s not only relatable when he’s miserable. I already had five movies of him getting pushed around and slapped by Harry, his boss repeatedly abusing him, his father figures dying left and right, killing his girlfriend’s dad and then his girlfriend, killing his best friend, having no money, fired from multiple jobs, getting his stuff stolen. Let Peter have fun and make simple decisions like either going on a date or being a hero. I’m tired of his life being [bleep], being spider man would be fun sometimes it’s not always hell,” via Reddit user UrFriendlySpider-Man.
This Reddit user kinda misses the point about Spider-Man’s appeal. The superhero is an everyman, a relatable person who just happens to have superpowers, because of his misery. Ever heard of “the Parker luck”? That’s Spider-Man. That’s Spider-Man in the comics, that’s Spider-Man in the movies, that’s Spider-Man in video games like Insomniac’s Spider-Man 2.
 You can’t have the power without the responsibility.
Editors' Recommendations Why is the MCU so unpopular right now? The best MCU sequels, ranked 7 things the MCU should do in a revised Multiverse saga 7 biggest flaws of the most popular movie franchises, ranked 10 most shocking moments in the MCU, ranked Apple Comic Book Movies Marvel Entertainment Since its inception, the MCU has been defined in part by the incredible tools that its characters use to do battle with one another. While some of the characters in this universe are superpowered, others just have an exceptionally cool piece of tech or some mystical object that keeps them in the fight.
Some of the weapons on this list have been used for good, and others for evil, but what unites all of the items on this list is that each of them is immensely powerful.
Infinity Gauntlet Entertainment There's no denying the Marvel Cinematic Universe is one of the most successful and acclaimed media franchises of all time. Beginning with Iron Man in 2008, the MCU has expanded into many more films and TV shows, integrating the Avengers, Spider-Man, and the X-Men into its canon and growing more ambitious with each production.
Though the franchise has been an overall triumph, it has had more than enough creative misfires and bad business decisions. With the MCU now in its 15th year, audiences have seen how these 10 mistakes have left a stain on its otherwise shining reputation.
Sidelining Hawkeye Entertainment The alien invasion is upon us. It's impossible to know who is actually a human and who is a Skrull, as these shape-shifting extraterrestrials have infiltrated key controls in leadership across the Earth in a bid to control the planet. At least, that's the case in the upcoming Disney+ and Marvel Studios series Secret Invasion, which is easily one of the most anticipated shows of 2023. We last left Nick Fury (Samuel L. Jackson) operating alongside Talos (Ben Mendelsohn), a Skrull with a more virtuous outlook who is only seeking to protect his family and his own kind. Now, Fury leads a rather familiar crew to protect Earth from dissident Skrulls who seek to use their biological gifts to take control of Earth.
Secret Invasion will see the return of Fury's closest ally and operative, Maria Hill (Cobie Smulders), alongside Martin Freeman's Everett Ross. James "Rhodey" Rhodes (Don Cheadle) will even play a substantial role in the series as he will ultimately experience conflict between his duty as a serviceman in military leadership and his natural instincts and moral code. There will be plenty to explore in the world of Marvel with this thrilling six-episode series.
Secret Invasion is based on the comic series of the same name Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
