Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix F1 Live Stream Stranger Things Season 5 Best New Movies Most Popular Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney+ UFC Live Stream Best Movies on Disney+ Home Entertainment Guides Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? One of 2023’s best-reviewed movies is now on Netflix. Here’s why you should watch it By Blair Marnell Close Just under five months after it hit theaters, Spider-Man: Across the Spider-Verse has finally made its streaming debut on Netflix.
 The heavily-anticipated follow-up to Spider-Man: Into the Spider-Verse did not disappoint as it became one of the top hits of the summer. Given its overwhelmingly positive reception from fans, it should be among the most popular movies on Netflix within its first 24 hours.
The spectacular action and animation Miles and Gwen share the spotlight It’s one of the best movies of 2023 Joaquim Dos Santos, Kemp Powers, and Justin K. Thompson co-directed the film from a script by Phil Lord, Christopher Miller, and Dave Callaham. Shameik Moore reprised his role as Miles Morales, with Hailee Steinfeld as Gwen Stacy, Brian Tyree Henry as Jeff Morales, Lauren Vélez as Rio Morales, Jake Johnson as Peter B. Parker, Jason Schwartzman as The Spot, and Oscar Isaac as Miguel O’Hara.
Now, we’ll tell you why you should watch Spider-Man: Across the Spider-Verse on Netflix. It may even be worth staying home on Halloween.
5 movies like Netflix’s The Killer you should watch right now This underrated 2023 horror movie on Netflix deserves more love. Here’s why you should watch it The Devil on Trial might be Netflix’s most terrifying true crime movie. Here’s why you should watch it The spectacular action and animation Sony Pictures Animation Spider-Man: Into the Spider-Verse had a revolutionary blend of multiple animation styles that propelled it to an Oscar win for Best Animated Movie.
Across the Spider-Verse not only tops Into the Spider-Verse , it has to be the leading contender for the Best Animated Movie Oscar this year as well. Not only are the visuals breathtaking, the film also blends additional animation techniques and styles in a way that no other animated flick has done before.
Since this is a superhero movie, a lot of the dazzling visuals go towards the film’s action scenes. It’s truly like watching a comic book play out on the big screen, more so than any previous Spider-Man movie.
Miles and Gwen share the spotlight Image via Sony Pictures Animation Across the Spider-Verse doesn’t just focus on action. It also gives Miles Morales and Gwen Stacy their own character journeys throughout the film. Gwen’s story is particularly compelling since it starts with a flashback to the death of her best friend, the Peter Parker of her world. Things get even worse when Gwen’s father, Police Detective George Stacy (Shea Whigham), discovers that she’s the Spider-Woman he’s been hunting for Peter’s death.
Meanwhile, Miles is rocked by Gwen’s return to his world and by his inability to tell his parents about his double life as Spider-Man. Miles is also perplexed about why Miguel is specifically keeping him out of his spider society before Miles receives a bombshell revelation about what being a Spider-Man may ultimately cost his family.
It’s one of the best movies of 2023 Sony Pictures Animation It’s easy to say that Spider-Man: Across the Spider-Verse is the best superhero movie of the year. Considering this is the year that The Flash came out, the competition wasn’t exactly fierce, and Guardians of the Galaxy Vol. 3 was the only other superhero movie worthwhile.
But in this year of Barbenheimer , Across the Spider-Verse really is one of the best films of 2023, and it deserves more than just an Oscar win for Best Animated Movie. This movie is so well-crafted that it should get serious consideration in the Best Picture category as well.
Barbie and Oppenheimer are likely to get Best Picture nods, and Spider-Man: Across the Spider-Verse deserves that recognition too.
Watch Spider-Man: Across the Spider-Verse on Netflix.
Editors' Recommendations 5 best death game movies you should watch right now 5 movies to watch if you liked The Marvels This action war movie is popular on Netflix. Here’s why you should watch it 5 movies like Five Nights at Freddy’s you should watch right now Bodies is one of Netflix’s most popular shows right now. Here’s why you should watch it Comic Book Movies Marvel Sony Entertainment The best sci-fi movies often push the boundaries of what's possible to depict on the big screen by taking on complex fictional concepts that are often rooted in reality. Recent films in the category embrace the intersection between science, philosophy, and humanity, and use mind-blowing visuals and cutting-edge cinematography to bolster filmmakers' ambitious efforts.
From the visually stunning and otherworldly story told in Dune to the mind-bending mix of existentialism and the multiverse in Everything Everywhere All at Once, the greatest science fiction movies from the past five years represent the best that the genre has to offer. With so much to explore in the genre, these are the few standouts that should be considered essential viewing for fans.
Ad Astra (2019) Entertainment Halloween isn't for another week, but Netflix already has another treat for horror lovers. Creature, the new Turkish horror miniseries, has premiered on the 10 most popular shows on Netflix. It stars Taner Ölmez as Ziya, an idealistic young doctor whose determination to defeat death results in the creation of his own Creature (Erkan Kolçak Köstendil).
If you think that sounds like the plot of Mary Shelley's famous novel, Frankenstein, then you're not wrong. Çağan Irmak has put his own personal touches on the story that is at once familiar and different. And we've got three reasons why you should watch Creature this Halloween. We also have a viewing tip: Watch it in the original Turkish language with subtitles. The English dub isn't as convincing as the native tongue from the original.
A fresh coat of paint on a classic tale Entertainment It's officially spooky season, meaning it's finally time to binge as many horror movies as we can get our hands on.
One of the best parts of the Halloween season is celebrating with scary movies whether they feature goofy ghouls or bloody slashers. Unfortunately, this October doesn't have many big-time horror movies coming to theaters, though. The largest horror release would go to Five Nights at Freddy's on October 27, but the rest of the theater slate leaves much to be desired for horror fans. Thankfully, though, various streaming services are loading up their platforms with spooky hits to satiate our desires.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
