Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix F1 Live Stream Stranger Things Season 5 Best New Movies Most Popular Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney+ UFC Live Stream Best Movies on Disney+ Home Entertainment Guides The Marvels’ ending, explained By Alex Welch Close Marvel Studios Warning: This article contains spoilers for The Marvels (2023).
At the end of The Marvels , villains are defeated, long-ago wrongs are corrected, a new superhero team is formed, and one of the film’s three heroes is separated from her friends.
After realizing that the villainous, vengeful Dar-Benn (Zawe Ashton) intends to complete the restoration of her home planet, Hala, by draining the Earth’s sun of all of its energy, Carol Danvers (Brie Larson), Kamala Khan (Iman Vellani), and Monica Rambeau (Teyonah Parris) ambush the Kree leader on her ship. Using their swapping abilities to their advantage, the three heroes manage to wound and temporarily immobilize Dar-Benn, who seemingly agrees to abandon her planet-destroying plans in favor of letting Carol use her powers to restart Hala’s sun all on her own. However, when they free Dar-Benn, she turns on the trio again.
The Hunger Games: The Ballad of Songbirds & Snakes’ ending, explained The Marvels: Is it the worst MCU movie ever? Upload season 3’s ending, explained She steals Kamala’s Quantum Band, pairs it with her own, and prepares to unleash a devastating attack on Carol, Kamala, and Monica. The combined power of the two Quantum Bands destroys her, though, and the resulting energy blast transforms one of Dar-Benn’s unstable galactic jump points into a multiversal rift. As the tear in time and space grows, it threatens to destroy not only the Marvel Cinematic Universe ’s prime reality but also the alternate dimension that lies on the other side of the rift.
Marvel Studios Understanding the danger that has suddenly fallen into their laps, Monica tells Carol and Kamala to use the Quantum Bands to blast her with as much energy as they can. In doing so, the duo supercharges their friend, who flies to Dar-Benn’s multiversal rift and begins to close it. Carol, unfortunately, realizes too late that Monica will have to trap herself on the other side of the rift in order to save both universes. Consequently, while she tries to reach Monica before the rift is sealed, Carol and Kamala are ultimately forced to say goodbye to their beloved, now-stranded friend.
In the wake of Monica’s sacrifice, both the Earth’s sun and the MCU’s prime reality are saved. Carol, meanwhile, keeps the promise she made to Dar-Benn and tries to make up for some of her past mistakes with the Kree by flying straight into Hala’s dying sun and reigniting it. Later, Kamala and her family help Carol move into the remote home that Monica used to live in with her late mother, Maria ( The Woman King ‘s Lashana Lynch). Whilst there, Kamala and Carol take a moment to enjoy some quiet peace together, during which the former mentions how much she’s enjoyed getting to be on a team.
Cut to: Kamala waiting Nick Fury-style in Kate Bishop’s (Hailee Steinfeld) New York City apartment. When Kate returns home, Kamala tells her that she’s begun looking into other, younger heroes like them — she specifically mentions Ant-Man’s daughter, Cassie Lang (Kathryn Newton) — and asks her if she’d be interested in joining the team that she’s putting together. Kate smiles and, well, it looks like Marvel Studios has finally taken its long-awaited first step toward the official big-screen formation of the Young Avengers.
Marvel Studios Kamala and Kate’s team, notably, isn’t the only one that the movie sets up. On the contrary, The Marvels ‘ sole post-credits scene picks back up with Monica as she wakes in a strange medical room only to find her mother sitting next to her. However, much to her shock and confusion, her mother’s doppelganger doesn’t identify herself as Maria Rambeau. Instead, Monica is surprised to hear her referred to as “Binary” by her associate, Hank McCoy/Beast (Kelsey Grammer). As Binary begins to ask Monica some questions about her past, Beast exits the room — walking past a familiar, circular door with a big ol’ “X” on it.
The Marvels , in other words, ends by not only hinting for the first time at a Young Avengers team-up but also by introducing the MCU’s first, albeit variant, version of the X-Men.
 Few could have predicted that the film would do either of those things, and it is, of course, unclear how the movies and TV shows that are set to follow it will build off its closing moments. By introducing both the X-Men and the Young Avengers, though, The Marvels has seemingly emerged as a far more important addition to the MCU than many expected it to be.
The Marvels is now playing in theaters nationwide.
Editors' Recommendations Thanksgiving’s ending, explained The best MCU sequels, ranked 7 things the MCU should do in a revised Multiverse saga The Marvels: How many post-credits scenes are there in the latest MCU movie? 7 most unpopular opinions about the MCU, according to Reddit Comic Book Movies Marvel Entertainment The Morning Show has always done a good job of telling stories that mirror real life, and season 3 is no different. While the season ends in such a way that could easily wrap up the story for all the characters (albeit with a few loose ends), fans will be pleased to know that the Apple TV+ original series, one of its first, has been renewed for a fourth season.
The story in season 3 takes things in new directions, once again. It picks up following the end of the COVID-19 pandemic. The episodes touch on everything from the Fourth Estate and the future of legacy media to journalistic integrity and topical political issues, all leading to an explosive end.
The state of UBA Entertainment It's only been about three years since the last X-Men movie but already fans miss those merry band of mutants. Sure, the movies weren't perfect, and some, like X-Men Origins: Wolverine and X-Men: Apocalypse, were outright bad, but they still had a certain charm, an irresistible nostalgic pull that most people couldn't resist. The Fox X-Men movies were the first true cinematic comic book universe, and they established a foundation that helped the MCU take over the world with 2008's Iron Man.
The Marvels | What Comes Next | In Theaters Nov 10 Entertainment Peacock doesn't always get a chance to strut its stuff, but it does have an impressive lineup of films. They just don't stick around for long compared to the other streamers. Keep this in mind when we share our picks for the three underrated movies on Peacock. Most content new on Peacock has a very short shelf life.
This month, our picks include a hilarious mocumentary, a largely forgotten superhero flick, and a romantic comedy about the end of the world. These are the three underrated movies on Peacock you need to watch in November.
Honk for Jesus. Save Your Soul. (2022) Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
