Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix F1 Live Stream Stranger Things Season 5 Best New Movies Most Popular Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney+ UFC Live Stream Best Movies on Disney+ Home Entertainment Guides Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? The Marvels: Is it the worst MCU movie ever? By David Caballero Close The Marvel Cinematic Universe is in flames.
 Once the pinnacle of blockbuster entertainment, the MCU is now but a shadow of its former self, struggling to control its increasingly complicated universe while trying to maintain audiences’ attention. Following the end of the Infinity Saga, the MCU has produced numerous disappointments, and things don’t seem to be looking up for the company’s future.
The Marvels’ expected low box office performance and lukewarm critical reception only confirm the sorry state the MCU has found itself in.
7. The Incredible Hulk (2008) 6. Iron Man 3 (2013) 5. Iron Man 2 (2010) 4. Ant-Man and the Wasp: Quantumania (2023) 3. Ant-Man and the Wasp (2018) 2. Thor: Love and Thunder (2022) 1. Thor: The Dark World (2013) But these issues are not new. We were so high on the MCU craze throughout the 2010s that we gave it a pass or outright ignored the numerous mediocre efforts. While it’s easy to point at Thor: Love and Thunder and Ant-Man and the Wasp: Quantumania as the beginning of the end, the truth is the MCU has never been perfect. In fact, many of its projects released during the Infinity Saga are duds that only get worse with age. Some are merely adequate, but the worst MCU movies stand among the all-time worst superhero movies, and it’s high time we recognize it.
7. The Incredible Hulk (2008) Image via Universal Pictures Three-time Oscar nominee Edward Norton made his MCU debut — and departure — with the puzzling 2008 film The Incredible Hulk.
 The plot concerns Bruce Banner becoming the Hulk, a raging green creature, after acting as an unwitting pawn in a military experiment aimed at recreating the Super Soldier program through gamma radiation. On the run from those wanting to capture him, Banner attempts to cure himself. Liv Tyler and the late Oscar winner William Hurt also star.
The best MCU sequels, ranked 7 biggest flaws of the most popular movie franchises, ranked The 10 biggest mistakes the MCU ever made The Incredible Hulk is not so much bad as it is forgettable. It has never factored in the MCU’s ever-increasing lore, and not even bringing Hurt back as Thunderbolt Ross changed that. Watching The Incredible Hulk is like witnessing something produced by Chat GPT : it’s soulless, inconsequential, and disposable, an experiment as unnecessary and misguided as the one that produced the Hulk.
6. Iron Man 3 (2013) Image via Marvel Studios First things first: Shawn Black is a brilliant comedy writer and director. There’s no other way to describe the man behind Kiss Kiss Bang Bang and the masterful The Nice Guys , two of the most hilarious and criminally underrated movies of the new millennium. However, his subversive style wasn’t a good fit with the cookie-cutter MCU, and Iron Man 3 proves it. The film sees Tony Stark facing what seems like his most dangerous villain yet: the terrorist known as The Mandarin.
Iron Man 3 is not a bad movie per se. However, its big “twist,” the now-infamous choice to turn The Mandarin into a white Australian guy, remains perhaps the most ridiculous in Marvel history — and that’s saying something. Casting Ben Kingsley as an actor pretending to be The Mandarin, only to reveal the real Mandarin is actually Guy Pearce’s Aldrich Killian, might have seemed like a clever critique of racial stereotypes. In reality, it was a pretentious and mind-numbingly stupid idea and a disservice to one of the greatest villains in comic book history. Because, and no disrespect to the wonderful Pearce, he doesn’t have the juice to pull The Mandarin off, which is why his Aldrich Killian is probably the all-time worst MCU villain.
5. Iron Man 2 (2010) Image via Marvel Studios Iron Man might have kick-started the MCU, but his trilogy is actually quite bad. The second film, 2010’s egregious Iron Man 2 , is the worst offender. The plot sees Tony’s health deteriorating bringing out the worst in him and causing him to neglect his duties and push those closest to him away. As his antics grow increasingly wilder, Tony must fight with a new villain seeking revenge for crimes of the past while contending with a business rival looking to break into the suit-of-armor game.
Iron Man 2 features Tony Stark at his worst. Everything that makes the character popular is exacerbated and bastardized in a way that would make Chuck Lorre shiver. The problem here is that there is no bearable character in Iron Man 2 , with everyone from Happy to Rhodey falling prey to this detestable approach — don’t even get me started in Sam Rockwell’s frustratingly annoying take on Justin Hammer, a strong contender for the most abhorrent MCU character. What’s truly disappointing is that Iron Man 2 is supposed to be an adaptation of the famous Demon in a Bottle storyline, one of Iron Man’s most crucial and decisive arcs from the comic books. The fact that this is what the MCU came up with should have been our first warning that maybe it didn’t know what it was doing after all.
4. Ant-Man and the Wasp: Quantumania (2023) Image via Marvel Studios Ant-Man and the Wasp: Quantumania was supposed to be a big deal for Marvel, the kickoff to the long-awaited Phase 5 and the big introduction of the Multiverse Saga’s big bad. The plot follows the titular heroes going into the Quantum Realm by accident, only to find themselves going against the evil Kang the Conqueror. Paul Rudd, Evangeline Lilly, three-time Oscar nominee Michelle Pfeiffer, and Oscar-winner Michael Douglas reprise their roles from previous films, joined by newcomers Kathryn Newton and Jonathan Majors, who plays Kang.
Confused, absurdly silly, ugly to look at, and plain lazy, Ant-Man and the Wasp: Quantumania is a truly bad film. It has few redeeming qualities and squashes them with an excess of dumb jokes and increasingly off-putting visual effects. Featuring truly idiotic characters like M.O.D.O.K. and a plot that fails to justify Ant-Man’s presence in his own movie, Quantumania suffers from an identity crisis.
Jonathan Majors’ off-screen drama added another uncomfortable layer to this already cursed movie, ensuring its place in infamy. However, Quantumania ‘s biggest sin is wasting talents like Pfeiffer and Douglas, two screen icons who deserve infinitely better than this.
3. Ant-Man and the Wasp (2018) Image via Marvel Studios The Ant-Man series was never good. However, the first one was quaint and entertaining enough, largely thanks to Paul Rudd’s inexhaustible charm. The sequel, however, failed to justify its existence amid the rapidly growing MCU factory.
Ant-Man and the Wasp features the titular heroes teaming up to rescue Janet Van Dyne from the Quantum Realm while battling two minor villains doing minor villainy.
Ant-Man and the Wasp ‘s only contribution to the MCU was bringing Michelle Pfeiffer into the action. Otherwise, it’s an uninspired and completely unnecessary film, a minuscule adventure even by its hero’s standards.
Ant-Man and the Wasp is like a tiny, shaking Chihuahua dog; it barks loudly, but it ultimately does nothing more than annoy. The film feels ridiculously small, especially following Avengers: Infinity War.
 Like a child desperate to join the adult table, Ant-Man and the Wasp tries many things and fails at absolutely all of them, delivering a pathetic and boring film that honestly shouldn’t exist.
2. Thor: Love and Thunder (2022) Image via Marvel Studios When reviewing the infamous critical and commercial flop Heaven’s Gate , Vincent Canby of The New York Times claimed that Oscar-winning director Michael Cimino had “sold his soul to the Devil to obtain the success of The Deer Hunter ” and “the Devil has just come to collect.” Well, that’s exactly what I think happened with Taika Waititi: he sold his soul for the success of Thor: Ragnarok and the Devil collected with Thor: Love and Thunder.
Thor: Love and Thunder is awful, a multicolored mess that ended up being stupid while trying to be quirky. Like many creators who achieve unexpected success and find themselves unable to replicate it, Waititi takes everything that worked in Ragnarok and exaggerates it until it becomes unrecognizable.
Love and Thunder is neither romantic nor electrifying; on the contrary, it’s cringey and dull, with its main idea of humor being two screaming goats and floating heads. The dreadful visual effects don’t do it any favors, resulting in a truly revolting movie that feels like a middle finger to fans who have stuck with this saga for over a decade.
1. Thor: The Dark World (2013) Disney/Marvel / Image via Marvel Studios Like Ant-Man , the Thor saga was never great. Kenneth Branagh adopted a dignified, near-Shakespearean approach for his MCU introduction that worked well enough. However, Alan Taylor dropped the ball with the follow-up, the strangely uninspired and unoriginal Thor: The Dark World.
 The plot revolves around Thor fighting … I want to say an evil elf? Honestly, who cares at this point? This movie might as well not exist.
Thor: The Dark World is so inconsequential that I struggle to even write something bad about it — I struggle to write anything about it. I remember Loki seemingly dies in it, only he doesn’t, because, you know, Marvel. Rene Russo’s character actually dies, though, but it all feels so boring that her death doesn’t even register. Perhaps that’s what’s terrible about The Dark World : how can a movie with so much exposition feel so underdeveloped? There’s nothing here, no fun, no interest, no life.
Thor: The Dark World is a big pile of nada, a sad, mediocre effort that doesn’t succeed on any level.
Editors' Recommendations Why is the MCU so unpopular right now? 7 things the MCU should do in a revised Multiverse saga 10 best action movie sidekicks ever, ranked The 10 most popular movies of 2023 The most powerful members of the MCU’s Avengers, ranked Comic Book Movies Marvel Entertainment The MCU has plenty of upcoming projects that fans are excited about, but a potential fourth entry in Tom Holland's Spider-Man series is near the list's top. 2021's Spider-Man: No Way Home ended with Holland's Peter entering a new phase in his life. Forgotten by the world and with no one left by his side, Peter is now closer to the perpetually down-on-his-luck version from the comics that fans have come to know and love. The ending is the perfect setup for a new Spidey adventure, with Spider-Man acting as the street-level hero he was always supposed to be. But who should he fight in his new adventure, especially now that he has no Avengers or Avengers-adjacent allies by his side? Well, the possibilities are limitless. After all, Spider-Man has some of the best and most iconic villains in Marvel comics, and while many have already appeared in the Web Slinger's numerous live-action projects, some remain untouched by the film industry. From fearsome crime bosses to chameleonic supervillains, these infamous foes would make worthy enemies for Holland's Spider-Man.
Chameleon Entertainment Ant-Man is tired of being the comic relief. After playing a surprisingly pivotal role in Avengers: Endgame, he's back in his own high-stakes adventure to take on Kang, the time-traveling super villain from the Loki TV series, who seems to be at the center of the next phase of Marvel movies and shows. Ant-Man and the Wasp: Quantumania sees Scott Lang's whole family travel to the quantum realm, a trippy, sub-atomic, CGI-heavy dimension.
Ant-Man and the Wasp: Quantumania is one of the newest Marvel films. Only Guardians of the Galaxy vol. 3 is newer. Disney has just released the movie for streaming online, with almost no strings attached. All you need is a Disney+ subscription. Read on to see all your options for streaming Ant-Man and the Wasp: Quantumania today.
Watch Ant-Man and the Wasp: Quantumania on Disney+ Entertainment Right now, Marvel Studios seem to have more movies in its lineup than it can handle. As the Marvel Cinematic Universe continues to branch out with alternate timelines and new characters, the studio has plenty more stories to share with all the true believers out there.
From wacky spacefaring adventures to grounded political thrillers, here are all the upcoming Marvel movies that are known so far.
Guardians of the Galaxy Vol. 3 (May 5, 2023) Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
