Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Gaming Guides Lego Star Wars: The Skywalker Saga cheats and codes By Jesse Lennox Close Lego Star Wars: The Skywalker Saga is an absolute blast. The simple, yet challenging, gameplay makes for a fun solo adventure or a multiplayer romp if you tackle it co-op with a friend. And what makes an arcade multiplayer experience even more fun? Cheat codes! All Lego Star Wars: The Skywalker Saga cheat codes All regular cheats and how to unlock them How to enter cheat codes Cheat codes are becoming less and less popular options in modern gaming, but Lego titles are keeping the fun alive with secret codes instead of locking content behind cosmetic stores or paid DLCs. Cheat codes are notoriously cryptic and nearly impossible to guess, so here’s a full list of all the cheats in Lego Star Wars: The Skywalker Saga and what they unlock.
And if you’re just jumping into this game, check out our Lego Star Wars: The Skywalker Saga beginner’s guide and our guide on how to play co-op.
Star Wars Outlaws showcases its scum and villainy in gameplay debut The best Star Wars games of all time Star Wars Jedi: Survivor is being review-bombed on Steam as a ‘total crap’ PC port All Lego Star Wars: The Skywalker Saga cheat codes Image used with permission by copyright holder KH7P320 — Aayla Secura XV4WND9 — Admiral Holdo WOOKIEE — Chewbacca (Holiday Special) C3PHOHO — C-3PO (Holiday Special) SIDIOUS — Darth Sidious WROSHYR — Darth Vader (Holiday Special) OKV7TLR — Dengar TIPYIPS — D-O (Holiday Special) LIFEDAY — Gonk Droid (Holiday Special) 3FCPPVX — Grand Moff Tarkin BAC1CKP — Mister Bones WBFE4GO — Nute Gunray KORDOKU — Poe Dameron (Holiday Special) Z55T8CQ — Poggle The Lesser GR2VBXF — Ratts Tyerell ARVALA7 — Razor Crest (Mando’s ship) SHUTTLE — Resistance I-TS Transport ship VT1LFNH — Shaak Ti T9LM1QF — Shmi Skywalker SKYSAGA — Temmin Wexley Cheat codes will unlock one of two things for each code in The Skywalker Saga : A new character (or at least a new skin for a character) or a ship. Once a cheat code is accepted, that unlock is permanently available to you, so no need to enter it each time you boot up the game like in the old days. Here’s a full list of them in alphabetical order based on what they unlock.
All regular cheats and how to unlock them The purchasable cheat codes are more akin to the fun, wacky codes we loved back in the day, including the infamous big head mode! These all, once bought, can be toggled on and off in the menu, so don’t feel like you’re stuck playing with bread lightsabers once you unlock it. Here’s a full list of them, what they do, and how much they cost.
Studs x2 Studs collected are worth twice as much.
This can be combined with other stud multipliers for even bigger bonuses.
1,000,000 Studs x1 Datacard Studs x4 Studs collected are worth four times as much.
This can be combined with other stud multipliers for even bigger bonuses.
2,000,000 Studs x1 Datacard Studs x6 Studs collected are worth six times as much.
This can be combined with other stud multipliers for even bigger bonuses.
8,000,000 Studs x1 Datacard Studs x8 Studs collected are worth eight times as much.
This can be combined with other stud multipliers for even bigger bonuses.
48,000,000 Studs x1 Datacard Studs x10 Studs collected are worth 10 times as much.
This can be combined with other stud multipliers for even bigger bonuses.
384,000,000 Studs x1 Datacard Super GNK Droid Adds a golden GNK droid to the party. Super GNK is invincible, moves very quickly… and has a mustache.
1,000,000 Studs x1 Datacard Porg Companion A porg companion will aid you in battle, occasionally sending enemies into a frenzy with a piercing scream.
500,000 Studs x1 Datacard Baguette Lightsabers Turns all Lightsabers into freshly baked baguettes. Devastating AND delicious! 250,000 Studs x1 Datacard Galaxy Rave Turns Galaxy Free Play into a fun disco for all to enjoy! Be aware, while the Galaxy Rave is active there is a chance that characters in game will be too busy grooving to your actions in game! 500,000,000 Studs x1 Datacard Television Mode Adds an old-timey screen effect to the game. This can’t be activated at the same time as Retro Mode.
250,000 Studs x1 Datacard Hologram Mode Gives playable characters and ships a hologram look! 500,000 Studs x1 Datacard Retro Mode Adds a retro-style screen effect to the game. This can’t be activated at the same time as Television Mode.
250,000 Studs x1 Datacard GNK Civilians Replaces all civilians with GNK droids.
1,000,000 Studs x1 Datacard Mumble Mode Replaces all voices with mumbles for the classic Lego Star Wars experience! Free! Comedy Weapons Blaster and other ranged weapons are replaced with silly items. Don’t worry, they still work normally! 250,000 Studs x1 Datacard Rainbow Effects Certain attack effects are replaced with sparkly rainbow versions.
250,000 Studs x1 Datacard Cantina Music The infamous earworm from Figrin D’an and the Modal Nodes, as heard in Chalmun’s Cantina in Mos Eisley, will play on a loop.
250,000 Studs x1 Datacard Big Head Mode Gives playable characters giant heads! Note that certain characters are immune to this effect.
500,000 Studs x1 Datacard Pew Pew Projectile sound effects from ranged weapons (such as blasters) are replaced with mouth-made versions.
500,000 Studs x1 Datacards Universal Translator Allows any playable character to understand any language. Give that trusty protocol droid a well-earned break! 500,000 Studs x1 Datacard How to enter cheat codes Image used with permission by copyright holder Entering cheats usually requires either going to a dedicated menu or entering a series of button prompts on a specific screen that isn’t communicated to the player. In Lego Star Wars: The Skywalker Saga , developers went with the former method and added a nice, clean way of entering codes.
To start entering cheat codes, pause the game and scroll right on the menu until you see the Enter Code option. Select this and you will be brought to a digital keyboard where you can put in a seven-digit cheat code. Once entered, whatever your code unlocked will automatically be available to use in Free Play.
Note that cheat codes are different from regular cheats, which are in the Extras menu. These cheats don’t require codes to unlock but are instead purchased using Datacards, a specific collectible item in The Skywalker Saga.
 We will also list those below, along with their unlock requirements since they are arguably more fun than what codes unlock.
Editors' Recommendations Star Wars Outlaws: release date window, trailers, gameplay, and more Ubisoft’s Star Wars Outlaws stars a cunning hero seeking a new life All Stim upgrade locations in Star Wars Jedi: Survivor Star Wars Jedi: Survivor: release date, trailers, preorders, and more First Star Wars Jedi: Survivor trailer features dual-lightsaber combat, open-world teases Action Games Sci-Fi Star Wars Gaming The release date of the highly anticipated Star Wars game Star Wars Jedi: Survivor leaked on the game's official Steam page.
A Steam Page for Star Wars Jedi: Survivor went live with this release date information on Monday morning, seemingly ahead of a heavily rumored appearance at The Game Awards. The store page description reveals more details about Star Wars Jedi: Survivor as well as its Deluxe Edition, which contains cosmetics that make protagonist Cal Kestis look like Luke Skywalker and Han Solo and the pre-order bonus with a costume, Lightsaber, and Blaster based on Obi-Wan.
The "About This Game" section also provides more details on the game. Narratively, Star Wars Jedi: Survivor's Steam page explains that "Cal is driven to make a stand during the galaxy’s darkest times -- but how far is he willing to go to protect himself, his crew, and the legacy of the Jedi Order?" On the gameplay side of things, new Force abilities, Lightsaber fighting styles, and enemies to take down are teased. Star Wars Jedi: Survivor looks like it will be a galaxy-trotting adventure like its predecessor the description hints that there will be lots of planets to explore and that they'll be bigger and have more secrets than the ones in Star Wars Jedi: Fallen Order.
EA and Respawn Entertainment have been relatively quiet regarding Star Wars Jedi: Survivor since announcing the game in May, so it's exciting to get a lot of new information about the game like its sooner-than-expected release date. If the rumors are true, this may have deflated the hype from one of The Game Awards 2022's big reveals.
Star Wars Jedi: Survivor will be released for PC, PS5, and Xbox Series X/S on March 15, 2023.
Gaming Xbox Game Pass is getting 11 new games in December, with some out on the platform starting today. The list includes The Game Awards nominated Lego Star Wars: The Skywalker Saga and Eastward, which was previously a console exclusive on Nintendo Switch.
Microsoft's gaming service tends to add two batches of games every month, so this new batch makes up the first half of its December releases. Starting today, players can already download Eastward, The Walking Dead: The Final Season, and Totally Reliable Delivery Service.
Gaming Fortnite is throwing yet another Star Wars celebration. Skywalker Week is the name of the event, and to mark the occasion, the battle royale is introducing three new skins: Luke Skywalker, Princess/Commander Leia Organa, and Han Solo.
Defend the Galaxy in Fortnite During Skywalker Week Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
