Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: How Much is Spotify Premium? Download Songs from Spotify Share a Spotify Playlist How to Cancel Spotify Premium Apple Music vs Spotify Spotify Free Trial Delete Spotify Account Home Audio / Video Guides Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? What is Pandora? Music, features and pricing explained By Michael Bizzaco Close When it comes to music-streaming services, would it surprise you to learn that there was a time when platforms like Spotify , Apple Music , and Tidal didn’t even exist? Back in these prehistoric days, our melodically inclined ancestors were stuck with things called “radio,” “CDs,” and “vinyl,” the latter of which is actually doing really well at the moment.
 That is until services like iTunes and a mighty savior called Pandora arrived to transition mankind from its pit of musical starvation to a haven of harmonies.
What is Pandora? How much is Pandora? How do you use Pandora? What is Pandora’s audio quality like? How do you download music from Pandora? How can you listen to Pandora? What is Pandora missing? Believe it or not, Pandora is still around today, and it’s still a pretty good way to enjoy your favorite tunes, albums, and podcasts. Whether this is the first time you’re hearing about the service, or you want a refresher on everything Pandora has to offer, we’ve put together this guide to address the platform’s most salient features.
The Discovery screen on the Pandora desktop app.
Michael Bizzaco / Digital Trends What is Pandora? Pandora is a music-streaming platform that gives you access to an immense library of albums, artists, playlists, and podcasts. With an emphasis on curation and recommendations, Pandora allows you to build “stations” that are algorithmically linked to the types of music you enjoy listening to. The more you listen, the more attuned to your preferences the stations get.
You’ll also be able to use Pandora to create and share your own playlists and to download music for offline listening (mobile only).
SiriusXM reboots satellite radio with new app, features — and price What is Apple Music? Music, pricing, and features explained What is Apple TV+? Pricing, features, how to get it, and more How much is Pandora? Pandora offers one free listening tier and two paid subscriptions.
 Under the free plan, you’ll be able to enjoy a number of Pandora’s features but with the occasional interruption of ads for both desktop and mobile streaming apps. You also won’t be able to make or share any playlists or download any tracks for offline listening.
Upgrading to Pandora Plus for $5 per month (or $55 annually) shoves advertisements completely out of the picture. You’ll also be able to skip as many tracks as you want, and you’ll also gain access to offline downloads.
Unfortunately, if you’re all about those playlists, you’ll probably want to sign up for Pandora’s highest-priced plan, Pandora Premium for $10 per month (or $110 annually). On the highest shelf, you’ll get all the same benefits as the Plus tier, along with the ability to make and share playlists.
Premium is also offered at a discounted rate for families, students, and those in the military. For $15 per month, the Family plan grants Premium benefits to up to six members of your family, along with a unique playlist feature called Our Soundtrack that builds a mini-song library based on your own musical tastes, plus that of your kin.
The Student plan adds a 50% discount to a Premium subscription, and the Military plan brings the price down to $8 per month from $10. Oh, and when you sign up for Pandora Plus or Premium, both plans are free for the first 30 days.
How do you use Pandora? We took the Pandora streaming service for a test drive using the macOS desktop app on a MacBook Pro, and with the iOS app on an iPhone 12. We signed up for a Pandora Premium account on Pandora’s site.
When you first launch the desktop app, you’ll be on a page called My Collection.
 Use the search bar in the middle to search for a song, artist, album, or podcast. While you’ll be able to listen to any song or album that you’d like (under Plus and Premium plans), Pandora’s algorithmic recommendations for your personalized station get better the more you use the platform. So if you want to find new music that sounds similar to the polka artists you love, make sure to give a thumbs up to the new and classic tracks you hear that you think sound good.
That being said, let’s break down the many parts of Pandora’s desktop and mobile apps, as well as its browser-based player.
The Now Playing screen on the Pandora desktop app.
Michael Bizzaco / Digital Trends At the top of the desktop app, you’ll see three main tabs: Now Playing , My Collection , and Browse.
 Under the Now Playing tab (pictured above), Pandora will play music tailored to your tastes and based on tracks and artists you’ve already listened to on the platform. You should see a list of “stations” in a section called Tune Your Station.
 These act like filters for the types of music Pandora will curate for you, with options like Discover being particularly good for finding new tunes. The Crowd Faves station is basically a top-hits playlist for the different genres you’re listening to. On any station, you’ll also be able to scroll down to find lyrics for whatever track is currently playing, as well as Pandora’s recommendations for similar-sounding artists.
The My Collection screen on the Pandora desktop app.
Michael Bizzaco / Digital Trends The My Collection tab (pictured above) is home to all of the music you’ve “collected” through Pandora, which is broken down into artists, albums, songs, stations, playlists, podcasts, and podcast episodes. There’s also a Recently Played section at the top and a Recommended Stations for You section at the bottom of the page. When you select the Playlist option, you’ll be able to see what playlists you’ve collected, as well as create your own.
Under the Browse tab, Pandora breaks down its entire library into multiple sub-sections, with New Music featured at the very top. Scroll down to find the other categories, which are Trendsetters: Artists on the Rise , Top Artists , Moods and Activities (which are broken up into smaller groupings like Happy and Back to School ), and Top Stations.
 If you find an artist, album, or playlist you like, you can hover over its thumbnail and click Play.
 You can also click the More icon (three dots) to add or remove the music from your Collection, and to share the station with others.
1.
The Browse screen on the Pandora desktop 2.
Creating a playlist on the Pandora desktop app.
When you select an artist, you’ll be taken to the artist’s Pandora page. From here, you’ll be able to play the Pandora station linked to that artist, play the artist’s top songs, and share the page with others. The rest of the dashboard is taken up by categories like Latest Release , Top Songs , Top Albums , an About section, and a Fans Also Like tier for finding similar artists (we found it amusing that The Beatles’ Fans Also Like featured every band member’s solo works, except Ringo).
The Beatles’ artist page on the Pandora desktop app.
Michael Bizzaco / Digital Trends The Pandora desktop app’s UI isn’t great when compared to the super-clean layout and organization of Apple Music and Spotify , and feels a bit clunky and outdated. Also, when we wrote this guide, the search bar function wasn’t working on either the desktop or mobile apps, nor on Pandora’s browser-based player.
As for the iOS layout, it could also be more intuitive. Four main tabs are listed at the bottom of the home screen: For You , My Collection , Search , and Profile.
 The For You page isn’t really curated to your tastes; it’s just a big list of Pandora’s top artists, stations, and playlists, with a few artist and playlist recommendations thrown in for good measure.
My Collection carries over most of the desktop app’s My Collection features but optimizes the controls for display on a phone or tablet.
Image used with permission by copyright holder The Search function is self-explanatory (when it works) and Profile lets you track how many thumbs-ups you’ve given, how many playlists you have, how many followers you have, and who you’re following. You can also tap the gear icon in the top-right corner to access the settings menu, where you’ll be able to link the app to Alexa or an Apple HomePod, adjust notifications, adjust audio quality (more on this below), and more.
We used Pandora’s browser-based player on Safari. It’s essentially the same exact layout as the desktop app, but slower (the Browser tab didn’t even load for us).
What is Pandora’s audio quality like? Decent, friends. Let’s get one thing squared away though: Thou shall not use Pandora for Hi-Res Audio playback, for said platform doesn’t host anything lossless. If you’re the kind of listener who cares about peak audio performance, services like Apple Music, Tidal, Amazon Music , and Qobuz may be a better fit.
This isn’t to say that Pandora’s sound quality is terrible. For the average speaker streamer or headphone wearer, Pandora’s AAC+ and MP3-powered performance will be just fine; although you’ll be capped at certain bit rates depending on what plan you’re subscribed to.
For free listeners, the quality is 64Kbps AAC+ with no adjustments. Pandora Plus and Premium subscribers can choose between Low (32Kbps AAC+), Standard (64Kbps AAC+), and High (192Kbps MP3) settings for streams.
How do you download music from Pandora? Offline listening is available for all paid Pandora subscriptions, but can only be accessed through the iOS and Android app. This isn’t great, because competitors like Qobuz allow you to download the tracks directly to your PC, which you can then upload to any device you want (as long as that device is compatible).
To download a track on Pandora, all you have to do is tap the name of the song or album you want to grab, then tap the More icon on the next screen. Tap Download and the process is complete (a green arrow emblem will appear next to the downloaded content). Now when all the world’s cellular data is devoured by an apocalyptic black hole, you’ll still be able to listen to M ambo No. 5 , just as long as your phone is charged.
How can you listen to Pandora? Amazon Pandora is available as a desktop app for Windows and macOS , and as a mobile app for iOS and Android devices. You’ll also be able to download the Pandora app for Fire OS devices (like the Amazon Fire TV Stick 4K Max ) and for the Google TV OS, which can be found on a number of Sony, Hisense, and TCL TVs , as well as the Chromecast with Google TV (4K) and Chrome with Google TV (HD) streaming devices.
What is Pandora missing? As mentioned, if you’re looking for a music-streaming platform that puts a big emphasis on Hi-Res Audio, Pandora isn’t the way to go. With streams topping out at 192Kbps in MP3 format, pretty much any other platform is going to give you better audio quality. And if you’re looking to get into Hi-Res FLAC territory, you should definitely opt for something like Qobuz or Tidal.
Video content is becoming a bit more prevalent on music streamers today, but Pandora is one of a few platforms that has yet to offer any such media. You will have access to song lyrics and Pandora-authored write-ups on certain albums and artists. And if you want to upload your offline downloads to any compatible device, unfortunately, Pandora only allows downloads directly to your mobile device.
Above all though, Pandora’s most major miss is its user interface for every version of the app and for the browser-based player. A little fine-tuning would go a long way, and while the platform isn’t impossible to navigate, the overall layout could do with some cleanup and organization. They should also fix that search bar.
Editors' Recommendations Got a PS5? Here’s how to get 6 free months of Apple Music What is DirecTV Stream: plans, pricing, channels, and more How much is Apple Music, and how can you get it for free? What is a network music streamer and why do you need one? Apple TV+ and other Apple One services get a price hike Apple Music Streaming Services Sci-Fi Spotify Audio / Video Spotify has over 220 million subscribers and access to an immense library of artists, albums, podcasts, and audiobooks. A go-to music-streaming platform, Spotify is available on just about every desktop and mobile device one can think of. While it's a phenomenal way to enjoy your favorite tunes, it's certainly not the only music streamer in town. In fact, if you're committed to listening to only the best-sounding audio, Tidal may be a better fit. With its emphasis on hi-res content, Tidal is also home to a giant archive of music and video content.
But is one of these music streaming platforms truly the better of the two? To find out, we compared Spotify and Tidal, focusing on criteria like price, sound quality, and supported devices.
Price Audio / Video Spotify is the first name that comes to mind when you think of music-streaming apps. Love it or hate it, Spotify is currently the most popular music-streaming service, boasting 551 million users and more than 220 million subscribers, putting it ahead of competitors like Apple Music. But what exactly is Spotify, and how does it really work? We're answering all your questions with this deep dive into what you can expect from Spotify.
What is Spotify? If you spend even a little time online, you've probably heard of Spotify. It's a popular free and paid music-streaming service founded in Stockholm in 2006 by Swedish friends Daniel Ek and Martin Lorentzon. Fun fact: the name happened by fluke when the partners were shouting names back and forth from different rooms in Ek's Stockholm flat, and Ek misheard one of Lorentzon's suggestions as "Spotify." They later backtracked the meaning as a combination of spot and identify, and there you have it.
Spotify today is a behemoth of a streaming service that also offers access to podcasts, videos, and highly tailored playlists driven by your unique usage. With several plan tiers to choose from, Spotify's free version lets you listen to unlimited music, podcasts, and even videos, so you can explore your taste without shelling out a thing, but you do have to endure ads and limited functionality (more on that below). It does offer much more robust paid options (more below, too), but the free version is more than enough for the casual listener.
Spotify is also quite device-versatile, so you can use it on your smartphone, tablet, computer, laptop, TV, smartwatch, gaming console, and even in your car. You get the expected, intuitive controls like play/pause, next/previous, loop a song/playlist, and save favorites. But that's not all. There's a lot that Spotify offers, so let's break down what you can look forward to.
Spotify features: music, podcasts, and more Audio / Video Some audiophiles may argue that there’s no better sound quality than that achieved by physical media (and in many cases, they’re correct), but not all of us can afford the turntables, amplifiers, hi-fi speakers, and towering vinyl record and CD collections that go into a connoisseur’s setup. But thanks to music-streaming platforms like Qobuz, we can all listen to ultra-high-quality audio, and for a price that doesn’t keep us up at night.
Here’s everything you need to know about one of the coolest music-streaming platforms in town. Just don’t tell your vinyl-collecting diehard pals you read this guide.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
