Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix F1 Live Stream Stranger Things Season 5 Best New Movies Most Popular Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney+ UFC Live Stream Best Movies on Disney+ Home Entertainment Guides 10 biggest sci-fi hits of all time, ranked by adjusted box-office gross By Carson Burton Close Thanks to Box Office Mojo , fans can see exactly how their favorite movies’ box office numbers translate to the current dollar value. Since some of the most notable sci-fi movies came out decades ago, their listed gross numbers can be a bit misleading. For example, George Lucas’ landmark achievement Star Wars was released in 1977. Due to inflation since then, the buying power of $1 in 1977 is equal to about $5.25 in 2023. That’s a significant difference! 10. Ghostbusters (1984): $667,872,049 9. Jurassic World (2015): $719,633,803 8. Star Wars: Episode I – The Phantom Menace (1999): $846,224,377 7. Jurassic Park (1993): $860,163,189 6. Star Wars: Episode VI – Return of the Jedi (1983): $881,336,578 5. Avatar (2009): $911,790,952 4. Star Wars: Episode V – The Empire Strikes Back (1980): $920,818,947 3. Star Wars: Episode VII – The Force Awakens (2015): $1,013,038,487 2. E.T. the Extra-Terrestrial (1982): $1,329,174,791 1. Star Wars: Episode IV – A New Hope (1977): $1,668,979,715 The biggest domestic sci-fi hits of all time when adjusted by box-office gross reveal how a few franchises have a viselike hold on the genre. Here are the top 10 sci-fi hits of all time when adjusted for inflation based on the 2022 ticket price.
10. Ghostbusters (1984): $667,872,049 Columbia Pictures Who you gonna call? As wonderful and playful as the theme song that every cinephile knows by heart, 1984’s Ghostbusters is a hilarious sci-fi trip featuring some of the funniest comedic minds of the generation. Starring Bill Murray, Harold Ramis, and Dan Aykroyd, Ghostbusters asks: What if the supernatural were real? Wouldn’t we need some people to take care of these ghosts? Well, that’s why we have the Ghostbusters.
7 worst sci-fi movie endings of all time 3 underrated sci-fi movies on Amazon Freevee you should watch in November 5 best sci-fi movies from the past 5 years you should watch right now The stars play a trio of scientists who utilize high-tech gadgets to capture New York City’s supernatural beings, varying from annoying blob monsters to truly terrifying evils.
 When the Ghostbusters stumble upon a gateway to another dimension, these disgraced scientists must now save New York from complete destruction.
Ghostbusters — which has now spawned three more films, as well as TV shows, comics, and video games — is an iconic classic. Directed by Ivan Reitman, Ghostbusters is as hilarious as it is sheer good fun.
9. Jurassic World (2015): $719,633,803 Universal Pictures Finally, the park is open. In 2015, Jurassic World showed audiences what a fully realized dinosaur theme park might look like, terror and death included. Starring Chris Pratt and Bryce Dallas Howard, Jurassic World brought the wonder of dinosaurs to a new generation. The film sees the park in full operation, but a genetic experiment on a new kind of dinosaur leads to havoc. The Indominus Rex, a vicious and highly intelligent beast created by Jurassic World scientists, escapes and sets off a chain reaction of failures across the park.
With hundreds of tourists dead, it’s up to Pratt’s Owen Grady and Howard’s Claire Dearing to restore order. The movie is largely a reprise of 1993’s Jurassic Park , but it’s still a highly effective sci-fi flick.
 With inventive narrative turns and fun worldbuilding, Jurassic World makes for a great movie night.
8. Star Wars: Episode I – The Phantom Menace (1999): $846,224,377 Lucasfilms One of the more maligned movies in the Star Wars franchise, the 1999 film Star Wars: Episode I – The Phantom Menace kicked off the prequel trilogy that would focus largely on Anakin Skywalker’s descent into the all-powerful Sith lord Darth Vader.
The Phantom Menace introduces fans to young versions of some favorite characters from the original trilogy, including Obi-Wan Kenobi and, of course, Anakin Skywalker.
The movie follows young apprentice Obi-Wan and his legendary Jedi master Qui-Gon Jinn (Liam Neeson) as they restore order across the galaxy and encounter a 9-year-old boy who has the potential to bring balance to the Force. While The Phantom Menace is a deeply flawed movie consisting mostly of exposition, there are some fun moments for fans of the franchise. The final battle with Darth Maul is one of the best lightsaber fights in the IP’s history, and Jar Jar Binks will always make for a great meme.
7. Jurassic Park (1993): $860,163,189 Universal Pictures / Universal Pictures Jurassic Park won’t be the only Steven Spielberg movie on this list, but it might just be his most influential. The 1993 film is a classic, delightfully showcasing Spielberg’s impressive direction and storytelling chops. When paleontologists Alan Grant (Sam Neill) and Ellie Sattler (Laura Dern) and mathematician Ian Malcolm (Jeff Goldblum) tour an island theme park populated by dinosaurs created from prehistoric DNA, things take a turn for the worst.
There’s not much to be said about Jurassic Park that hasn’t already been said before; it is amongthe finest pieces of blockbuster American cinema, a film that simultaneously evokes childlike awe and blood-curdling terror.
6. Star Wars: Episode VI – Return of the Jedi (1983): $881,336,578 Lucasfilm The end of George Lucas’ first Star Wars trilogy happens to be the least-highest grossing of the bunch, but that doesn’t truly reflect its quality. The original trilogy will always be revered and remembered for its genre-defining worldbuilding, and Return of the Jedi does not disappoint as a conclusion.
Return of the Jedi sees Luke Skywalker (Mark Hamill) and the Rebel Alliance in a state of disarray after the events of The Empire Strikes Back.
 Now, Luke must save Han Solo (Harrison Ford) and bring balance to the Force by defeating the evil Emperor Palpatine.
Return of the Jedi is a beautiful and effective conclusion to an amazing sci-fi trilogy, bringing a number of arcs and narrative threads to a satisfying end.
5. Avatar (2009): $911,790,952 20th Century Studios As visually stunning as it is narratively complex, James Cameron’s 2009 smash-hit Avatar is massive in every sense of the word. Set in the future on a lush planet called Pandora, the movie follows paralyzed former marine Jake Sully (Sam Worthington) as his entire life is turned upside down when he encounters the planet’s native peoples, the Na’vi. Jake, who inhabits a Na’vi body to allow for free movement on Pandora, learns about and comes to care deeply about the highly evolved species. His human counterparts, though, only desire conquest.
As Jake’s bond with the Na’vi, particularly Neytiri (Zoe Saldana), grows, he is drawn into a battle for the survival of Pandora. The movie is rightfully adored for its visual accomplishment; Cameron and the VFX team changed cinema with the lush, lifelike wonders of Pandora. However, the film is also an astounding piece of science fiction cinema, one in which Cameron’s ideals on environmentalism and treatment toward native peoples are as loud as the banshees that the Na’vi warriors ride into battle.
4. Star Wars: Episode V – The Empire Strikes Back (1980): $920,818,947 Lucasfilm Star Wars: Episode V – The Empire Strikes Back might just be the best movie of the series. In fact, it might even be one of the greatest sci-fi blockbusters ever made. The highly anticipated follow-up to 1977’s A New Hope is one of the greatest sequel movies ever made. Instead of furthering the successes of our protagonists, it thrusts them backwards.
Everything in Empire Strikes Back seems to be throwing the Rebel Alliance into chaos and, by the end, fans are left in shock. Han Solo is frozen in carbonite, and Luke loses his arm in a battle with Darth Vader. It’s also impossible to not mention the galaxy-shattering twist that comes in this movie’s final act. The words “I am your father” will forever be enshrined in Hollywood history thanks to Empire Strikes Back.
3. Star Wars: Episode VII – The Force Awakens (2015): $1,013,038,487 Another Star Wars movie, another era of Jedi. It’s hard to underestimate the hype and anticipation around 2015’s The Force Awakens as it was a cultural centerpiece. After 10 years with no new Star Wars movies, The Force Awakens looked to move the franchise’s story into a new era. The film, the first of the franchise’s three sequel films, introduces fans to Daisy Ridley’s Rey, a Force-sensitive woman from the sands of Jakku. Set 30 years after the Battle of Endor, the First Order has risen from the fallen Galactic Empire and seeks to end the New Republic.
The Resistance, led by Leia Organa (Carrie Fisher), seeks to end the First Order before it unleashes a planet-destroying weapon much more powerful than the Death Star.
The Force Awakens isn’t the best Star Wars film, but it’s an inoffensive and largely satisfying reintroduction to the Star Wars universe. Outfitted with a new lineup of heroes and villains alike, The Force Awakens reestablished Star Wars as the Mount Everest of science fiction.
2. E.T. the Extra-Terrestrial (1982): $1,329,174,791 Universal Pictures Steven Spielberg really knows how to make an effective, crowd-pleasing, and wildly successful science fiction film.
E.T. The Extra-Terrestrial follows a young boy named Elliott after he discovers and befriends a gentle alien that is stranded on Earth. Elliott cares for E.T. as if he were his own sibling, bringing the extraterrestrial into his suburban California house.
When E.T. begins to fall sick, Elliott and his family must find a way for E.T. to go home. The movie is a heartfelt, wonderful portrait of love, family, and home. Born out of Spielberg’s own experiences with his parent’s divorce, E.T. The Extra-Terrestrial shows that not all sci-fi has to be laser blasters and spaceship battles.
1. Star Wars: Episode IV – A New Hope (1977): $1,668,979,715 Image via LucasfIlm The movie that started it all, 1977’s Star Wars is likely the most influential movie on this entire list. From the mind of director George Lucas comes this indelible space opera set a long time ago in a galaxy far, far away. The Galactic Empire, a cruel government that quells its foes with deadly force, is led by evil Sith lords who tap into the dark side of the Force to grant themselves horrible, yet immensely powerful abilities.
The Rebel Alliance, a resistance group, seeks to destroy the Empire. Enter Luke Skywalker, a young man with a powerful tie to the Force. Luke — with help from Han Solo, Princess Leia, Chewbacca, R2-D2, and C-3PO — hones his Force abilities to help the Rebels in their fight against Darth Vader and Emperor Palpatine.
A New Hope is a dense, beautiful artifact of American cinema that holds up to intense scrutiny from the modern eye. It’s a classic, one that forever changed the science fiction genre.
Editors' Recommendations The 10 best characters in the Hunger Games movies, ranked 7 best sci-fi movie actors The best sci-fi movies on Max right now 7 coolest sci-fi future dystopias, ranked 7 biggest horror movie bombs of all time, ranked by adjusted box office losses Sci-Fi Star Wars Entertainment The turn of the calendar brings a fresh selection of movies to Netflix. Many of these films end up on Netflix’s 10 most popular movies shortly after their arrival. Sci-fi films, in particular, have done well on the service, with recent additions Dredd and Arrival occupying spots in the top 10.
Below, we curated a list of five sci-fi movies on Netflix to watch in October. The list includes Dune, the 2021 sci-fi epic from Denis Villeneuve; Bird Box, the 2018 dystopian thriller that became a global phenomenon; and War of the Worlds, the action thriller based on one of the most influential sci-fi novels.
Dune (2021) Entertainment Amazon Freevee is a service you can watch even without an Amazon Prime subscription. It’s totally free but with ads between movies and TV show episodes. That’s a small price to pay for being able to watch so much great content.
Sci-fi is the type of genre that often touches on other genres, like drama, comedy, action, and psychological horror. You can check out the best sci-fi movies on Amazon Prime Video. But the selection of content on Amazon Freevee, including sci-fi movies, is worth exploring, too. If sci-fi is what you’re in the mood for right now, we have put together this list of 3 underrated sci-fi movies on Amazon Freevee you should watch in October. You might never even have heard of these films before, but you’ll find them intriguing, entertaining, and thought-provoking.
Triangle Triangle - Trailer Entertainment Time and time again, moviegoers continue to prove that they will head to the theaters for horror movies. Horror remains the safest bet at an unpredictable box office. In fact, 2023 has already spawned multiple horror hits at the box office, including Scream VI, ME3Gan, Insidious: The Red Door, and The Nun II.
The biggest horror hits of all time range from popular summer blockbusters and horror comedies to supernatural adventures and paranormal sagas. Below, we have listed the seven biggest horror hits of all time at the domestic box office (the film' grosses have been adjusted for inflation based on a 2022 ticket price). All figures are courtesy of Box Office Mojo.
7. Signs (2002) - $367,618,832 Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
