Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix F1 Live Stream Stranger Things Season 5 Best New Movies Most Popular Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney+ UFC Live Stream Best Movies on Disney+ Home Entertainment Guides Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? 3 action movies on Hulu you need to watch in September By Blair Marnell Close Hulu may be controlled by Disney, but it has many of the decidedly non-Disney films from 20th Century Studios that make it an ideal streamer for action fans. If you’re looking for R-rated thrills or action flicks that don’t hold back, Hulu is one of your superior options. In addition to the movies from the classic Fox catalog, Hulu also borrows a few titles from other studios to shore up its library. And action is by far one of the most well-represented genres on Hulu.
True Lies (1994) Aliens (1986) Kick-Ass (2010) Our selections for the three action movies on Hulu that you need to watch on Hulu are very James Cameron-heavy since he directed two out of the three choices. But considering how great Cameron is with action, these were pretty easy picks to make. However, you may want to move fast on these since two of these films are leaving Hulu on September 30.
True Lies (1994) 20th Century Studios Surprisingly, James Cameron has only directed one action comedy in his entire career: True Lies.
 For this flick, Cameron reunited with Terminator star Arnold Schwarzenegger, and he gave Halloween veteran Jamie Lee Curtis the film’s second leading role. Harry Tasker (Schwarzenegger) and his wife, Helen (Curtis), hit a rough spot in their marriage because he’s always away from home for work. What Helen doesn’t know is that Harry is secretly a spy, and his double life is about to come back to haunt both of them.
5 bad 2000s action movies that you still need to watch right now 3 action movies on Netflix you need to watch in November 5 sci-fi movies on Netflix you need to watch in November Once the truth comes out, Harry and Helen have to unite to save their daughter, Dana (played by future Buffy the Vampire Slayer standout Eliza Dushku), from the terrorist Salim Abu Aziz (Art Malik). Cameron and company did such a great job in this film that it’s shocking a sequel never happened.
Watch True Lies on Hulu.
Aliens (1986) 20th Century Studios To date, there have been five Alien sequels and two spinoff Alien vs. Predator films. But none of the other sequels or spinoffs have come anywhere close to the quality of James Cameron’s Aliens.
 In this superlative sequel, Sigourney Weaver reprises her role as Ellen Ripley, who despairs when she learns that she spent decades in hibernation and missed her daughter’s life after the events of the first film. But because of Ripley’s experience with the Xenomorph aliens, she is recruited for a mission to the colony LV-426.
Unfortunately for Ripley and the Colonial Marines, the colony has already been overrun by Xenomorphs by the time they get there. The lone survivor is a girl named Rebecca “Newt” Jorden (Carrie Henn), whom Ripley comes to see as a surrogate daughter. But getting off the planet alive is a tall task, even for Ripley. This film is leaving Hulu on September 30, so catch it while you can.
Watch Aliens on Hulu.
Kick-Ass (2010) Universal Pictures / Universal While Kick-Ass is supposed to be Aaron Taylor-Johnson’s starring vehicle, Chloë Grace Moretz steals the entire movie as the hilariously profane and extremely violent Hit-Girl. In this adaptation of the Mark Millar and John Romita Jr. comic, Johnson’s Dave Lizewski is a teenage loser who really wants to be a superhero, even though he has no powers and he doesn’t really have any fighting skills to speak about. He’s just got a knack for absorbing a ton of physical punishment.
Hit-Girl and her father, Big Daddy (Nicolas Cage), are the real deal, and they’re the ones who draw the attention of mob boss Frank D’Amico (Mark Strong). Frank’s son, Chris D’Amico (Christopher Mintz-Plasse), goes undercover as a superhero named Red Mist to lure Hit-Girl and Big Daddy into a trap. What Red Mist didn’t expect is that he comes to genuinely like Kick-Ass, even though he has to betray him. But hurt feelings don’t get in the way of the brutal action that follows. Catch this one before it leaves Hulu at the end of the month.
Watch Kick-Ass on Hulu.
Editors' Recommendations 3 movies and TV shows like the hit Max series Julia you should watch right now 3 sci-fi movies on Paramount+ you need to watch in November 3 sci-fi movies on Peacock you need to watch in November 3 sci-fi movies on Hulu you need to watch in November 3 action movies on Prime Video you need to watch in November Hulu Sci-Fi Streaming Services Entertainment If you're coming to Hulu for your action fix, then you've come to the right place. Hulu may be owned and operated by Disney, but this streaming service is about as far from the Mickey Mouse Club as you can get. Hulu has all of the R-rated action flicks that just wouldn't fit in at Disney+, Deadpool movies and Logan notwithstanding.
This month, two of our action picks are based on comic books, while the third is an all-timer in the action genre that won't be hanging around on Hulu for much longer. These are the three action movies on Hulu that you need to watch in November.
Blade II (2001) Entertainment Much like romance itself, finding rom-coms on Hulu is a lot harder than it should be. Disney's mature streamer is pretty good about telling us what's new on Hulu, but less so when it comes to rom-coms in specific. Romantic drama films get their own category in Hulu's search engine, but rom-coms do not.
Fortunately, it's not impossible to find a good romantic comedy or three on Hulu. This month, our picks include Adam Sandler's best rom-com, a modern take on a conventional office romance, and an independent film with a cast to die for. These are the three rom-coms on Hulu that you need to watch in November.
The Wedding Singer (1998) Entertainment It's not revelatory to say that the horror genre is currently undergoing a renaissance. In 2023 alone, there have been instant cult classics like Skinamarink and Cobweb, big hits like M3GAN and Scream VI, and memorable foreign entries like When Evil Lurks that have all contributed to the increased popularity of the genre. Hell, even misfires like The Last Voyage of the Demeter are more interesting than usual, and showcase an ambition and creativity that was largely lacking in horror movies from a decade ago.
INSIDIOUS: THE RED DOOR – Official Trailer (HD) Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
