Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix F1 Live Stream Stranger Things Season 5 Best New Movies Most Popular Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney+ UFC Live Stream Best Movies on Disney+ Home Entertainment Guides 10 best film bloopers you have to watch right now By Joe Allen Close One of the joys of great movies is that everything feels perfect and exact. Nothing is there by mistake, and that’s a large part of what makes them feel so great. Even people making great movies make mistakes, though, which is why blooper reels can spark so much joy.
Anchorman 2: The Legend Continues (2013) Liar Liar (1997) The Descent (2005) The Silence of the Lambs (1991) Star Wars: Episode I – The Phantom Menace (1999) Monsters, Inc. (2001) Step Brothers (2009) Young Frankenstein (1974) Bridesmaids (2011) Superbad (2007) Whether the movie the blooper is related to is good or not, a great film blooper can humanize a film’s stars, and remind us all that making a movie is a job just like any other. Sometimes something falls over, someone forgets a line, or something else goes wrong. In honor of those moments, these are the 10 greatest film bloopers of all time.
Anchorman 2: The Legend Continues (2013) Because so much of The Legend Continues was totally improvised, the gag reel features loads of great jokes that didn’t make the final cut. On top of that, the movie also features plenty of moments where it’s clear that the actors are well aware of how funny what they’re saying is, and are struggling to keep it together.
5 bad 2000s action movies that you still need to watch right now The 50 best movies on Netflix right now (November 2023) The best Black movies on Netflix right now This gag reel is great from front to back, and that’s in large part because the people making the movie are some of the funniest folks working in comedy today.
Liar Liar (1997) Thanks to Jim Carrey’s remarkable face, any one of his movies could earn a spot on this list. While there’s no single blooper here that stands above the rest, the combined impact of the Liar Liar blooper reel serves as a reminder that Carrey might be the funniest man to ever live.
The faces are one of the main attractions here, but they’re not the only thing worth emphasizing. There are plenty of line flubs as well, but also delightful moments when Carrey goes totally off script, and completely shocks his castmates as a result.
The Descent (2005) A crucial reminder that people can have fun even when they’re making one of the scariest movies of all time, The Descent ‘s bloopers feature the cast having just a delightful time, even while they’re covered in all kinds of fake blood and mud.
There’s one particularly great gag where someone spots an exit sign at one of their filming locations and realizes that it could be their salvation. The entire reel is great, though, and it also features a crawler (one of the film’s monsters) doing some Gene Kelly-style business with a broom in a full-body green suit.
The Silence of the Lambs (1991) This gag reel is short and to the point, but it’s another reminder of how much fun a cast and crew can get up to, even when they’re making something that becomes a masterpiece.
Perhaps the best moment here comes when Jodi Foster holds her gun up and says, “Freeze! Put your hands on your hips!” but there’s also a great moment featuring a struggle to put some rubber gloves on, as well as one that gives you a sense of just how much Anthony Hopkins enjoyed playing the embodiment of pure evil.
The Silence of the Lambs is a masterpiece, and as it turns out, so are its outtakes.
Star Wars: Episode I – The Phantom Menace (1999) The decision to shoot almost all of The Phantom Menace on green screens may not have worked out all that well for the film itself, but it certainly helped the blooper reel. Here, we get great moments like when R2-D2 tumbles completely over, as well as the usual line flubs that are a part of any great blooper reel.
What makes The Phantom Menace ‘s reel so great, though, is that it’s a reminder that the bigger the scale and scope of your movie is, the harder it’s ultimately going to be to pull it all off perfectly.
Monsters, Inc. (2001) You might think that it would be difficult for an animated movie to get in on the fun of bloopers, but one of the great things about early Pixar is that it would often animate takes where the actors messed up a line or were goofing off with one another.
These animated bloopers prove to be just as endearing as the real thing, and also serve as a firm reminder that there are real people voicing these cartoon characters.
Step Brothers (2009) It might seem foolish to stick two collaborations between Adam McKay and Will Ferrell on a single list, but the results speak for themselves. The final version of Step Brothers is one of the funniest movies ever made, and it turns out that the outtakes are just as hilarious.
Look for plenty of improv from Ferrell and John C. Reilly, plus moments when both of them break, as we see that even they couldn’t always resist the sheer comedic power of the movie they were making.
Young Frankenstein (1974) Another comedy that deserves a spot in the pantheon of all-time greats, Young Frankenstein is one of the funniest movies ever made, and its gag reel is filled with moments where even the ultra-professional Gene Wilder seems to understand just how hilarious everything around him is.
The reel is a humanizing look at one of the funniest actors of his generation, but it’s also got plenty of laughs from beginning to end for any devoted Mel Brooks fan to enjoy.
Bridesmaids (2011) Given the fact that the cast of Bridesmaids , one of Netflix’s most popular comedies , includes roughly half of the great female comedians working today, it shouldn’t come as a huge surprise that they got into some nonsense while filming the movie.
This gag reel features the normal bits of silliness, as well as a reminder of just how difficult everyone found acting serious to be around Melissa McCarthy’s performance. There’s a reason she was nominated for an Oscar, and it’s in part because she was so funny that she even kept her co-stars from completing takes.
Superbad (2007) Anyone who has watched a single Stefon segment on Saturday Night Live is likely aware that Bill Hader has a little bit of trouble with breaking.
The moments when he breaks in the Superbad gag reel are some of the funniest in the movie, but there areother highlights as well, including plenty of great stuff from leads Michael Cera and Jonah Hill.
Superbad is a legendary comedy, and its outtakes are just as good as the finished product.
Editors' Recommendations 3 movies and TV shows like the hit Max series Julia you should watch right now The 10 most popular shows on Max right now 5 best death game movies you should watch right now The 10 most popular TV shows on Netflix right now The 10 most popular movies on Netflix right now Sci-Fi Star Wars Entertainment The end of the year is almost here: can you believe it’s almost 2024? As you wind things down at work, take time off to enjoy with the family, and relax, it’s the perfect time to curl up with a great show. There are plenty of new and returning shows this month that are available through all the top streaming services. Browse this list and you’re bound to find a few worth adding to your nightly viewing selection.
There’s everything from dramas to comedies, a British heist series, a Canadian gem, and the end of a royal era. Have a look at these six shows you need to watch in December and pick the ones you want to dive into before the year is over.
Slow Horses season 3 (December 1) Slow Horses — Season 2 Official Trailer | Apple TV+ Entertainment The best stand-up comedy on Netflix right now is both current with the times and as old as the genre itself. Pete Holmes and Beth Stelling are among the new additions to the streaming service -- the latter is definitely a comedian worth getting to know. Additionally, classic sets from the likes of Ali Wong, Dave Chappelle, John Mulaney, and more are available at the touch of a button.
With new movies and shows coming to Netflix all the time, the stand-up comedy selection is always growing. We've parsed through the details and pulled out the best stand-up comedy on Netflix right now.
Looking for something else? We've also rounded up the best movies on Netflix, the best movies on Hulu, the best movies on Amazon Prime, and the best movies on Disney+. For Netflix fans, check out the 10 most popular shows on Netflix right now.
Pete Holmes: I Am Not for Everyone (2023) new Entertainment Comedy is not the box office force that it once was, and a lot of comedies now skip theaters entirely before going direct to streaming. That's unfortunate because laughing in a crowded theater during a comedy can be a cathartic experience. And as far as we're concerned, the genre's best days are still in front of it because some of the best comedies from the last half-decade more than hold their own against classics from the '80s, '90s, and the 21st century.
When compiling this list of the five great comedies from the past five years, we stuck with a strict release window between 2018 and 2023 for every film from either theatrical or streaming. Surprisingly, none of the movies from 2020 or 2021 made the cut for us. But after giving each movie due consideration, we feel that these five films will be the ones that withstand the test of time.
No Hard Feelings (2023) Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
