Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix F1 Live Stream Stranger Things Season 5 Best New Movies Most Popular Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney+ UFC Live Stream Best Movies on Disney+ Home Entertainment Guides The best Star Wars shows on Disney+ By Jason Struss and Blair Marnell Close Disney+ began with a promise that the much-hyped Disney streaming service meant that multiple Star Wars live-action series could finally be made. It took a few years after the 2019 premiere of The Mandalorian , but we’re finally at a point where we can make an actual list of the best Star Wars shows on Disney+. In fact, the live-action series are almost as numerous as the animated shows like Star Wars: The Clone Wars and Star Wars Rebels that kept the franchise going between the films.
Ahsoka is the latest Star Wars series to join Disney+, and it serves as a bridge between the animated programs and the live-action shows that may carry the franchise back to the big screen.
Ahsoka is not as gritty or political as Andor , but there’s a lot to like. If you’re new to the franchise or a Star Wars veteran who just wants to know where to catch up on your favorite space opera, we’ve put together this guide to the best Star Wars shows on Disney+. May the Force be with you when streaming! Ahsoka (2023) new tv-14 1 Season Sci-Fi & Fantasy, Action & Adventure Rosario Dawson, Natasha Liu Bordizzo, Mary Elizabeth Winstead Dave Filoni watch on Disney+ watch on Disney+ Ahsoka is the spiritual sequel to Star Wars: The Clone Wars and Star Wars Rebels , as well as a test drive for series creator and director Dave Filoni before he helms his own Star Wars movie within the next few years. Rosario Dawson reprises her role as former Jedi Ahsoka Tano from her guest appearance during The Mandalorian season 2. And it seems like Ahsoka has her hands full with the potential return of Grand Admiral Thrawn (Lars Mikkelsen), as well as a fallen Jedi, Baylan Skoll (Ray Stevenson), whose fighting skills far surpass her own.
Preventing Thrawn’s comeback isn’t the only thing on Ahsoka’s agenda, as her former apprentice, Sabine Wren (Natasha Liu Bordizzo), joins her quest to rescue their long-missing friend, Ezra Bridger (Eman Esfandi). Theoretically, they will find Ezra when they catch up with Thrawn. But will a happy reunion be in the cards? Read less Save on everything from laptops and tablets, to coffee makers and air purifiers, and a whole host of Apple tech like iPad, Apple Watch and even the latest M3 MacBooks, as well as smart home essentials like the Amazon Echo and smart bulbs.
Star Wars: Visions (2021) tv-pg 2 Seasons Animation, Sci-Fi & Fantasy, Action & Adventure watch on Disney+ watch on Disney+ Lucasfilm delivered a new spin on Star Wars with this anime anthology series that includes nine short films produced by Japanese animation studios and inspired by the beloved sci-fi saga set in a galaxy far, far away. Set throughout the Star Wars timeline — and in some cases, outside of it — the films filter the franchise through a fresh lens that also offers some fascinating new stories voiced by an all-star cast of actors.
Among the highlights in Star Wars: Visions are the Akira Kurosawa-inspired tale The Duel , and the surprising, post- Rise of Skywalker story told in The Ninth Jedi , among other great episodes. A second volume just hit the streamer with all-new tales from such highly regarded animation studios as Aardman, PunkRobot, and Cartoon Saloon.
Read less The Mandalorian (2019) tv-14 3 Seasons Sci-Fi & Fantasy, Action & Adventure, Drama Pedro Pascal Jon Favreau watch on Disney+ watch on Disney+ The blockbuster series that helped Disney+ take the lead in the “streaming wars,” Lucasfilm’s The Mandalorian returns after a two-year hiatus (although the character made an appearance in The Book of Boba Fett ).
The journeys of the Mandalorian through the Star Wars galaxy continue in season 3, which promises more action, more Darksaber fights, and more Grogu! Once a lone bounty hunter, Din Djarin has reunited with Grogu after last season’s finale. Meanwhile, the New Republic struggles to lead the galaxy away from its dark history. Future episodes promise that the Mandalorian will cross paths with old allies and make new enemies as he and Grogu continue their journey together to strange new worlds like Mandalore.
Read less Star Wars: Andor (2022) tv-14 1 Season Sci-Fi & Fantasy, Action & Adventure, War & Politics Diego Luna, Stellan Skarsgård, Kyle Soller Tony Gilroy watch on Disney+ watch on Disney+ Read less The Book of Boba Fett (2021) tv-14 1 Season Action & Adventure, Sci-Fi & Fantasy Temuera Morrison, Ming-Na Wen Jon Favreau watch on Disney+ watch on Disney+ Despite mostly being a background character for much of the franchise’s existence, Boba Fett has always been one of the most beloved Star Wars characters. Temuera Morrison returned in The Mandalorian season 2 to play the iconic bounty hunter, and he was finally given his own solo series in the form of The Book of Boba Fett.
And while the critical reaction to his story was fairly mixed, The Book of Boba Fett brings to light some long-awaited moments, like how he escaped the Sarlacc from Return of the Jedi.
 If nothing else, the series serves as a decent companion piece to The Mandalorian and will tie into the show’s third season.
Read less Star Wars: Tales of the Jedi (2022) tv-pg 1 Season Animation, Sci-Fi & Fantasy Dave Filoni watch on Disney+ watch on Disney+ Read less Star Wars Rebels (2014) tv-y7 4 Seasons Action & Adventure, Animation Freddie Prinze Jr., Taylor Gray, Vanessa Marshall Simon Kinberg, Dave Filoni, Carrie Beck watch on Disney+ watch on Disney+ Even though it didn’t quite measure up to the highs of The Clone Wars , Rebels still garnered a much-deserved, positive critical reception for continuing the franchise’s success in the realm of animation.
Star Wars Rebels is the natural sequel to The Clone Wars , this time largely following a new main cast of characters.
It begins 14 years into the devastating aftermath of Emperor Palpatine’s Order 66 , with Jedi now endangered and actively hunted down. And while the protagonists are mostly original, it rewards longtime fans with satisfying conclusions to story arcs started in the preceding series, with thrilling appearances by characters from the original trilogy. All four seasons of Star Wars Rebels are available to stream now.
Read less Star Wars: The Clone Wars (2008) tv-pg 7 Seasons Action & Adventure, Animation, Sci-Fi & Fantasy James Arnold Taylor, Corey Burton, Dee Bradley Baker George Lucas watch on Disney+ watch on Disney+ Read less The Bad Batch (2021) tv-pg 1 Season Animation, Sci-Fi & Fantasy, Action & Adventure Dee Bradley Baker, Michelle Ang Dave Filoni watch on Disney+ watch on Disney+ The Star Wars saga continues in this series set after the overlapping events of Episode III — Revenge of the Sith and the animated series Star Wars: The Clone Wars , but before the events of the franchise-spawning Episode IV — A New Hope.
The series follows the members of Clone Force 99, a unique group of clone troopers whose genetic mutations during the cloning process (which earned them the nickname “The Bad Batch”) gave them specialized abilities. First introduced in The Clone Wars , the characters were a hit among Star Wars fans, and The Bad Batch explores what happened to them after the war ended and Order 66 forced many of their fellow clones to kill the Jedi they served alongside.
Read less Editors' Recommendations The best new shows to stream on Netflix, Hulu, Max (HBO), and more The best shows on Disney+ right now (October 2023) The best family movies on Disney+ right now The best sci-fi villains ever, ranked The best Christmas movies on Disney+ right now Best Products Sci-Fi Star Wars Streaming Guides The Mandalorian Movie images and data from: Entertainment If you’re looking for action on Disney+, then you’ve come to the right place. Marvel and Star Wars movies could give you all of the action you would ever need. Fortunately, Disney+ doesn’t stop there, and there are a number of animated and live-action Disney projects which hold up as great action flicks in their own right. For the moment, there are only three R-rated films on Disney+, but the rest are fairly family-friendly. So keep that in mind when making selections from our list of the best action movies on Disney+ right now.
If you like bargains, you should consider the Disney Bundle, which features Disney+, Hulu, and ESPN+ for just $14 a month. That's a really great deal for action movies, especially considering you'll get everything below, as well as all of the great action flicks in Hulu's catalog.
We’ve also rounded up the best action movies on Amazon Prime Video, the best action movies on Hulu, and the best action movies on Netflix if you don't find what you’re looking for on Disney+.
Entertainment Without Marvel, Star Wars, and National Geographic, where would Disney+ be? Those are definitely strong brands, but one of the biggest draws for Disney+ is Disney itself. Next year marks the 100th anniversary of Walt Disney Studios, and the House of Mouse has come a long way in the last century. Disney was the first studio to produce a feature-length animated movie, a tradition that continues to this day. Additionally, Disney has released hundreds of live-action flicks, in addition to branching out into documentaries. Pixar is also at the forefront of Disney, with some of the most dazzling and innovative animated flicks to date. Taken all together, Disney is truly something special. And we celebrate that legacy each month by rounding up the best Disney movies on Disney+.
Editor's note: With Disney owning so many different properties these days, we've excluded newer acquisitions like the Star Wars and Marvel franchises.
Entertainment War is an unfortunate constant presence in our world. That's also why it's such fertile ground for cinema. Movies try to help us understand war, or more grimly, make it look so exciting and important that they desensitize us to its impact. There are heroes and villains, just causes and unjust foes, and many, many perspectives and ways to consider the world that we live in. Hulu's collection of war movies isn't exactly superlative, but we've scoured the coffers and found some good options. So, if you're feeling like some escapist or provocative fun, check out the best war movies on Hulu right now.
Not finding what you're looking for on Hulu? Try our picks for the best war movies on Netflix.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
