Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix F1 Live Stream Stranger Things Season 5 Best New Movies Most Popular Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney+ UFC Live Stream Best Movies on Disney+ Home Entertainment Guides Blade Runner 2049 is back on Max in October. Here’s why you should watch it By Guillermo Kurten Close Ridley Scott’s original Blade Runner proved to be ahead of its time, as the 1982 sci-fi film received retroactive acclaim as the decades passed. Now, Max has just readded the 2017 sequel, Blade Runner 2049 , to its offerings. Denis Villeneuve is among the most talented auteur directors of the modern age, and with critically acclaimed hits like this sequel and Arrival , he’s also proven to have a good eye for the sci-fi genre.
Arguably the best modern cyberpunk film Roger Deakins’ legendary cinematography An honorable follow-up to Ridley Scott’s original cult classic Blade Runner 2049 is an exceptional sequel to the 1980s cult classic movie, honoring what came before while standing proudly on its own merits. Between the jaw-dropping cinematography and the franchise’s vintage brand of slow-burning, yet enticing storytelling, this sci-fi marvel is more than worth checking out on Max.
Arguably the best modern cyberpunk film WB Similar to the fantasy genre, sci-fi is gaining increasing mainstream traction. Fans now live in a filmmaking landscape where Frank Herbert’s Dune received a blockbuster live-action adaptation that actually succeeded both critically and commercially — and was also directed by Villeneuve — but the cyberpunk subgenre is having a tougher time breaking through.
This underrated 2023 horror movie on Netflix deserves more love. Here’s why you should watch it 3 underrated sci-fi movies on Amazon Freevee you should watch in November One of 2023’s best-reviewed movies is now on Netflix. Here’s why you should watch it Blade Runner 2049 helps remedy that, building on what made its direct predecessor so novel for its time. The movie has an impeccable sense of atmosphere, leaning heavily into the gloomy neon elements of its dystopian setting that the 1982 original paved the way with.
Blade Runner 2049 is another convincing showcase of how this franchise is a champion for both the cyberpunk and neo-noir subgenres.
Roger Deakins’ legendary cinematography Warner Bros. Pictures On top of direction, Villeneuve’s movies are also known for their stunning camera work. That’s thanks his collaborations with some of the industry’s greatest cinematographers. For Blade Runner 2049 , the legendary Roger Deakins ( The Shawshank Redemption , Fargo , Skyfall ) lends his talents.
Aside from having a strong and intriguing narrative, cinematography is among the most crucial elements of a cyberpunk movie — or sci-fi in general — as the genre depends on painting a vivid, otherworldly picture of its worlds. Deakins’ work doesn’t disappoint, with many scenes and stills from Blade Runner 2049 being worthy of framing. By taking full advantage of its sweeping, neon-lit, and even hauntingly barren locales to establish a sense of place, Deakins took home the first of his two Oscars for the film.
An honorable follow-up to Ridley Scott’s original cult classic WB While sequels to legacy movies can run the risk of coming off as insincere, Blade Runner 2049 embraces its roots in every way. From the spectacular visuals to the moody, deliberate, and tantalizing plot, this sequel pays proper homage to Ridley Scott’s trailblazer without getting lost in superficial fan service. The world that Blade Runner 2049 depicts feels incredibly immersive and lived-in, emphasizing how it’s a landscape barely clinging to life.
The movie also features a fantastic ensemble cast, spearheaded by Ryan Gosling as the replicant blade runner Officer K in a powerful performance akin to his role in director Nicolas Winding Refn’s Drive.
 Harrison Ford reprises his role as Rick Deckard to similarly commanding effect, but it doesn’t feel like a derivative attempt to cash in on the star’s loyal following. His role brings Deckard’s character arc to a satisfying and bittersweet full circle, but thanks to its organic worldbuilding, Blade Runner 2049 still manages to feel accessible to newcomers as well.
Editors' Recommendations 3 movies and TV shows like the hit Max series Julia you should watch right now 3 underrated 1980s sci-fi TV shows you should watch in November This action war movie is popular on Netflix. Here’s why you should watch it The best sci-fi movies on Max right now Bodies is one of Netflix’s most popular shows right now. Here’s why you should watch it Sci-Fi Entertainment The best sci-fi movies often push the boundaries of what's possible to depict on the big screen by taking on complex fictional concepts that are often rooted in reality. Recent films in the category embrace the intersection between science, philosophy, and humanity, and use mind-blowing visuals and cutting-edge cinematography to bolster filmmakers' ambitious efforts.
From the visually stunning and otherworldly story told in Dune to the mind-bending mix of existentialism and the multiverse in Everything Everywhere All at Once, the greatest science fiction movies from the past five years represent the best that the genre has to offer. With so much to explore in the genre, these are the few standouts that should be considered essential viewing for fans.
Ad Astra (2019) Entertainment Halloween isn't for another week, but Netflix already has another treat for horror lovers. Creature, the new Turkish horror miniseries, has premiered on the 10 most popular shows on Netflix. It stars Taner Ölmez as Ziya, an idealistic young doctor whose determination to defeat death results in the creation of his own Creature (Erkan Kolçak Köstendil).
If you think that sounds like the plot of Mary Shelley's famous novel, Frankenstein, then you're not wrong. Çağan Irmak has put his own personal touches on the story that is at once familiar and different. And we've got three reasons why you should watch Creature this Halloween. We also have a viewing tip: Watch it in the original Turkish language with subtitles. The English dub isn't as convincing as the native tongue from the original.
A fresh coat of paint on a classic tale Entertainment October is winding down, and Huluween is in full swing on Hulu. Halloween just over a week away, and Hulu has the streaming premiere of Cobweb, 2023's most underrated horror movie of the year.
The film was directed by Samuel Bodin from a script by Chris Thomas Devlin. Lizzy Caplan (Cloverfield) and Antony Starr (The Boys) are the most recognizable members of the cast, but the movie largely belongs to Woody Norman, who plays their on-screen son, Peter. It's through Peter's eyes that the audience realizes that something is very off with his parents, Carol (Caplan) and Mark (Starr) -- and that there's something very strange happening in Peter's house.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
