Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix F1 Live Stream Stranger Things Season 5 Best New Movies Most Popular Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney+ UFC Live Stream Best Movies on Disney+ Home Entertainment Guides Like The Creator? Then watch these 5 great sci-fi movies By Carson Burton Close This weekend brings with it a wholly unique sci-fi film from director Gareth Edwards: The Creator , starring John David Washington and Gemma Chan. The highly anticipated movie is exciting for fans of the genre who have been waiting for large-scale sci-fi beauty.
Ex Machina (2014) Rogue One: A Star Wars Story (2016) Arrival (2016) District 9 (2009) Minority Report (2002) Edwards’ new film is set in the future as a war between the human race and artificial intelligence ravages the world. Joshua, an ex-special forces agent, is tasked to hunt down and kill the Creator, the elusive architect of advanced AI. The Creator has reportedly developed a mysterious weapon that has the power to end the war and all of mankind. As Joshua and his team venture into enemy-occupied territory, they discover the world-ending weapon is actually an AI in the form of a child. From there, Joshua engages in a world-changing journey abounding with moral questions.
The Creator , another example of AI gone wrong , pulls on a lot of sci-fi influences. The science fiction genre is vast and dense, and it can be hard to find the exact right movie to satisfy that sci-fi itch. If you’re interested in seeing some sci-fi movies like The Creator , check out these five films.
7 worst sci-fi movie endings of all time 5 sci-fi movies on Netflix you need to watch in November 3 sci-fi movies on Prime Video you need to watch in November Ex Machina (2014) A24 / A24 Alex Garland’s 2015 film Ex Machina is one of the most curious robot movies out there. Similar to The Creator , Ex Machina asks droves of questions pertaining to humanity and its relationship with always-evolving, hyperintelligent technologies. With great performances from its lead actors, Ex Machina is a captivating sci-fi film. It also looks great; it won an Oscar for Best Visual Effects at the 2016 Academy Awards.
Ex Machina follows Caleb Smith (Domhnall Gleeson), a programmer at a huge internet company. Caleb wins a contest that enables him to spend a week at the private estate of his firm’s CEO, Nathan Bateman (Oscar Isaac). Later, Caleb learns that he has been chosen to be the human component in a test to determine the capabilities and consciousness of Ava (Alicia Vikander), a beautiful robot. It soon becomes evident, though, that Ava is far more self-aware and deceptive than previously imagined.
Rogue One: A Star Wars Story (2016) Lucasfilm Star Warsis, no doubt, the largest sci-fi franchise in existence. From record-shattering blockbusters to fan-favorite TV shows, the Lucasfilms and Disney IP has no bounds. In 2016, the franchise took a big swing with Rogue One: A Star Wars Story , which still holds up to this day.
 That big swing was an absolute home run.
The film was the first spinoff film in the Star Wars universe that didn’t directly star a Skywalker or Rey.
Rogue One follows the courageous team of Rebel misfits who retrieved the plans for the Death Star. The movie leads directly into the events of Star Wars: Episode IV – A New Hope and introduces audiences to an entirely new set of characters. The film is a marvel of scale and a welcome twist to the franchise; it’s really as much a spy movie as it is a sci-fi space opera. It’s also directed by Gareth Edwards, the filmmaker behind The Creator.
Rogue One is a fun, moving watch, and it’s a great introduction to Edwards’ sci-fi style.
Arrival (2016) Paramount Pictures Much like The Creator , Denis Villeneuve’s 2016 sci-fi hit Arrival is a marvel for the eyes. The film’s scale and opulent beauty are captured gloriously by Villeneuve, who has proven time and time again that he has a deft hand at creating massive cinematic experiences.
Starring Amy Adams and Jeremy Renner, Arrival follows the story of two scientists as large spacecrafts descend upon Earth. The aliens and their ship are highly advanced, and nobody seems to really know their intention regarding our world. Linguistics professor Louise Banks (Adams) leads a team of investigators as they attempt to communicate with the extraterrestrial creatures, leading to world-shattering revelations. The film, an adaptation of the wonderful short story called Story of Your Life by Ted Chiang, isn’t your average alien invasion movie. It’s ponderings on philosophy, love, and communication are a dense text waiting to be translated. Of course, it’s also a beautiful science fiction film worthy of the biggest screen possible.
District 9 (2009) TriStar Pictures / Sony Pictures Director Neill Blomkamp burst into Hollywood in 2009 with District 9 , the filmmaker’s directorial debut. In District 9 , Blomkamp , who recently directed the 2023 racing biopic Gran Turismo , helms a poignant, yet thrilling action sci-fi movie. The film is beautiful and funky, a wonderful, yet painful journey through a harsh alternate reality. It was even nominated for four Oscars in 2010, including Best Picture and Best Adapted Screenplay.
District 9 is set 30 years after an alien spaceship lands in South Africa, releasing thousands of bug-like alien creatures. The extraterrestrials aren’t here to conquer Earth, though. No, they’re here to escape from their own dying planet. Now separated from humans in a slum-like area called District 9, the aliens are managed by Multi-National United, a company that is entirely unconcerned with the aliens’ welfare, but will do anything to master their advanced technology. When a company field agent, played by Sharlto Copley, contracts a mysterious virus that begins to alter his DNA, he is forced to hide in District 9. The film is a beautiful and thematically dense investigation of invasion, and it firmly solidified Blomkamp as a prestigious voice in Hollywood.
Minority Report (2002) 20th Century Studios Steven Spielberg’s Minority Report is a fantastic science fiction action flick. Spielberg has always had a deft hand at creating tension and holding a viewer’s attention throughout a movie’s runtime, and Minority Report is no different. While Spielberg’s 2002 classic may not have the massive scale of a movie like The Creator , it is a beautiful, fun movie that any sci-fi fan should watch.
Starring Tom Cruise, Minority Report is set in Washington, D.C., circa 2054. In this technologically advanced near future, crime is nearly extinct. Why? The police utilize a psychic technology to arrest and convict murderers and other criminals before the crime itself happens. Cruise plays the head of the Precrime unit, John Anderton, who is forced to go on the run when he is accused of the future murder of a man he has never met. The film is an action-packed 2 hours and 25 minutes featuring wild technologies and constant twists. It’s as much a detective movie as it is a sci-fi movie, but it utilizes its futuristic setting and technology to great effect.
Minority Report is a perfect popcorn flick and a prime example of Spielberg’s talent behind the camera.
Editors' Recommendations The 10 best characters in the Hunger Games movies, ranked 7 best sci-fi movie actors 3 sci-fi movies on Tubi you need to watch in November 3 underrated 1980s sci-fi TV shows you should watch in November 3 underrated sci-fi movies on Amazon Freevee you should watch in November Sci-Fi Star Wars Entertainment With its arrival on Netflix almost a decade after the book became a sensation, All the Light We Cannot See is set to reach an even bigger audience than it already had. If you've already caught the show, though, you might be looking for other meaty historical dramas that are worth your time.
The series, which tells the story of World War II from two distinct perspectives, is fairly unusual, but that doesn't mean there aren't plenty of movies and TV shows that are likely to give you the same feeling.
A Hidden Life (2019) A HIDDEN LIFE | Official Trailer [HD] | FOX Searchlight Entertainment The early box-office numbers for Five Nights at Freddy's are in, and it looks like a major hit for Universal. Despite hitting theaters at the same time that it made its streaming debut on on Peacock, the current projections have this film opening at $73 million for the pre-Halloween weekend.
This suggests that there's been a woefully underserved audience for movies about killer toys and murderous animatronic creatures. However, Five Nights at Freddy's is far from the first film to embrace that premise. Some of the other movies with similar stories are even much better flicks than this one. So, if you've already seen the film in theaters or on Peacock, these are the five movies like Five Nights at Freddy's that you should watch if you're looking for something in that same vein.
Willy’s Wonderland (2021) Entertainment Five Nights at Freddy's | Official Trailer 2 October is supposed to be the best time to watch a scary movie, but that doesn't necessarily mean it's always easy to find exactly what you're looking for. Sometimes, you check out the movies in theaters and then find yourself at a loss when it comes to sorting through your various subscriptions to find something similar.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
