Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix F1 Live Stream Stranger Things Season 5 Best New Movies Most Popular Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney+ UFC Live Stream Best Movies on Disney+ Home Entertainment Guides Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? 10 best sci-fi movies based on Philip K. Dick’s books By Blair Marnell Close Four decades ago, legendary sci-fi novelist Philip K. Dick passed away only a few months before seeing the first cinematic adaptation of his work, Blade Runner , on the big screen. Since then, Dick’s books have proven to be popular among filmmakers who wanted to bring his vision of the future to their sci-fi movies. That’s because many of Dick’s themes were timeless as he explored questions about identity, artificial intelligence, technology, and even the nature of reality itself.
10. Impostor (2002) 9. Paycheck (2003) 8. Next (2007) 7. Screamers (1995) 6. Radio Free Albemuth (2010) 5. The Adjustment Bureau (2011) 4. Minority Report (2002) 3. A Scanner Darkly (2006) 2. Total Recall (1989) 1. Blade Runner (1982) However, not every movie based on a Philip K. Dick book was created equal. And we’ve left Blade Runner 2049 off the list because it was a sequel to the film rather than an adaptation of Dick’s original story. These are the films that stand as Dick’s contributions to cinema. And until some new adaptations come along these are the ten best sci-fi movies based on Philip K. Dick books.
10. Impostor (2002) Dimension Films One thing you’ll find from watching a lot of Dick’s movies is that he really loved to create paranoia among his characters while making them question who and what they really are.
Impostor takes place in a dark future where humanity has barely held off an alien attack, but the enemy can create nearly perfect copies of humans to use as weapons against them.
The 10 best sci-fi movies of the 2000s Spencer (Gary Sinise) and Maya Olham (Madeleine Stowe) are blissfully happy together until Major D.H. Hathaway (Vincent D’Onofrio) accuses Spencer of being an alien duplicate. And despite himself, even Spencer can’t necessarily be sure that he is who he thinks he is. But if he can’t prove that he’s human then Spencer won’t be able to save himself or his wife from Hathaway.
Rent or buy Impostor on Google Play , Prime Video , YouTube , and Apple TV+.
9. Paycheck (2003) Paramount Some of the ideas from Apple TV+ ‘s Severance may have come from Paycheck , particularly the notion about workplaces erasing the memories of their employees. In this film, Michael Jennings (Ben Affleck) takes a lucrative job offer from James Rethrick (Aaron Eckhart), with the catch that after three years, Jennings’ mind will wiped about everything that happened to him while he was employed by the company.
When Jennings finishes up three years later, he’s stunned to learn that he apparently got rid of his stock options and money. Instead, Jennings has left himself clues that Rethrick’s agenda for the world has to be stopped. During his quest to stop Rethrick, Jennings also reunites with Rachael Porter (Uma Thurman), the woman who was his lover during the missing three years of his life.
Rent or buy Paycheck on Google Play , Prime Video , YouTube , and Apple TV+.
8. Next (2007) Paramount You’ll see precognition pop up in more than one of Dick’s stories. For example, Next , which is based on Dick’s The Golden Man , features Nicolas Cage as Cris Johnson, a man who can see into the future…but only two minutes at a time. That may not seem like much, but it’s a gift that proves far too enticing for the government to ignore. That’s why NSA Agent Callie Ferris (Julianne Moore) wants to use Cris’ abilities to neutralize terrorist threats.
But Cris would much rather make time with Elizabeth Cooper (Jessica Biel), a woman who somehow expands the scope of his gift just by being in his life. Unfortunately for the newfound couple, that proximity will soon put Elizabeth in danger and force Cris into action.
Watch Next on Hoopla.
7. Screamers (1995) Triumph Films RoboCop ‘s Peter Weller headlined Screamers , a loose adaptation of Dick’s short story, Second Variety.
 In the future, a mining colony is torn apart by a costly civil war, which leads to the creation of Screamers, robots who are armed with artificial intelligence and deadly weapons that kill any humans they come across if they aren’t wearing a device to deter them.
Realizing that the war can not continue, Commander Joseph A. Hendricksson (Weller) and Private Michael “Ace” Jefferson (Andrew Lauer) accept an invitation to meet with the other side and work out a truce. Much to their horror, they discover that the new model of Screamers has advanced beyond the deterrent devices. And some of them can even pass for human.
Watch Screamers on Prime Video.
6. Radio Free Albemuth (2010) Freestyle Releasing There’s a good chance that you’ll never get to see Radio Free Albemuth , since it wasn’t made by a major studio and it’s currently unavailable in any digital format. This was one of the very last stories that Dick wrote, and it features him as one of the main characters.
Spider-Man: Across the Spider-Verse ‘s Shea Whigham plays Dick in this film, but he takes a backseat to Nick Brady (Jonathan Scarfe).
The story takes place in an alternate version of 1985 that is under an authoritarian regime. Somehow, Nick is receiving visions that help him subvert the regime. Soon after saving the life of his infant son, Nick meets a singer named Sylvia (Alanis Morissette) who experiences the same kind of visions that he does. Together, Nick and Sylvia plan to secretly spread the word about their visions and resist the regime. Unfortunately, the regime may catch up with them first.
Radio Free Albemuth is not available to stream, rent or buy.
5. The Adjustment Bureau (2011) Universal Pictures The Adjustment Bureau puts forth the idea that humanity only has the illusion of free will. David Norris (Matt Damon) discovers this the hard way after meeting Elise Sellas (Emily Blunt). David is instantly attracted to Elise, but he soon learns from Harry Mitchell (Anthony Mackie) that he was never supposed to meet Elise more than once.
In fact, Harry and his adjustment team aren’t even human at all, and they threaten to erase David’s memories and ruin Elise’s life if he tries to defy their plans for their respective destinies. Yet David can’t stay away from Elise forever, even though both of them may ultimately pay the price for their forbidden romance.
Watch The Adjustment Bureau on Freevee.
4. Minority Report (2002) 20th Century Studios Steven Spielberg (making one of the best movies of his career) and Tom Cruise teamed up to bring Minority Report to the big screen. And if you’re wondering what a minority report is, we’ll try to keep it brief. In the future, there’s a Precrime police division that catches murderers before they can kill. It’s driven by the powers of three precognitive individuals, who are almost always correct. A minority report is the rare instance when one of the precogs sees a different version of the future than the other two.
This information comes into play when Precime’s top cop, John Anderton (Cruise), is targeted by his own division when a vision comes down of him murdering a man named Leo Crow (Mike Binder). And despite John’s best efforts to keep that future from coming to pass, fate seems to conspire to put him in the same room as Crow at the time of his murder.
Watch Minority Report on Paramount+.
3. A Scanner Darkly (2006) Warner Independent Pictures Director Richard Linklater took a unique visual approach to A Scanner Darkly by filming everything and then having every frame traced over in rotoscope animation to make it look like an animated movie. The story comes from one of Dick’s more personal novels, as he used heavy drugs and lived with other addicts at certain points in his life.
Keanu Reeves stars as Bob Arctor, an undercover police officer who has been assigned to spy on his housemates, James Barris (Robert Downey Jr.) and Ernie Luckman (Woody Harrelson). While living among them, Bob has become seriously addicted to Substance D, and he is openly attracted to his dealer, Donna Hawthorne (Winona Ryder). But as Bob succumbs to the side effects of D, his paranoia increases…and for good reasons. Because he’s not the only informant in the house, or in his life.
Watch A Scanner Darkly on Tubi.
2. Total Recall (1989) Tri-Star Pictures There are two Total Recall adaptations, and it’s not a coincidence that the 2012 remake didn’t make this list. The 1990 Paul Verhoeven version, one of the director’s best movies , is by far the better of the two, although both adaptations deal with Dick’s high concept of virtual vacations that can be implanted as memories. That’s exactly what Douglas Quaid (Arnold Schwarzenegger) thinks that he needs, so he purchases the scenario where he’s a secret agent on Mars from the virtual travel agency, Rekall. But much to the horror of the Rekall techs, they discover that Quaid’s fantasy was apparently a reality when they inadvertently awaken his real personality.
Not even Rekall’s attempt to hide their involvement spares Quaid from what comes next. The techs wiped his memory again, which is why Quaid is mystified when his own wife, Lori (Sharon Stone), suddenly tries to kill him. And she’s not the only one who wants Quaid dead as he tries to make his way to Mars to discover who he truly is.
Rent or buy Total Recall on Prime Video and Apple TV+.
1. Blade Runner (1982) Warner Bros. Pictures Ridley Scott’s Blade Runner wasn’t a success in theaters, but it attracted a cult following and it is now recognized as one of the greatest and most influential sci-fi movies ever made.
 At the time of its release in 1982, the story was set in the then-far-off year of 2019. Although the film’s vision of the future didn’t come to pass (yet), it had a huge influence on many of the sci-fi flicks that came after it.
Harrison Ford starred as Rick Deckard, a somewhat reluctant Blade Runner who is tasked with hunting down renegade Replicants and “retiring” them. The Replicants were created to do the dangerous off-world jobs that humans couldn’t, but they’ve been getting dangerous ideas that they deserve to live as well. Roy Batty (Rutger Hauer), Pris (Daryl Hannah), and their crew of Replicants even seem more human than Deckard! However, Deckard is especially shaken after meeting Rachael (Sean Young), a Replicant who is so convincingly human that not even she knows who or what she really is.
Rent or Buy Blade Runner on Prime Video.
Editors' Recommendations 10 best sci-fi movies of the 1980s, ranked Sci-Fi Entertainment Few comics outside of the world of comic book movies and superheroes have had greater influence in recent years than Scott Pilgrim vs. the World. The story was created by author Bryan Lee O'Malley and follows a man named Scott living in Toronto who is forced to battle the evil exes of a girl that he's interested in.
The legacy of Scott Pilgrim only increased after a movie adaptation was released several years later and became a cult classic in its own right. Now, with the new animated series adaptation Scott Pilgrim Takes Off streaming on Netflix, we're here to make the case that Scott Pilgrim is the best comic book ever. Here are 10 reasons why: It has a unique sensibility Entertainment On November 20, 1973, Charlie Brown and the Peanuts taught us to count our blessings and appreciate the important things in life in A Charlie Brown Thanksgiving. In the Emmy Award-winning animated special, Charlie and Sally Brown are supposed to head to their grandmother's house for Thanksgiving. Before they can leave, Peppermint Patty invites herself and a few friends over for dinner. Even though he can't cook, Charlie Brown decides to improvise and cook a simple meal with the help of Snoopy and Linus before heading to his grandma's.
Though not as popular as A Charlie Brown Christmas and It's the Great Pumpkin, Charlie Brown, A Charlie Brown Thanksgiving is still quite effective in conveying the true meaning of the holiday. It's an appropriate tribute to Thanksgiving. Here's how to watch A Charlie Brown Thanksgiving.
Watch A Charlie Brown Thanksgiving on Apple TV+ Entertainment This week is a particularly memorable one for Netflix's original series with two big premieres. The Crown – the British drama that has been one of the most popular shows on Netflix since its premiere in 2016 – is heading towards the finish line with the premiere of its sixth and final season. Additionally, the cult classic film and comic, Scott Pilgrim vs. the World, is getting a new anime series, Scott Pilgrim Takes Off.
With the Thanksgiving holiday coming next week, there's never been a better time to catch up on what's new on Netflix. You may even need the breather because it's been a busy year for Netflix. Don't worry, our weekly update of the best shows on Netflix will always be updated on Fridays to help you plan your weekend binge.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
