Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix F1 Live Stream Stranger Things Season 5 Best New Movies Most Popular Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney+ UFC Live Stream Best Movies on Disney+ Home Entertainment Guides 3 sci-fi movies on Peacock you need to watch in October By Blair Marnell Close Peacock may be focusing on horror films this month, but there are a handful of great sci-fi movies that have also rejoined Peacock’s streaming library. And all three of the best sci-fi movies on Peacock in October have a direct link to Steven Spielberg.
E.T. The Extra-Terrestrial (1982) Back to the Future (1985) Cowboys & Aliens (2011) This shouldn’t be too surprising since Spielberg has directed or executive produced several flicks for Universal Pictures, especially during his most productive years in the 1980s. Say what you will about Spielberg’s more recent flicks, but his mastery of the medium was clearly felt in all three of our choices this month, even when he wasn’t sitting in the director’s chair. So, for your next movie night, these are the three sci-fi movies on Peacock that you need to watch in October.
E.T. The Extra-Terrestrial (1982) Universal Pictures Spielberg kept his aliens a lot more mysterious in his previous sci-fi film, Close Encounters of the Third Kind.
 He went in the other direction with E.T. The Extra-Terrestrial , one of his most successful movies as a director. In the opening moments of the film, E.T. is accidentally left behind on Earth by his people. Fortunately, E.T. quickly befriends a young boy named Elliott ( Henry Thomas ), as well as his siblings, Gertie (Drew Barrymore) and Michael (Robert MacNaughton).
3 sci-fi movies on Paramount+ you need to watch in November 5 sci-fi movies on Netflix you need to watch in November 3 sci-fi movies on Tubi you need to watch in November While the kids initially keep E.T.’s presence a secret, government agents are actively trying to find him. But the longer that E.T. stays on Earth, the sicker he becomes. And because Elliot is so closely bonded with E.T., his health rapidly declines as well.
Watch E.T. The Extra-Terrestrial on Peacock.
Back to the Future (1985) Universal Pictures Although Spielberg didn’t direct Back to the Future , his influence was clearly felt as an executive producer on the film in support of director Robert Zemeckis and his co-writer, Bob Gale. The film stars Michael J. Fox as Marty McFly, a teenager who witnesses the first successful time travel experiment. Moments later, terrorists assassinate Marty’s friend, Emmett “Doc” Brown (Christopher Lloyd), and Marty is forced to use Doc’s DeLorean to escape into the past.
The problem is that Marty’s trip was apparently a one-way trip, and he needs the help of the younger Doc Brown to figure out a way to get home. However, Marty’s more immediate issue is that he has accidentally kept his mother, Lorraine (Lea Thompson), from falling in love with his father, George (Crispin Glover). If Marty doesn’t fix that mistake, he won’t have a future to go back to.
Watch Back to the Future on Peacock.
Cowboys & Aliens (2011) Universal/Paramount Spielberg also executive produced Cowboys & Aliens , which was based on a little-known comic book that was seemingly created just to be made into a movie. Jon Favreau helmed the film right after he finished Iron Man 2 , and he cast the then-current James Bond actor, Daniel Craig, to star in the movie as Jake Lonergan, an outlaw in the Old West who awakens without his memories. The only thing that Jake has are the clothes on his body and a weird alien device attached to his arm.
Jake may not remember who he was, but his old adversary, Colonel Woodrow Dolarhyde ( Harrison Ford, in not one of his best movies ), sure does, and he’s ready to put a few bullets in Jake before the aliens begin their invasion. In the face of this greater threat, Jake and Dolarhyde join forces with Ella Swenson (Olivia Wilde) to rally the townspeople of Absolution and the surrounding native tribes against a common foe.
Watch Cowboys & Aliens on Peacock.
Editors' Recommendations 3 movies leaving Peacock in November you have to watch 3 sci-fi movies on Peacock you need to watch in November 3 sci-fi movies on Hulu you need to watch in November 3 sci-fi movies on Prime Video you need to watch in November 3 underrated shows on Peacock you need to watch in November Peacock Sci-Fi Entertainment Sci-fi is one of those genres that is fun to watch any time, with movies that skew toward everything from comedy to horror, drama, suspense, and more. When it comes to Amazon Freevee, there’s a wide selection of sci-fi movies you can watch for free, with ads.
Along with high-profile titles from the past (you won’t find new releases here), and underrated action movies on Amazon Freevee, as well as other genres, there are a few underrated sci-fi movies on Amazon Freevee you should watch in November, too. They’re all critically acclaimed, come from various decades, and feature top-notch casts.
The Pink Cloud (2021) The Pink Cloud- Official Trailer- Sundance Selection Entertainment Peacock doesn't always get a chance to strut its stuff, but it does have an impressive lineup of films. They just don't stick around for long compared to the other streamers. Keep this in mind when we share our picks for the three underrated movies on Peacock. Most content new on Peacock has a very short shelf life.
This month, our picks include a hilarious mocumentary, a largely forgotten superhero flick, and a romantic comedy about the end of the world. These are the three underrated movies on Peacock you need to watch in November.
Honk for Jesus. Save Your Soul. (2022) Entertainment One of the most underrated streaming services is Tubi. Known as a FAST service, Tubi is free at sign-up, and subscribers will gain access to over 50,00 movies and TV shows. Tubi breaks down its content into categories based on genre. For October, the genre to focus on is action.
This month, we're traveling back 30 years to take advantage of a peak time in action filmmaking. Our selections for the three action movies on Tubi to watch in October include a martial arts sports drama, a Kathryn Bigelow crime thriller, and a clash at a rowdy bar.
Bloodsport (1988) Without Bloodsport, there is no Jean-Claude Van Damme. The iconic action hero's big break came in 1988 as Frank Dux, a U.S. army captain well-versed in the art of ninjutsu. Dux is accepted into the Kumite, a secret and illegal mixed martial arts tournament in Hong Kong. Dux abandons his military duties to enter the tournament, which attracts the attention of two military officers looking to arrest him.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
