Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix F1 Live Stream Stranger Things Season 5 Best New Movies Most Popular Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney+ UFC Live Stream Best Movies on Disney+ Home Entertainment Guides 3 underrated movies on Peacock you need to watch in October By Blair Marnell Close While Peacock has a large number of horror films lined up for its Halloween Horror programming, the underrated movies on Peacock in October tend to skew more toward sci-fi than scares. But there is at least one horror comedy in the mix that was barely seen in theaters. And that means audiences didn’t get to see it spoof all of the horror conventions that are normally in play.
Paul (2011) Cowboys & Aliens (2011) Tucker & Dale vs. Evil (2010) As for the two sci-fi films, the first one is a comedy that reunites Shaun of the Dead co-stars Simon Pegg and Nick Frost, while the other is a would-be franchise that had Daniel Craig and Harrison Ford in its cast. These are the three underrated movies on Peacock that you need to watch in October.
Paul (2011) Universal Pictures Considering that The Undeclared War ‘s Simon Pegg and Nick Frost made their mark in Hollywood with Shaun of the Dead , Hot Fuzz , and The World’s End , it’s surprising that their other collaboration, Paul , has largely fallen under the radar. Pegg and Frost co-wrote the film and co-star as Graeme Willy and Clive Gollings, respectively. While on a post-Comic-Con road trip, Graeme and Clive encounter Paul (Seth Rogen), a friendly alien who has recently escaped from government custody.
5 bad 2000s action movies that you still need to watch right now 6 best TV shows you need to watch in December 3 action movies on Netflix you need to watch in November After Graeme and Clive agree to help Paul reach his destination, they befriend, Ruth Buggs (Kristen Wiig), a half-blind woman whose life is profoundly changed by meeting Paul. However, the government’s top alien hunter, The Big Guy (Sigourney Weaver), wants Paul dead, and she’s dispatched Special Agent Lorenzo Zoil (Jason Bateman) to eliminate him.
Watch Paul on Peacock.
Cowboys & Aliens (2011) Universal/Paramount Cowboys & Aliens was made to be a movie. That’s not an exaggeration, as the original comic book was aggressively pitched to studios as a potential film. It ended up happening with a script by the creative team behind the Star Trek (2009) revival and it was director Jon Favreau’s first movie after Iron Man 2.
 With that kind of pedigree, it was easy to assume that the film would be a blockbuster hit. Spoiler: It was not.
Regardless of its failure to launch a franchise, Cowboys & Aliens is an underrated flick that has an out-of-this-world cast, including Daniel Craig as Jake Lonergan, Harrison Ford (in not one of his best movies) as Colonel Woodrow Dolarhyde, Olivia Wilde as Ella Swenson, Sam Rockwell as Doc, Paul Dano as Percy Dolarhyde, and the great Clancy Brown as Preacher Meacham. Although he doesn’t initially realize it, Lonergan holds the key to fighting the alien invasion in the Old West. But it’s up to Ella to convince rivals and hated enemies to join forces against the invaders.
Watch Cowboys & Aliens on Peacock.
Tucker & Dale vs. Evil (2010) Magnet Releasing The primary premise of Tucker and Dale vs. Evil is that the title characters don’t realize that they’re in a horror movie or that a bunch of horny college students have assumed that they are psychotic hillbilly killers. The only thing that Tucker McGee (Alan Tudyk) wants to do is go fishing with his best friend, Dale Dobson (Tyler Labine). But when Dale attempts to introduce himself to Allison (Katrina Bowden), he accidentally freaks her out and has Chad (Jesse Moss) and the rest of her friends convinced that Tucker and Dale are straight out of Deliverance.
Although Allison soon learns that Tucker and Dale have good intentions, she just can’t seem to convince her friends to accept that. Through a series of darkly comedic misunderstandings, Chad’s group meets fatal accidents as they attempt to attack Tucker and Dale in the misguided belief that they’ve kidnapped Allison.
Watch Tucker and Dale vs. Evil on Peacock.
Editors' Recommendations 3 movies leaving Peacock in November you have to watch 3 dramas on Prime Video you need to watch in November 3 sci-fi movies on Paramount+ you need to watch in November 3 sci-fi movies on Peacock you need to watch in November 5 sci-fi movies on Netflix you need to watch in November Peacock Sci-Fi Entertainment Last month on Hulu was all about horror. But in November, the new titles on Hulu include three of the best sci-fi movies of the last decade or so. For fans of the genre, this is a special treat that shouldn't be missed.
This month, our picks include Tom Cruise in a film unlike any of his previous blockbusters, as well as a cult classic robots-versus-aliens movie, and the final installment of a cult-classic film trilogy. These are the three sci-fi movies on Hulu that you need to watch in November.
Edge of Tomorrow (2014) Entertainment Action movies can get you amped up for a big day to come, or even out of a bad mood. They often feature high-speed chases, intense fight scenes, and maybe even a bit of sci-fi. They can be set just about anywhere and usually include great fight choreography and/or visual effects, sometimes even thought-provoking storylines when you dig deeper beneath the surface.
The best action movies on Prime Video include a diverse mix of titles, both old and new. When it comes to three action movies on Prime Video you need to watch in November, they all include A-list casts and one even spawned a franchise that is going strong after two decades.
V For Vendetta (2006) V For Vendetta (2005) Official Trailer #1 - Sc-Fi Thriller HD Entertainment If you're coming to Hulu for your action fix, then you've come to the right place. Hulu may be owned and operated by Disney, but this streaming service is about as far from the Mickey Mouse Club as you can get. Hulu has all of the R-rated action flicks that just wouldn't fit in at Disney+, Deadpool movies and Logan notwithstanding.
This month, two of our action picks are based on comic books, while the third is an all-timer in the action genre that won't be hanging around on Hulu for much longer. These are the three action movies on Hulu that you need to watch in November.
Blade II (2001) Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
