Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Netflix Original Movies Best Comedies on Netflix Best Netflix Original Series Best Anime on Netflix Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Fantasy Movies on Netflix Home Entertainment Guides 5 sci-fi movies on Netflix you need to watch in September By Dan Girolamo Close One of the many benefits of Netflix is the endless streaming options for movies in genres, including action, horror, sports, comedy, and romance. One genre that continues to add to its expanding library is sci-fi. From thrillers, like Spiderhead and The Titan , to action-adventures, like 65 and Star Trek , the sci-fi section on Netflix hosts multiple subgenres to satisfy all types of moviegoers.
Arrival (2016) Snowpiercer (2013) Dune (1984) Synchronic (2019) Stowaway (2021) For September, we curated a list of five sci-fi movies available on Netflix that should be seen this month. Some of our selections include a riveting tale from Denis Villeneuve, a political allegory from Bong Joon-ho, and a moral dilemma set in space.
Arrival (2016) Paramount Pictures Before entering the worlds of replicants and Bene Gesserit, Villeneuve tackled extraterrestrials on Earth in 2016’s Arrival.
 Written by Eric Heisserer and directed by Villeneuve, Arrival depicts the appearance of twelve extraterrestrial spacecraft hovering over the Earth in multiple locations, including Montana.
3 sci-fi movies on Paramount+ you need to watch in November 3 action movies on Netflix you need to watch in November 5 sci-fi movies on Netflix you need to watch in November The United States military hires linguistics professor Louise Banks (Amy Adams) and a team of specialists to communicate with the aliens. Louise establishes a shared language, but tension rises throughout the rest of the world as nations prepare for war. Louise must figure out the purpose of the extraterrestrials’ missions before it leads to consequences of cataclysmic proportions.
Stream Arrival on Netflix.
Snowpiercer (2013) CJ Entertainment In a post-apocalyptic future, humanity collapsed after an attempt to stop climate change backfired, resulting in a second Ice Age. The surviving humans are forced to live on Snowpiercer, a self-sustaining train that circumnavigates the world. However, not every passenger receives equal treatment. The wealthy live in the front, while the poor live in the caboose. Monitored by armed guards, the caboose is the equivalent of the slums of a city.
Fed up with their poor living conditions, Curtis Everett (Chris Evans) rallies the passengers in the back to join in a revolution against the guards. The passengers gain control of the caboose but soon turn their attention toward the wealthy, with the intention of taking control of the engine room. Directed by Bong Joon-ho from a script he co-wrote with Kelly Masterson, Snowpiercer is an action-packed adventure, and a criminally underrated sci-fi movie , with a fresh examination of class and climate change.
Stream Snowpiercer on Netflix.
Dune (1984) Universal Pictures Villeneuve’s Dune was not the first film adaptation of Frank Herbert’s epic sci-fi novel. That distinction belongs to David Lynch, who released his adaptation of Dune in 1984. Lynch’s film stars Kyle MacLachlan as Paul Atreides, the young nobleman of House Atreides. The Atreides are ordered to leave their home planet of Caladan for Arrakis, the sand planet home to the most powerful resource in the universe, spice.
House Atreides’ presence in Arrakis leads to a conflict with the planet’s previous overlords, House Harkonnen, the Atreides’ archenemies. Upon release, Dune was a box office flop and a critical failure, so much so that Lynch does not like talking about it.
Dune has a lot of problems, but it’s a fascinating attempt to adapt a difficult source material. It’s worth your time as it laid the foundation for future Dune films.
Stream Dune on Netflix before it leaves the service on October 1.
Synchronic (2019) Well Go USA Entertainment 2020 was a weird year for movies due to the COVID-19 pandemic. Many movies either pushed back their release dates or released in theaters at a time when people were staying at home. One of the most lost in the pandemic shuffles was Synchronic , a sci-fi mystery by Justin Benson and Aaron Moorhead.
The thought-provoking horror follows two New Orleans paramedics – Steve Denube (Anthony Mackie) and Dennis Dannelly (Jamie Dornan) – who investigate a string of deaths caused by a drug called Synchronic, which may have time-traveling powers. When Dennis’ young daughter goes missing, the duo race to track her down before she’s lost in the drug’s mind-altering reality.
Stream Synchronic on Netflix.
Stowaway (2021) Netflix A three-person mission is threatened by the presence of a fourth in Stowaway.
 Marina Barnett (Toni Collette), David Kim (Daniel Dae Kim), and medical researcher Zoe Levenson (Anna Kendrick) are on a mission to Mars when they discover Michael Adams (Shamier Anderson), an accidental stowaway on the ship.
This poses a problem and threat to their survival. There are enough resources on the ship for three people, not four. The crew is forced to make a difficult decision. Either they figure out how to produce more oxygen, an option with a low success rate, or sacrifice Michael and continue with the mission.
Stream Stowaway on Netflix.
Editors' Recommendations 5 bad 2000s action movies that you still need to watch right now 7 best sci-fi movie actors 3 sci-fi movies on Peacock you need to watch in November 3 sci-fi movies on Hulu you need to watch in November 3 underrated shows on Netflix you need to watch in November Netflix Sci-Fi Streaming Services Entertainment As the calendar turns to November, many streaming services will gear their programming to reflect the holidays. However, there will still be other genres readily available. Tubi, for example, still has a great selection of sci-fi films. As a FAST service, Tubi customers can access the service for free and watch programs with ads.
Sci-fi fans need to watch these three films in November: a reboot of a storied franchise from the 1960s and 1970s, an iconic horror film from John Carpenter, and a sequel to Guillermo del Toro's monster movie.
Rise of the Planet of the Apes (2011) Entertainment Sci-fi movies are available in abundance. There are some great classic sci-fi movies you can watch on streaming services like Prime Video. But there are also compelling new ones that might be worth checking out.
If you’re looking for something relatively new and off the beaten path, three sci-fi movies on Prime Video you need to watch in November include one that debuted just this year, a popcorn thriller disaster sci-fi flick, and a totally under-the-radar movie from an independent filmmaker.
I’ll Be Watching (2023) I'LL BE WATCHING | Official HD Trailer (2023) | THRILLER | Film Threat Trailers Entertainment By the 1980s, science fiction had become a much less niche proposition. Several major movies had proven that it was possible to make popular versions of these stories, and TV followed suit shortly after that.
While there were several immensely popular sci-fi series airing during this period, a few also fell under the radar. These three shows are perfect examples of why sci-fi storytelling became much more popular in the 1980s across a wide array of different formats, whether it was in the U.S. or the U.K.
Red Dwarf (1988) Red Dwarf - Series 1 Trailer Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
