Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Netflix Original Movies Best Comedies on Netflix Best Netflix Original Series Best Anime on Netflix Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Fantasy Movies on Netflix Home Entertainment Guides The best animated movies on Netflix right now By Blair Marnell and Nick Perry Close Netflix has such a stacked lineup of animated movies that it can withstand losing Despicable Me and Minions at the end of November and not miss a beat. That’s because Netflix not only has a vast array of its own original animated titles, as well as movies Sony Pictures Animation, DreamWorks Animation, Universal Pictures, and Illumination, but it also has one of the top films of 2023: Spider-Man: Across the Spider-Verse.
 That’s a movie that will have a long digital afterlife, and it will likely take home an Oscar or two early next year.
This month, we’re also throwing the spotlight on The Angry Birds Movie and its unrelated avian companion flick, Storks , as well as a beautiful anime film, A Whisker Away.
 And that’s just the beginning of what you’ll find on our round-up of the best animated movies on Netflix.
Looking for something else? We’ve also rounded up the best movies on Netflix , the best shows on Hulu , the best shows on Amazon Prime , and the best shows on Disney+.
Spider-Man: Across the Spider-Verse pg-13 2023 The Angry Birds Movie pg 2016 Storks pg 2016 A Whisker Away pg 2020 Spider-Man: Across the Spider-Verse (2023) new pg-13 140m Animation, Action, Adventure Shameik Moore, Hailee Steinfeld, Jason Schwartzman Joaquim Dos Santos, Justin K. Thompson, Kemp Powers watch on Netflix watch on Netflix In the highly-anticipated sequel to Spider-Man: Into the Spider-Verse , Miles Morales (Shameik Moore) and Gwen Stacy (Hailee Steinfeld) find themselves at turning points in their lives that could have grave consequences for the entire multiverse.
Spider-Man: Across the Spider-Verse doesn’t just up the stakes, it also features the best superhero story of 2023.
Without meaning to, Miles has antagonized a would-be supervillain, The Spot (Jason Schwartzman), into becoming a genuine threat to the Spider-Men and Spider-Women from across all of the worlds. However, the most alarming revelation is that Miles faces a personal tragedy if he can’t prevent The Spot from fulfilling his destiny.
Read less The 50 best movies on Netflix right now (November 2023) The best Hulu original series right now The 50 best anime on Hulu right now The Angry Birds Movie (2016) new pg 97m Animation, Adventure, Comedy, Family Jason Sudeikis, Josh Gad, Danny McBride Fergal Reilly, Clay Kaytis watch on Netflix watch on Netflix After spawning a wildly successful video game series, the Angry Birds get cinematic in The Angry Birds Movie.
 This animated film acts as an origin story for Red ( Ted Lasso ‘s Jason Sudeikis), Chuck (Josh Gad), and Bomb (Danny McBride), as their collective anger issues have left them as outcasts on Bird Island.
The birds’ quiet life on the island is interrupted by the arrival of Leonard Mudbeard (Bill Hader) a.k.a. King Pig. Despite Red’s warnings that Mudbeard and the pigs can’t be trusted, his predictions are ignored. And if you thought that Red was angry before, just wait until he learns what the pigs really want to do to Bird Island.
Read less Storks (2016) new pg 87m Adventure, Animation, Comedy, Family Andy Samberg, Katie Crown, Kelsey Grammer Doug Sweetland, Nicholas Stoller watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Have you ever wondered why storks don’t deliver babies anymore? The Storks animated movie answers that question, and the blame falls squarely on Junior (Andy Samberg), a stork who became too attached to a baby girl named Tulip and adopted her as his own child. Subsequently, the storks formed their own version of Amazon called Cornerstore and they got out of the baby delivery business.
As an adult, Tulip (Katie Crown) doesn’t fit in with the storks or at Cornerstore. She also accidentally creates a baby girl whom she calls Diamond Destiny. To hide her mistake, Tulip and Junior decide to find a human family to take care of Diamond. At the same time, Tulip hopes to reunite with her own biological family.
Read less A Whisker Away (2020) new pg 104m Animation, Drama, Romance, Fantasy Mirai Shida, Natsuki Hanae, Koichi Yamadera Junichi Sato, Tomotaka Shibayama watch on Netflix watch on Netflix It should never be forgotten that many of the best animated movies in the world come from Japan. The anime film, A Whisker Away , was released in the U.S. as a Netflix original, and it really does stand out among the more family-oriented films on this list. In this movie, Miyo “Muge” Sasaki (Mirai Shida) is a young Japanese girl who is hopelessly in love with her classmate, Kento Hinode (Natsuki Hanae).
Miyo is heartbroken when Hindode doesn’t return her feelings, which is why she accepts a magic mask that transforms her into a cat named Tarō. As Tarō, Miyo finally receives the love and affection that she desires from Hinode. But if Miyo isn’t careful, she may be trapped as a cat for the rest of her life.
Read less Megamind (2010) pg 96m Animation, Action, Comedy, Family, Science Fiction Will Ferrell, Tina Fey, Jonah Hill Tom McGrath watch on Netflix watch on Netflix As voiced by Will Ferrell, Megamind is the world’s greatest supervillain and the nemesis of Metro Man (Brad Pitt), a very Superman-like hero.
Megamind ’s story explores what happens when the title character finally achieves everything he thought he wanted by defeating Metro Man.
But it turns out that Megamind doesn’t like stealing unopposed, so he turns a hapless cameraman, Hal Stewart (Jonah Hill), into a new hero called Titan. Meanwhile, Megamind starts to lose interest in crime when he courts reporter Roxanne Ritchi ( A Haunting in Venice ‘s Tina Fey) while disguised as a human. Unfortunately for Megamind, his new life is built on lies and they’re about to be exposed.
Read less The Adventures of Tintin (2011) pg 107m Adventure, Animation, Mystery Jamie Bell, Andy Serkis, Daniel Craig Steven Spielberg watch on Netflix watch on Netflix American comic book readers aren’t that familiar with Hergé’s The Adventures of Tintin , which is one of the most popular European comics of all-time. But Steven Spielberg and Peter Jackson are big fans, which is why they teamed up for 2011’s CGI-animated adaptation of The Adventures of Tintin.
In the film, Tintin (Jamie Bell), a young journalist living in Belgium during the ‘50s, finds himself accosted by a fanatical collector, Ivan Ivanovitch Sakharine (Daniel Craig), and an Interpol officer, Barnaby Dawes (Joe Starr), both of whom want his model of a ship called the Unicorn. Inside the model is a clue that could lead to the real Unicorn and the treasure within. Once Tintin realizes that, he goes on a globe-trotting adventure alongside his adorable dog Snowy, and his new friend, Captain Archibald Haddock (Andy Serkis).
Read less The Road to El Dorado (2000) pg 89m Family, Adventure, Animation, Comedy, Fantasy Kenneth Branagh, Kevin Kline, Rosie Perez Bibo Bergeron, Don Paul watch on Netflix watch on Netflix The Road To El Dorado is a holdover from DreamWorks Animation’s Disney-lite era, but it’s been rediscovered now that it’s on Netflix. Kevin Kline and Kenneth Branagh co-star as a pair of con artists, Tulio and Miguel, who win a map to the fabled city of gold: El Dorado.
After making a perilous journey to the New World, Tulio and Miguel discover that El Dorado is rich beyond their wildest dreams. They also find a kindred spirit in Chel (Rosie Perez), a young woman who goes along with the pair pretending to be gods as long as they take her with them when they leave. However, Tulio and Miguel come to truly care for the people of El Dorado, and they realize that they have to protect the city from the Conquistadors led by Hernán Cortés (Jim Cummings).
Read less Kung Fu Panda (2008) pg 90m Action, Adventure, Animation, Family, Comedy Jack Black, Angelina Jolie, Dustin Hoffman Mark Osborne, John Stevenson watch on Netflix watch on Netflix The Kung Fu Panda franchise has a large presence on Netflix including spinoff animated series and the two sequel movies. Now, the original Kung Fu Panda movie is back on the streamer, and it’s still the best entry in the franchise. Jack Black stars as the voice of Po, a Kung Fu-loving panda who has absolutely no natural affinity for the martial arts.
That’s why Master Shifu (Dustin Hoffman) is so reluctant to train Po when he is declared the Dragon Warrior, the fighter who is destined to defeat Shifu’s ex-student (and current nemesis), Tai Lung (Ian McShane). To live up to destiny, Po will have to find a new way to transform himself into a legitimate fighter.
Read less The Monkey King (2023) pg 92m Animation, Fantasy, Adventure, Family, Comedy Jimmy O. Yang, Bowen Yang, Jolie Hoang-Rappaport Anthony Stacchi watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Netflix never lets a summer go by without a few blockbusters of its own.
The Monkey King is Netflix’s big animated movie of the season, and it takes a very famous Chinese novel and adds new life to it. Jimmy O. Yang stars as Monkey, the brash young monkey who defies the Dragon King ( Fire Island ‘s Bowen Yang) and steals a weapon from him in order to face a demon and win the adoration of his tribe.
After Monkey declares himself the Monkey King, a young girl named Lin (Jolie Hoang-Rappaport) volunteers to work as his assistant. However, Lin has a dark secret and the Dragon King is out for revenge on Monkey for stealing from him. And if Monkey isn’t careful, he may find himself alone during the fight of his life.
Read less Sing 2 (2021) pg 110m Animation, Family Matthew McConaughey, Reese Witherspoon, Scarlett Johansson Garth Jennings watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Both of the Sing movies were unexpected box office hits. But in Sing 2 , Buster Moon (Matthew McConaughey), Johnny ( Black Bird ‘s Taron Egerton), Meena (Tori Kelly), Rosita (Reese Witherspoon), Gunter (Nick Kroll), Miss Crawly (Garth Jennings), and Ash (Scarlett Johansson) feel the need to prove themselves again by making it big in Redshore City.
After meeting with media mogul Jimmy Crystal (Bobby Cannavale), Buster successfully sells him on the idea of doing a show based on the songs of Clay Calloway (Bono). The problem is that no one bothered to ask Clay first, and he’s been a recluse for years since the death of his wife. And if Buster can’t deliver Clay, then he’ll be in a world of trouble.
Read less Wallace & Gromit: The Curse of the Were-Rabbit (2005) g 85m Adventure, Animation, Comedy, Family Peter Sallis, Ralph Fiennes, Helena Bonham Carter Nick Park, Steve Box watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Wallace & Gromit: The Curse of the Were-Rabbit is 2005’s Oscar-winner for Best Animated Feature and one of the all-time great stop-motion animated classics. In this continuation of the beloved Wallace & Gromit series, Wallace (Peter Sallis) and his brilliant (and silent) dog, Gromit, have come up with a way to humanely keep rabbits from destroying a town’s giant vegetable crops.
Unfortunately, Wallace’s experiments unintentionally create the giant Were-Rabbit, who quickly terrorizes the town and makes Wallace and Gromit look like failures. Wallace’s rival, Lord Victor Quartermaine (Ralph Fiennes), uses this opportunity to discredit the duo. Meanwhile, Gromit’s investigation into the Were-Rabbit leads to a surprising culprit.
Read less Puss in Boots: The Last Wish (2022) pg 103m Animation, Family, Fantasy, Adventure, Comedy, Action Antonio Banderas, Salma Hayek Pinault, Harvey Guillén Joel Crawford watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Cats are supposed to have nine lives, and Puss in Boots has put that theory to the test across the Shrek movies and in his own spinoff films.
Puss in Boots: The Last Wish begins with Puss facing an existential crisis as he discovers that he is down to his last life. And his initial response is to run away from who he is.
Puss’ last hope to reclaim his life of adventure is to find the legendary Wishing Star and reclaim the extra lives that he needs. However, many others want the Wishing Star as well, including some who may need it more than Puss himself.
Read less Cloudy with a Chance of Meatballs 2 (2013) pg 95m Animation, Family, Comedy Bill Hader, Anna Faris, James Caan Cody Cameron, Kris Pearn watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Bill Hader reprises his role as inventor Flint Lockwood in Cloudy With a Chance of Meatballs 2.
 After getting to work for his idol, Chester V (Will Forte), Flint discovers that his malfunctioning food replicator is apparently still working and creating sentient food on the island.
Although Chester tells Flint to take care of the problem on his own, he brings his girlfriend, Sam Sparks (Anna Faris); his monkey, Steve (Neil Patrick Harris); and their friends “Chicken” Brent McHale (Andy Samberg), Manny (Benjamin Bratt), and Earl Devereaux (Terry Crews). However, it appears that Chester V has his own sinister agenda for the food replicator and its creations.
Read less Nimona (2023) pg 102m Animation, Science Fiction, Action, Adventure, Fantasy Chloë Grace Moretz, Riz Ahmed, Eugene Lee Yang Troy Quane, Nick Bruno watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Nimona is an animated film that escaped cancellation in the wake of the Disney and Fox merger. It’s widely believed that the movie’s LGBT themes made Disney reluctant to go forward with the movie after the merger. However, Netflix had no problem with a leading man, Ballister Boldheart (Riz Ahmed), who is in love with another man, or a non-conforming heroine like Nimona (Chloë Grace Moretz).
In a futuristic medieval world, Ballister is framed for murdering Queen Valerin (Lorraine Toussaint). While forced to go on the run, Ballister is befriended by Nimona. She may be Ballister’s last ally in the kingdom, but Nimona is more than she seems. And her secret could destroy her newfound friendship with Ballister.
Read less The Magician's Elephant (2023) 99m Animation, Adventure, Family, Fantasy Noah Jupe, Mandy Patinkin, Brian Tyree Henry Wendy Rogers Read less The Summit of the Gods (2021) 95m Animation, Adventure, Mystery Éric Herson-Macarel, Damien Boisseau, Elisabeth Ventura Patrick Imbert watch on Netflix watch on Netflix This gorgeously animated French-language film from director Patrick Imbert chronicles a Japanese photojournalist’s quest for the truth regarding a mysterious mountain climber and his connection to one of the first teams to attempt to climb Mount Everest.
A Cannes Film Festival darling praised for its beautiful visual achievement and compelling story, The Summit of the Gods is the rare adaptation of a Japanese manga series that does right by its source material — which was itself based on a 1998 novel by Baku Yumemakura. Fascinating and emotional, the film makes it tough not to be pulled along on the characters’ epic journey.
Read less The Sea Beast (2022) 115m Animation, Adventure, Family, Fantasy Karl Urban, Zaris-Angel Hator, Jared Harris Chris Williams watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Chris Williams, the co-director of Disney’s Big Hero 6 and Moana , takes the helm on this animated high-seas adventure about a young girl who stows away on a famous monster-hunting ship, only to discover that everything she thought she knew about monsters and hunters might be wrong.
Zaris-Angel Hator portrays aspiring monster-hunter (and stowaway) Maisie, while Karl Urban voices legendary hunter Jacob Holland in this all-ages feature that’s exciting, funny, and much deeper than its premise suggests.
Read less Bubble (2022) 101m Animation, Adventure, Science Fiction Jun Shison, Riria, Alice Hirose Tetsuro Araki watch on Netflix watch on Netflix This animated feature from Attack on Titan director Tetsuro Araki is set in a post-apocalyptic Tokyo where a mysterious event has affected the laws of gravity, leaving strange bubbles and urban debris floating throughout the city. Skilled racers compete in parkour-like competitions for food and supplies, and when one gifted young man encounters a strange girl while exploring the epicenter of the gravity-twisting “bubble event,” their relationship changes the lives of everyone around them.
A gorgeous spectacle of sights and sounds, Bubble begs to be seen on a high-end entertainment system, as it delivers remarkably detailed scenes of the characters traversing the city and a powerful score that accentuates its most thrilling — and quietest — moments.
Read less The Willoughbys (2020) pg 92m Animation, Comedy, Family Will Forte, Maya Rudolph, Alessia Cara Kris Pearn watch on Netflix watch on Netflix A family tale made for those who wish they could get away from their family, The Willoughbys is a Netflix original that has gone somewhat under the radar.
When the four Willoughby children are abandoned by their selfish parents, they must adapt to the contemporary world. Their old family was very old-fashioned, and now they have one mission in life: become the ultimate modern family.
Read less Klaus (2019) pg 96m Animation, Family, Adventure, Comedy Jason Schwartzman, J.K. Simmons, Rashida Jones Sergio Pablos watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Netflix’s first original animated feature film, Klaus is an alternative and entertaining Santa Claus origin story. When a selfish young postman is assigned to a remote Scandinavian town, his unlikely friendship with a recluse leads to the accidental creation of an incredible (and familiar) toymaker.
Klaus features the voice talent of Jason Schwartzman (who really carries the film), J.K. Simmons, Rashida Jones, Norm MacDonald, and Joan Cusack. The film earned a 2020 Oscar nomination for Best Animated Feature.
Read less Editors' Recommendations The best new shows to stream on Netflix, Hulu, Max (HBO), and more The 50 best shows on Netflix in November 2023 The best movies and shows on Shudder right now (November 2023) The best Black movies on Netflix right now The 10 most popular movies on Netflix right now Best Products Netflix Streaming Guides Streaming Services Movie images and data from: Entertainment The best feel-good movies on Netflix right now include plenty of romantic comedies to watch while snuggling up with your partner, pet, or favorite blanket.
There's also a concert tour documentary courtesy of Taylor Swift, which is particularly topical due to the singing sensation's dominance of the pop culture zeitgeist. We've sorted through the best feel-good movies on Netflix and feel good about the list below.
Entertainment It's not hard to find a great comedy movie on Netflix. Unlike some other genres like sci-fi and fantasy, Netflix keeps its lineup of comedies well-stocked with some recent box-office hits, like Jennifer Lawrence's No Hard Feelings, as well as classic titles on loan from other studios and a lot of original films. This month's new additions include the first theatrical adaptation of The Addams Family, The Big Lebowski, and Scott Pilgrim vs. the World. It's pretty hard to go wrong with those flicks.
Comedies come and go, which is why it's important to stay glued to what's new on Netflix. If you're looking for laughs, these are the best comedies on Netflix right now.
Entertainment You're going to see a lot of Christmas movies on Hulu through the end of the year. 'Tis the season for the Huludays, after all. While we'll go over your Christmas options at a later date, this month's selections of the best movies on Hulu feature a new original film, Quiz Lady, as well as A Haunting in Venice, which recently finished its theatrical run. The other prominent new additions are Jumanji: Welcome to the Jungle and the comedy biopic Driven.
Need help keeping up with everything new on Hulu? Every month, we go over the greatest films that Hulu has to offer while keeping track of what's coming and going. That's why our update of the best movies on Hulu is always current. We're here to help you plan your next movie night.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
