Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix F1 Live Stream Stranger Things Season 5 Best New Movies Most Popular Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney+ UFC Live Stream Best Movies on Disney+ Home Entertainment Guides The best anime on Amazon Prime Video right now By Guillermo Kurten and Nick Perry Close New shows are constantly on Amazon Prime Video , and anime fans can get their fill of the genre as well. There are surely other anime-focused streamers for enthusiasts to prioritize, but considering how accessible Prime Video is, it can be a supplement, especially with the recent addition of Crunchyroll as an optional premium channel.
Prime hosts an impressive catalog in terms of quality and diversity of content, and it spans TV and film. But as newcomer-friendly as the genre has grown to be in recent years, it can still be somewhat difficult to know where to start. That’s why we’ve put together a curated guide on the best anime to find on Amazon Prime Video, updated monthly.
For those who might be feeling a little overwhelmed, but are still intrigued by the genre, we also have worthwhile guides on the best anime on Netflix and the best anime on Hulu to help fans get the most value out of their subscriptions.
The 50 best movies on Netflix right now (November 2023) The best movies and shows on Shudder right now (November 2023) The best feel-good movies on Netflix right now SPY x FAMILY (2022) new tv-14 2 Seasons Animation, Comedy, Action & Adventure Takuya Eguchi, Atsumi Tanezaki, Saori Hayami watch on Amazon watch on Amazon One of the best contemporary anime to watch on Amazon Prime Video through the Crunchyroll premium channel is Spy x Family.
 An animation co-effort by Wit Studio and CloverWorks, this adaptation of Tatsuya Endo’s manga of the same name has become a charming modern sensation.
A Spy going under the codename “Twilight” embarks on a high-stakes mission to maintain peace between two fragile nations, requiring him to take on the alias Loid Forger as part of a fabricated family. Little do they know, each of the family members has something to hide, from Yor’s assassin background and Anya’s telepathic powers. Combining ’60s and modern aesthetics, Spy x Family is a delightful spy-thiller and feel-good comedy hybrid.
Read less Dragon Ball Super (2015) new tv-14 1 Season Animation, Action & Adventure, Sci-Fi & Fantasy Masako Nozawa, Ryou Horikawa, Hiromi Tsuru Akira Toriyama watch on Amazon watch on Amazon Akira Toriyama’s Dragon Ball franchise became one of the faces of the anime genre worldwide, making Dragon Ball Super something of an inevitability. Taking place seven years after the events of the groundbreaking Dragon Ball Z , Super sees Goku and his friends enjoying peaceful times before Beerus, a galactic God of Destruction, comes to challenge him to try and defy a prophecy of his defeat.
It’s only the catalyst of the anime series, though, as these events pave the way for a wild assortment of otherworldly threats and over-the-top power-ups to define Dragon Ball Super.
 Though it’s tough to top the success of the series to start it all and the raving success of Z , Super is a fun way of getting more colorfully bombastic action from this universe.
Read less Naruto Shippūden (2007) new tv-pg 20 Seasons Animation, Action & Adventure, Sci-Fi & Fantasy Junko Takeuchi, Chie Nakamura, Noriaki Sugiyama watch on Amazon watch on Amazon Though it’s part of the same flagship Naruto manga, Studio Pierrot adapted Masashi Kishimoto’s time-skip portion of the series as the sequel anime Naruto: Shippuden.
Also now made available through the Crunchyroll premium channel upgrade on Prime, this series takes place around 2.5 years after the original series, with Naruto returning to the Hidden Leaf Village after training with Master Jiraiya. Now with Sasuke a rogue ninja and the Akatsuki organization steadily materializing its sinister plans on the shinobi world, Naruto: Shippuden greatly expands the scope and stakes of this world.
Read less Memories (1995) 113m Fantasy, Animation, Science Fiction Tsutomu Isobe, Koichi Yamadera, Shozo Iizuka Koji Morimoto, Katsuhiro Otomo, Tensai Okamura watch on Amazon watch on Amazon Memories is one of the most unique anime movies of the ’90s, both in style and structure. Animated by Madhouse and Studio 4C, Memories is an anthology movie comprised of three short stories: Magnetic Rose , Stink Bomb , and Cannon Fodder.
Each of these tales delves into different aspects of science fiction by blending it with other subgenres, ranging from grim psychological horror, comedy, and a tragic war-time epic. It’s an interesting way of exploring the sci-fi genre through the lenses of distinct voices in the anime industry, with Akira director Katsuhiro Otomo spearheading Cannon Fodder.
Read less One Piece: Stampede (2019) 101m Animation, Action, Adventure, Family, Fantasy Mayumi Tanaka, Kazuya Nakai, Akemi Okamura Takashi Otsuka watch on Amazon watch on Amazon Read less Dragon Ball Super: Broly (2018) 99m Action, Science Fiction, Animation Masako Nozawa, Aya Hisakawa, Ryou Horikawa Tatsuya Nagamine watch on Amazon watch on Amazon Read less Kenichi: The Mightiest Disciple (2006) 1 Season Action & Adventure, Animation, Comedy Tomokazu Seki, Tomoko Kawakami, Jurota Kosugi watch on Amazon watch on Amazon Read less Princess Principal (2017) 1 Season Action & Adventure, Animation, Mystery, Drama Akira Sekine, Ayaka Imamura, Nozomi Furuki watch on Amazon watch on Amazon Read less Psycho-Pass 3: First Inspector (2020) 137m Science Fiction, Action, Crime, Animation Takahiro Sakurai, Junichi Suwabe, Yuichi Nakamura Naoyoshi Shiotani watch on Amazon watch on Amazon While the Psycho-Pass series hasn’t measured up to its lauded first season, its subsequent seasons and sequel anime movies are solid stories on their own terms. Set after the events of its third season, Psycho-Pass 3: First Inspector is set in a dystopian cyberpunk sandbox where an artificial intelligence system determines the likelihood of criminality in Japan’s citizens — and is willing to go as far as executing lethal force to deal with uncommitted crimes.
The Sybil System that makes these judgments is being targeted by a shadow criminal mastermind, and its Inspectors Arata Shindou and Mikhail Kei Ignatov argue over how to deal with this conspiracy and the greater ideologies at play surrounding it.
Read less Ghost Stories (2000) tv-14 1 Season Animation, Comedy, Sci-Fi & Fantasy Tomoko Kawakami, Kotono Mitsuishi, Kumi Sakuma watch on Amazon watch on Amazon Read less Yu-Gi-Oh! Duel Monsters (2000) tv-y 1 Season Animation, Kids, Action & Adventure Shunsuke Kazama, Kenjiro Tsuda, Hiroki Takahashi watch on Amazon watch on Amazon Read less Tomorrow's Joe 2 The Movie (1981) 112m Action, Animation, Drama Teruhiko Aoi, Jûkei Fujioka, Toshiyuki Hosokawa Osamu Dezaki watch on Amazon watch on Amazon While Hajime no Ippo and Megalox have carried its mantle, Asao Takamori’s Tomorrow’s Joe holds up well even today. The anime adaptations have easily been some of the best sports and boxing series in the genre, with Tomorrow’s Joe 2 proving to be a powerful follow-up to the ’70s TV show. It picks up with Bantamweight fighter Joe Yabuki reeling after the tragic events of the original series and retiring from the ring.
However, after a soul-searching journey, Joe finds himself compelled back into the boxing world with the help of his trainer and world-renowned boxer Carlos Rivera.
Tomorrow’s Joe 2 is one of the best showcases of an anime balancing sports and character drama in a profound way.
Read less My Hero Academia: Heroes Rising (2019) 104m Animation, Action, Fantasy, Adventure Daiki Yamashita, Nobuhiko Okamoto, Yoshio Inoue Kenji Nagasaki watch on Amazon watch on Amazon Read less Case Closed (1996) tv-14 1 Season Animation, Comedy, Mystery Minami Takayama, Kappei Yamaguchi, Wakana Yamazaki watch on Amazon watch on Amazon Read less Tomorrow's Joe The Movie (1980) 153m Action, Animation, Drama Teruhiko Aoi, Jûkei Fujioka, Toshiyuki Hosokawa Yoichiro Fukuda watch on Amazon watch on Amazon Read less My Hero Academia: World Heroes' Mission (2021) 105m Animation, Action, Adventure, Science Fiction Daiki Yamashita, Nobuhiko Okamoto, Yuki Kaji Kenji Nagasaki watch on Amazon watch on Amazon Kohei Horikoshi’s My Hero Academia manga has become one of the most lucrative shounen anime adaptations in recent years. That success has led to a string of original movies hitting the big screen, with 2021’s My Hero Academia: World Heroes’ Mission being the franchise’s latest theatrical venture.
Once again animated by veteran anime studio Bones, World Heroes’ Mission takes place sometime after season 5 of the TV series and sees Deku become framed for a crime he didn’t commit. This all happens as a much wider threat looms; the radical Humarise group is looking to eradicate all humans powered by Quirks.
Read less Gintama: The Very Final (2021) 104m Animation, Action, Comedy Tomokazu Sugita, Daisuke Sakaguchi, Rie Kugimiya Chizuru Miyawaki watch on Amazon watch on Amazon Read less New Initial D the Movie: Legend 3 -- Dream (2016) 65m Action, Animation, Drama Hiroaki Hirata, Hiroshi Tsuchida, Mamoru Miyano Masamitsu Hidaka watch on Amazon watch on Amazon The definitive racing anime series returns with New Initial D the Movie: Legend 3 — Dream.
 This trilogy closer ties up the early story arcs of Shuuichi Shigeno’s manga. Picking up on the cliffhanger ending of Legend 2 — Racer , protagonist Takumi Fujiwara receives a formal challenge from the Akagi Red Suns’ leader, Ryousuke Takahashi.
After spending the summer racing around Gunma and taking on the city’s best drivers, Takumi becomes thrilled at the prospect of challenging this street-racing legend. With the title of Gunma’s fastest driver on the line, Legend 3 — Dream ends a crucial storyline of the series.
Read less Ghost in the Shell (1995) 82m Action, Animation, Science Fiction Atsuko Tanaka, Akio Otsuka, Iemasa Kayumi Mamoru Oshii watch on Amazon watch on Amazon One of the most influential anime movies of all time, director Mamoru Oshii’s Ghost in the Shell made a case for the genre’s appeal westward.
Ghost in the Shell — adapting Masamune Shirow’s manga of the same name — takes place in a sci-fi future where Major Motoko Kusanagi and Section 9 are tasked with apprehending a highly skilled hacker.
The movie was animated by the experienced studio Production I.G with crisp animation work and striking visuals. A critically acclaimed anime that holds up today, Ghost in the Shell is a stylish hybrid of neo-noir and cyberpunk genres akin to Ridley Scott’s Blade Runner.
Read less Street Fighter II: The Animated Movie (1994) 101m Animation, Action Kôjiro Shimizu, Kenji Haga, Miki Fujitani Gisaburō Sugii watch on Amazon watch on Amazon Capcom’s Street Fighter franchise is one of the pillars of the fighting genre in video games. Given that status, it was only a matter of time before that success led to multimedia adaptations.
Street Fighter II: The Animated Movie adapts the titular video game’s story to great effect.
The story involves the various iconic characters of the Street Fighter roster battling it out in M. Bison’s fighting tournament to decide who will be part of his organization’s plans for world domination. Animation studio Group TAC did excellent work in keeping the game’s original artistic style in character designs and recreating the high-octane action.
Read less New Initial D the Movie - Legend 2: Racer (2015) 62m Animation, Drama, Action Hiroaki Hirata, Hiroshi Tsuchida, Maaya Uchida Masamitsu Hidaka watch on Amazon watch on Amazon Writer Shuichi Shigeno’s Initial D manga series is iconic within the medium, and its anime adaptations have lived up to the prestige. Animation studios Liden Films and Sanzigen return for Initial D Legend 2: Racer , which condenses and recaps the early parts of the story covered in the source material and TV anime adaptation.
Following the surge in fame after the events of Legend 1: Awakening , Racer sees protagonist Takumi face a challenge from Takeshi Nakazato. The leader of the street-racing gang known as the Myogi NightKids, this challenger will put pressure on Takmu’s newfound reputation.
Read less New Initial D the Movie - Legend 1: Awakening (2014) 62m Animation, Action Mamoru Miyano, Yuichi Nakamura, Daisuke Ono Masamitsu Hidaka watch on Amazon watch on Amazon A manga and anime classic, Shuuichi Shigeno’s Initial D is perhaps the best racing-themed series in both mediums. Produced by animation studios Liden Films and Sanzigen, Initial D Legend 1: Awakening is a modernized remake and a movie adaptation of the classic story.
Covering the early parts of the manga, Awakening begins with protagonist and seemingly ordinary high schooler Takumi Fujiwara, who works as a gas station attendant and delivery boy for his father’s tofu restaurant. However, he’s also an elite street racer, leading to several gangs challenging him to test his mettle as a modern legend.
Read less Naruto (2002) tv-pg 4 Seasons Animation, Action & Adventure, Sci-Fi & Fantasy Junko Takeuchi, Noriaki Sugiyama, Chie Nakamura watch on Amazon watch on Amazon Back in the days when Weekly Shonen Jump Magazine’s “Big Three” reigned supreme, Naruto was helping lead the charge in manga alongside the likes of Bleach and One Piece.
 Masashi Kishimoto’s series was a phenomenon for both manga and anime on the international stage, and the original Naruto series still holds up as a nostalgic modern classic.
It follows young inspiring ninja and village outcast Naruto Uzumaki as he attempts to gain the respect of the Hidden Leaf Village and become its Hokage. Along the way, the series unravels multiple action-focused exploits and introduces a variety of colorful characters.
Read less Evangelion: 3.0 You Can (Not) Redo (2012) 96m Animation, Science Fiction, Action, Drama Megumi Ogata, Yuko Miyamura, Akira Ishida Hideaki Anno watch on Amazon watch on Amazon The penultimate installment in an anime movie reimagining, Evangelion: 3.0 You Can (Not) Redo begins 14 years after the cataclysmic event dubbed the Third Impact. Protagonist Shinji Ikari is trapped inside his Evangelion Unit-01 and is recovered by his friends and allies, only to find himself taken prisoner.
Who Shinji once thought of as his friends now treat him as hostile, casting suspicions and doubt on his character following the events of 2.0 You Can (Not) Advance.
 The Rebuild of Evangelion anime film series was a dragged-out process, but it all comes together thrillingly as a complete story after the finale, 3.0+1.0 Thrice Upon a Time.
Read less Kaiba (2008) tv-ma 1 Season Animation, Sci-Fi & Fantasy, Drama, Mystery, Action & Adventure Houko Kuwashima, Mamiko Noto, Romi Park watch on Amazon watch on Amazon An anime original series produced by studio Madhouse, Kaiba is one of the most conceptually and visually unique anime offerings available on the streamer. In a dystopian sci-fi future, life and death no longer carry the same meaning. People can view, alter, and transfer their memories to other bodies, effectively achieving a form of immortality.
Of course, this only benefits the rich who can afford to do so, while the vast majority of people are forced to sell their bodies as a means of simply getting by.
Kaiba has been praised for using its striking art direction and fluid animation to dazzle, while also offering some poignant social commentary.
Read less InuYasha (2000) tv-14 2 Seasons Animation, Sci-Fi & Fantasy, Action & Adventure, Comedy Kappei Yamaguchi, Satsuki Yukino watch on Amazon watch on Amazon Rumiko Takahashi’s InuYasha manga was a shonen classic from the ’90s. and animation studio Sunrise’s adaptation was similarly well-received. Fifteen-year-old Kagome Higurashi finds herself transported to Sengoku-era Japan and meets a half-dog demon named Inuyasha.
Kagome and Inuyasha adventure across the countryside together to gather the pieces of the powerful Shikon Jewel before it falls into the wrong hands.
InuYasha has been praised for its tasteful balance of action, fantastical setting, humor, and handling of darker themes.
Read less Evangelion: 2.0 You Can (Not) Advance (2009) 112m Animation, Science Fiction, Action, Drama Megumi Ogata, Megumi Hayashibara, Yuko Miyamura Hideaki Anno watch on Amazon watch on Amazon While it may appear daunting for the uninitiated, the Rebuild of Evangelion collection of anime movies is a great way to expand upon the original hit TV series. This franchise has been praised as some of the best anime ever created, and it’s among the most compelling sci-fi mecha IPs as well. The second installment in the four-movie collection, Evangelion 2.0: You Can (Not) Advance, continues the story of its predecessor, which follows the first six episodes of the TV anime almost exactly.
However, this sequel is where the story begins to notably deviate from the TV anime’s continuity, altering events from episodes 8-19 and even introducing new characters. It follows Shinji and company as they continue their fight as NERV pilots in the titular Evangelion mechs.
Read less Captain Tsubasa (2018) tv-g 1 Season Animation, Comedy, Drama Kenichi Suzumura, Ayaka Fukuhara, Yuko Sanpei Yôichi Takahashi watch on Amazon watch on Amazon Read less Evangelion: 1.0 You Are (Not) Alone (2007) 101m Animation, Science Fiction, Action, Drama Megumi Ogata, Megumi Hayashibara, Kotono Mitsuishi Hideaki Anno watch on Amazon watch on Amazon Read less Death Note (2006) tv-14 1 Season Animation, Mystery, Sci-Fi & Fantasy Mamoru Miyano, Noriko Hidaka, Nozomu Sasaki watch on Amazon watch on Amazon Read less JoJo's Bizarre Adventure (2012) tv-ma 5 Seasons Animation, Action & Adventure, Sci-Fi & Fantasy Fairouz Ai, Daisuke Ono, Mutsumi Tamura watch on Amazon watch on Amazon Read less Sagrada Reset (2017) new tv-14 1 Season Animation, Drama, Sci-Fi & Fantasy Kaito Ishikawa, Kana Hanazawa, Aoi Yuki watch on Amazon watch on Amazon Read less Lupin the Third (1971) new tv-14 6 Seasons Animation, Action & Adventure, Sci-Fi & Fantasy Kanichi Kurita, Daisuke Namikawa, Miyuki Sawashiro watch on Amazon watch on Amazon Read less Girls' Last Tour (2017) new tv-14 1 Season Mystery, Action & Adventure, Animation, Sci-Fi & Fantasy Yurika Kubo, Inori Minase, Kana Hanazawa watch on Amazon watch on Amazon Read less Kokkoku, Moment by Moment (2018) new 1 Season Animation, Drama, Mystery, Sci-Fi & Fantasy Ryuto Iwata, Kazuhiro Yamaji, Hirofumi Nojima watch on Amazon watch on Amazon Read less Hunter x Hunter (2011) tv-14 3 Seasons Action & Adventure, Animation, Drama Megumi Han, Mariya Ise, Miyuki Sawashiro watch on Amazon watch on Amazon Read less Blade of the Immortal (2019) new tv-ma 1 Season Animation, Drama, Action & Adventure Houko Kuwashima, Ayane Sakura, Kenjiro Tsuda watch on Amazon watch on Amazon Read less Great Teacher Onizuka (1999) tv-ma 1 Season Animation, Comedy, Drama Wataru Takagi, Junko Noda, Isshin Chiba watch on Amazon watch on Amazon Read less Psycho-Pass (2012) tv-ma 3 Seasons Sci-Fi & Fantasy, Animation, Action & Adventure Yuki Kaji, Kana Hanazawa, Yuichi Nakamura watch on Amazon watch on Amazon Read less Land of the Lustrous (2017) tv-14 1 Season Animation, Drama, Mystery, Action & Adventure, Sci-Fi & Fantasy Tomoyo Kurosawa, Rie Kugimiya, Mariya Ise watch on Amazon watch on Amazon Read less Grand Blue (2018) 1 Season Animation, Comedy Yuma Uchida, Ryohei Kimura, Chika Anzai watch on Amazon watch on Amazon Read less Evangelion: 3.0+1.0 Thrice Upon a Time (2021) 155m Animation, Action, Science Fiction, Drama Megumi Ogata, Yuko Miyamura, Megumi Hayashibara Hideaki Anno watch on Amazon watch on Amazon Read less Made In Abyss (2017) tv-ma 2 Seasons Animation, Drama, Action & Adventure, Sci-Fi & Fantasy watch on Amazon watch on Amazon Read less Grimoire of Zero (2017) tv-14 1 Season Animation, Sci-Fi & Fantasy, Action & Adventure, Drama, Comedy Yumiri Hanamori, Takehito Koyasu, Masayuki Katou Kobashiri Kakeru, Yoshinori Shizuma watch on Amazon watch on Amazon Based on a popular series of light novels, Grimoire of Zero centers on Zero, an experienced witch who must team with a mercenary to find a magical tome. Their relationship, combined with the epic scope of the series, help make it a standout among fantasy anime.
Read less Pokémon (1997) tv-y7 24 Seasons Animation, Action & Adventure, Sci-Fi & Fantasy Rica Matsumoto, Ikue Otani Satoshi Tajiri, Junichi Masuda, Ken Sugimori watch on Amazon watch on Amazon Read less Vinland Saga (2019) tv-ma 2 Seasons Animation, Action & Adventure, Drama Yuto Uemura, Naoya Uchida, Kensho Ono watch on Amazon watch on Amazon Vikings get the anime treatment in Vinland Saga , one of the newer entries on this list. The Vikings have dominated society for a thousand years and have an insatiable thirst for violence. Thorfinn grows up in this culture, spending much of his boyhood on a battlefield, building his skills to ultimately achieve revenge for his father’s murder.
Read less Dororo (2019) tv-ma 1 Season Animation, Action & Adventure Rio Suzuki, Hiroki Suzuki, Naoya Uchida watch on Amazon watch on Amazon Read less Best anime on Netflix Best shows on Amazon Prime Best shows on Hulu Best shows on HBO Best shows on Netflix Wotakoi: Love is Hard for Otaku (2018) tv-14 1 Season Comedy, Animation Itou Kento, Miyuki Sawashiro, Arisa Date watch on Amazon watch on Amazon A rom-com anime? Why not! Narumi changes jobs, only to reunite with Hirotaka, a childhood friend who has grown up into a good-looking, highly skilled employee. The two resume their chemistry from childhood and soon catch feelings for one another. However, they’re both secretly otaku — massive nerds. As such, a serious romantic relationship is difficult to find through all of the immense awkwardness.
Read less Elfen Lied (2004) tv-ma 1 Season Animation, Sci-Fi & Fantasy, Drama Chihiro Suzuki, Sanae Kobayashi, Emiko Hagiwara Lynn Okamoto watch on Amazon watch on Amazon An entertaining blend of science fiction, fantasy, and social commentary, Elfen Lied centers on Lucy, a member of the Diclonius species who has horn-life bone protusions on her forehead and possesses the power of telekinesis. The series chronicles Lucy’s journey as she struggles to escape being imprisoned just because she’s different and find the acceptance she has desired her entire life.
Read less Banana Fish (2018) tv-ma 1 Season Action & Adventure, Drama, Mystery, Animation Yoshimasa Hosoya, Jun Fukuyama, Unsho Ishizuka watch on Amazon watch on Amazon Ash Lynx is a 17-year-old gang leader on the streets of New York City, but he’s still under the thumb of mob boss Dino Golzine. When Ash discovers a mystery drug called “Banana Fish” on one of Dino’s men, Ash begins asking questions, falling down a rabbit hole that will draw him closer to the death of his older brother. There’s no telling just how high the conspiracy goes.
Read less Editors' Recommendations The best new shows to stream on Netflix, Hulu, Max (HBO), and more The best Hulu original series right now The 50 best anime on Hulu right now The best comedies on Netflix right now The best movies on Hulu right now (November 2023) Amazon Amazon Prime Video Best Products Streaming Guides Streaming Services Movie images and data from: Entertainment Michael Fassbender in The Killer Netflix / Netflix Halloween is gone, Christmas movies are coming around the corner, but the best new movies to stream on Netflix, Hulu, Prime Video, Max (HBO), and other services haven't fully made the switch to Christmas. There are some high-quality additions each week, though, including some Oscar bait. We're keeping track of all of it in this weekly roundup, so you always have something new to watch.
We also have guides to the best movies on Netflix, the best movies on Hulu, the best movies on Amazon Prime Video, and the best movies on HBO.
Entertainment When you need to keep the kids occupied for a while, it's helpful to know the best kids movies on Netflix right now.
Netflix has an enormous library of kid-friendly content, including a host of original choose-your-own-adventure stories, but it's natural as a parent to want to know what your kids is watching. So, to help you find something quickly, we keep tabs on the collection every month and surface the best options here.
Entertainment Netflix has grown into one of the best mainstream platforms to stream anime in recent years. Over the years, the streamer has served its animated catalog impressively well. Naturally, that dense library includes anime as well, and thanks to a respectable dose of original series and established hits, Netflix hosts some of the greatest anime to watch, spanning moves and TV shows of every genre a prospective fan could want.
Crunchyroll and Funimation are the primary streamers for the genre. Even so, considering the dominating presence Netflix has in the streaming market internationally, it's a worthy supplement. But even with how relatively mainstream the genre has become westward, it can still feel daunting to know where to start. Thankfully, this guide is consistently updated every month to help you pick from Netflix's library of excellent anime available now.
If you want more options, check out our other guides to the best anime on Hulu and the best anime available on Amazon Prime Video.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
