Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Netflix Original Movies Best Comedies on Netflix Best Netflix Original Series Best Anime on Netflix Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Fantasy Movies on Netflix Home Entertainment Guides The best dramas on Netflix right now By David Caballero , Nick Perry and Blair Marnell Close Since the release of its critically acclaimed war movie Beasts of No Nation , Netflix has built a strong library of movies and shows in every genre, from comedy to horror. However, the best dramas on Netflix have brought critical acclaim and audience respect to the streamer, preserving its impressive subscriber count and securing its place as the king of the streaming world. Now, multiple Best Picture nominees later, Netflix can afford to attract top talents like Killers of the Flower Moon ‘s Martin Scorsese , Alfonso Cuarón, Jane Campion, and David Fincher. The streamer has a remarkably strong dramatic library, boasting original, Oscar-nominated efforts and acquired beloved classics.
However, because of Netflix’s wide and diverse collection of quality films, it might be difficult for you to choose just one, especially because they’re not all as high-quality as others. To save you some time and effort, we’ve compiled a list of the best dramas on Netflix right now.
Netflix may be a treasure trove when it comes to content, but it doesn’t have everything. Thankfully, we’ve also curated a list of the best dramas on Hulu and the best drama shows on Amazon Prime Video.
Save on everything from laptops and tablets, to coffee makers and air purifiers, and a whole host of Apple tech like iPad, Apple Watch and even the latest M3 MacBooks, as well as smart home essentials like the Amazon Echo and smart bulbs.
Emily the Criminal r 2022 All Quiet on the Western Front r 2022 The Power of the Dog r 2021 Fair Play (2023) 113m Drama, Thriller Phoebe Dynevor, Alden Ehrenreich, Eddie Marsan Chloe Domont watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Alden Ehrenreich and Phoebe Dynevor star in Chloe Domont’s erotic thriller Fair Play.
 The plot centers on a young couple working at a hedge fund firm. When one gets an unexpected promotion over the other, their relationship slowly unravels. A glorious return for the long-dormant erotic thriller genre, Fair Play offers the same psychological thrills as classics like Fatal Attraction and Basic Instinct.
 Rising on the strength of its well-matched leads and Domont’s wicked screenplay, Fair Play is a biting, engaging, and steamy thriller that will keep audiences on edge.
Read less NYAD (2023) 121m Drama, History Jodie Foster, Annette Bening, Rhys Ifans Elizabeth Chai Vasarhelyi, Jimmy Chin watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Four-time Academy Award nominee Annette Bening and two-time Academy Award winner Jodie Foster star in the biographical drama Nyad.
 The directorial debut of Elizabeth Chai Vasarhelyi and Jimmy Chin, the film is based on Diana Nyad’s biography and chronicles her efforts to swim from Cuba to Florida without a shark cage. Featuring a traditional crowd-pleasing narrative elevated by the considerable talents of its two leads, Nyad is an uplifting sports drama that paints its real-life subject in a decidedly positive light.
The film has stirred controversy and reignited doubts about Nyad’s real-life swimming feats, adding another fascinating layer to this story.
Read less Gladiator (2000) 155m Action, Drama, Adventure Russell Crowe, Joaquin Phoenix, Connie Nielsen Ridley Scott watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Russell Crowe his first and so far only Oscar for his portrayal of general Maximus Decimus Meridius in Ridley Scott’s historical epic Gladiator.
 The film follows Maximus, a general forced into slavery after being betrayed by the new emperor, Commodus. With his family killed and his reputation ruined, Maximus becomes a gladiator and rises through the arena’s rankings on his quest for revenge. Even now, 23 years after its release, Gladiator still holds up ; the Oscar-winning epic is a riveting and rewarding revenge epic, deftly guided by Crowe and perfectly antagonized by a wickedly unforgettable Joaquin Phoenix.
Read less The Social Network (2010) 121m Drama Jesse Eisenberg, Andrew Garfield, Justin Timberlake David Fincher watch on Netflix watch on Netflix David Fincher’s Oscar-winning biographical drama The Social Network stars Jesse Eisenberg as Facebook founder Mark Zuckerberg. The film chronicles Facebook’s beginnings and the subsequent lawsuits over its creation and ownership. An instant classic that marked the millennial generation, The Social Network is a modern masterpiece and one of the most influential films of the past decade. Thanks to Fincher’s ambitious filmmaking, Aaron Sorkin’s insightful screenplay, and a cast of stellar performers, The Social Network is a revealing and intelligent exploration of one of the 21st century’s most important creations.
Read less The Impossible (2012) 113m Adventure, Drama, Thriller Naomi Watts, Ewan McGregor, Tom Holland J. A. Bayona watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Two-time Oscar nominee Naomi Watts and Ewan McGregor star in J. A. Bayona’s 2012 disaster drama The Impossible.
 Based on María Belón’s experience during the 2004 Indian Ocean tsunami, the film chronicles her family’s struggle to survive and reunite following the disaster.
The Impossible marks Tom Holland’s film debut and features a harrowing performance from Watts that earned her an Oscar nomination in 2013. Tough to watch but undeniably rewarding, The Impossible does justice to its incredible real-life story.
Read less The Devil All the Time (2020) 138m Crime, Drama, Thriller Tom Holland, Bill Skarsgård, Riley Keough Antonio Campos watch on Netflix watch on Netflix A large ensemble led by Spider-Man himself (Tom Holland) proves a major draw for Antonio Campos’ Southern Gothic thriller The Devil All the Time.
 Also starring Bill Skarsgård, Sebastian Stan, and Robert Pattinson, the film is set in the years following World War II and continues into the 1960s, following several storylines of revenge and violence in two Ohio towns.
Although harrowing and violent, The Devil All the Time provides a worthy showcase for its impressive cast and a suitably engrossing decades-spanning mystery. The film’s constant descent into darkness might be too much for some, but its storytelling approach, engrossing atmosphere, and excellent ensemble are reason enough to press play on this gothic nightmare.
Read less The King (2019) 140m Drama, History, War Timothée Chalamet, Joel Edgerton, Sean Harris David Michôd watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Academy Award nominee Timothée Chalamet stars in the 2019 historical drama The King.
 Drawing from several Shakespeare plays, the plot centers on the young King Henry V of England, chronicling his rise to power and his handling of the war against France. Featuring a stellar supporting cast, including Robert Pattinson as the Dauphin of France, The King is a riveting tale of court intrigue for fans of period pieces. It might not be a faithful retelling of history, but it features enough lush scenery and outstanding production values to satisfy viewers.
Read less To Leslie (2022) 119m Drama Andrea Riseborough, Andre Royo, Owen Teague Michael Morris watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Andrea Riseborough stars in Michael Morris’ 2022 drama To Leslie.
 The plot revolves around Leslie, a single mother struggling with alcoholism who starts working in a motel after squandering the money she won at the lottery.
To Leslie might be more famous for the controversial Oscar campaign that resulted in Riseborough’s much-discussed Best Actress nomination. However, the film is a haunting, poignant portrayal of addiction powered by Riseborough’s committed, passionate performance.
To Leslie ‘s plot is conventional, but Riseborough’s work is worth the price of admission.
Read less I'm Thinking of Ending Things (2020) 135m Drama, Fantasy, Mystery, Thriller Jesse Plemons, Jessie Buckley, Toni Collette Charlie Kaufman watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Charlie Kaufman’s surrealist, genre-bending 2020 film I’m Thinking of Ending Things stars Oscar nominees Jessie Buckley and Jesse Plemons. It follows a young woman on a trip to visit her boyfriend’s parents. The story is intercut with scenes of a school janitor at work, adding to the film’s layered and challenging narrative.
I’m Thinking of Ending Things will leave audiences scratching their heads, as it offers multiple questions and no answers. However, the film is also among the most daring and thought-provoking Netflix originals, making it required viewing for fans of intricate and slightly frustrating narratives.
Read less Lady Chatterley's Lover (2022) 126m Drama, Romance Emma Corrin, Jack O'Connell, Matthew Duckett Laure de Clermont-Tonnerre watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Read less The Dig (2021) 112m Drama, History Carey Mulligan, Ralph Fiennes, Lily James Simon Stone watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Academy Award nominee Carey Mulligan and Harry Potter ‘s Ralph Fiennes star opposite Lily James in the 2021 historical drama The Dig.
 The plot dramatizes the real-life story of Edith Pretty and Basil Brown and his 1939 excavation on her land in Sutton Hoo. Although the plot might not sound like a prime source for a compelling drama, The Dig is a rich and gorgeously-shot story about friendship, legacy, and the importance of the past. Mulligan and Fiennes are at their usual best, while Mike Eley’s cinematography perfectly captures the lush vistas of the English countryside.
Read less Prisoners (2013) 153m Drama, Thriller, Crime Hugh Jackman, Jake Gyllenhaal, Maria Bello Denis Villeneuve watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Denis Villeneuve’s 2013 drama Prisoners is among the best thrillers of the 2010s. Jake Gyllenhaal and Hugh Jackman star as a detective and a desperate father looking into the disappearance of two young girls in Pennsylvania. With a stellar supporting cast, including Viola Davis, Melissa Leo, and Paul Dano, and Villeneuve’s assured hand behind the camera, Prisoners is a challenging and riveting mystery. The film benefits from a lingering sense of dread dominating every scene, with Jackman delivering a career-best performance in service of a thrilling and twisting story.
Read less The Wonder (2022) 108m Drama, Mystery Florence Pugh, Kíla Lord Cassidy, Tom Burke Sebastián Lelio watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Sebastián Lelio’s 2022 period psychological drama The Wonder stars Academy Award nominee Florence Pugh. Based on the eponymous 2016 novel, the film follows an English nurse sent to a rural village to observe a young girl who has seemingly survived for months without eating. Led by a remarkable turn from Pugh and benefitting from Lelio’s atmospheric approach, The Wonder is a fascinating look at faith and prejudice that ranks as one of Netflix’s most ambitious original efforts.
Read less The Woman King (2022) 135m Action, Drama, History Viola Davis, Thuso Mbedu, Lashana Lynch Gina Prince-Bythewood watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Academy Award winner Viola Davis leads an impressive ensemble cast in Gina Prince-Bythewood’s historical epic The Woman King.
 Davis plays General Nanisca, the leader of an all-female group of warriors, the Agojie, tasked with protecting the kingdom of Dahomey.
As Nanisca trains the next generation of warriors, a foreign threat forces the Agojie to defend their kingdom and way of life.
The Woman King received praise for its cast and action sequences, with many considering it among the best films of 2022. Unfortunately, it received no recognition from the Academy, with Davis’ snub in the Best Actress category being particularly controversial.
Read less Carol (2015) 118m Romance, Drama Rooney Mara, Cate Blanchett, Sarah Paulson Todd Haynes watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Acclaimed director Todd Haynes united Oscar winner Cate Blanchett and Oscar nominee Rooney Mara in the sweeping romantic drama Carol.
 The film follows the blossoming romance between Carol Aird, a mature woman going through a divorce, and Therese Belivet, an aspiring photographer, in 1950s New York.
Carol received universal acclaim from critics, who praised Haynes’ direction, Blanchett and Mara’s performances, and the film’s screenplay and production values.
Carol often ranks among critics’ best movies of the 2010s, cementing its place as a modern classic.
Read less Mudbound (2017) 135m Drama Carey Mulligan, Jason Clarke, Jason Mitchell Dee Rees watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Dee Rees directs the 2017 historical drama Mudbound.
 Set in World War II, the film centers on two veterans dealing with severe PTSD returning from the war as their families struggle with poverty in rural Mississippi. Carey Mulligan, Garrett Hedlund, Jason Clarke, and Mary J. Blige star.
Mudbound received acclaim from critics, with the cast attracting near-universal praise. Blige earned considerable praise, including an Oscar nomination for Best Supporting Actress and one for Best Original Song for the film’s theme, Mighty River.
Read less The Harder They Fall (2021) 139m Western Jonathan Majors, Idris Elba, Regina King Jeymes Samuel watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Jeymes Samuel makes his feature directorial debut with The Harder They Fall , starring Jonathan Majors, Idris Elba, Zazie Beetz, Regina King, Delroy Lindo, and Lakeith Stanfield. The plot centers on an outlaw who reunites his gang upon realizing his long-time enemy will soon get released from prison.
The Harder They Fall is among the few Westerns with an all-Black cast, with characters loosely based on real-life figures from the American West.
Read less Emily the Criminal (2022) new r 97m Crime, Drama, Thriller Aubrey Plaza, Theo Rossi, Megalyn Echikunwoke John Patton Ford watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Read less Da 5 Bloods (2020) r 156m War, Drama Delroy Lindo, Jonathan Majors, Clarke Peters Spike Lee watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Spike Lee directs an ensemble cast including Delroy Lindo — robbed of an Oscar nomination — Jonathan Majors, and the late Chadwick Boseman in Da 5 Bloods.
 The plot follows a group of four aging Black Vietnam veterans who return to the country to retrieve the remains of their squad leader and the gold treasure they buried during their war days.
Read less Hustle (2022) r 118m Drama, Comedy Adam Sandler, Queen Latifah, Juancho Hernangómez Jeremiah Zagar watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Read less Roma (2018) r 135m Drama Yalitza Aparicio, Marina de Tavira, Diego Cortina Autrey Alfonso Cuarón watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Read less All Quiet on the Western Front (2022) new r 147m Action, Drama, History, War Felix Kammerer, Albrecht Schuch, Aaron Hilmer Edward Berger watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Read less Phantom Thread (2017) 130m Drama, Romance Daniel Day-Lewis, Vicky Krieps, Lesley Manville Paul Thomas Anderson watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Read less The Lost Daughter (2021) r 122m Drama Olivia Colman, Jessie Buckley, Dakota Johnson Maggie Gyllenhaal watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Read less The Power of the Dog (2021) new r 127m Drama, Western Benedict Cumberbatch, Kirsten Dunst, Jesse Plemons Jane Campion watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Read less Passing (2021) pg-13 98m Drama Tessa Thompson, Ruth Negga, André Holland Rebecca Hall watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Read less The Fundamentals of Caring (2016) pg-13 97m Comedy, Drama Paul Rudd, Craig Roberts, Selena Gomez Rob Burnett watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Read less The Trial of the Chicago 7 (2020) r 130m Drama, History Eddie Redmayne, Sacha Baron Cohen, Joseph Gordon-Levitt Aaron Sorkin watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Read less Pieces of a Woman (2020) r 127m Drama Vanessa Kirby, Shia LaBeouf, Ellen Burstyn Kornél Mundruczó watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Read less Ma Rainey's Black Bottom (2020) r 94m Drama, Music Viola Davis, Chadwick Boseman, Glynn Turman George C. Wolfe watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Read less Mank (2020) r 132m Drama, History Gary Oldman, Amanda Seyfried, Lily Collins David Fincher watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Read less Concrete Cowboy (2020) r 111m Drama, Western Idris Elba, Caleb McLaughlin, Jharrel Jerome Ricky Staub watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Read less Marriage Story (2019) r 137m Drama Adam Driver, Scarlett Johansson, Laura Dern Noah Baumbach watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Read less The Two Popes (2019) pg-13 125m Drama, Comedy, History Anthony Hopkins, Jonathan Pryce, Juan Minujín Fernando Meirelles watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Read less The Irishman (2019) r 209m Crime, Drama, History Robert De Niro, Al Pacino, Joe Pesci Martin Scorsese watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Read less Editors' Recommendations The best new shows to stream on Netflix, Hulu, Max (HBO), and more The 50 best shows on Netflix in November 2023 The best movies and shows on Shudder right now (November 2023) The best Black movies on Netflix right now The 10 most popular movies on Netflix right now Best Products Netflix Streaming Guides Streaming Services Movie images and data from: Entertainment The best feel-good movies on Netflix right now include plenty of romantic comedies to watch while snuggling up with your partner, pet, or favorite blanket.
There's also a concert tour documentary courtesy of Taylor Swift, which is particularly topical due to the singing sensation's dominance of the pop culture zeitgeist. We've sorted through the best feel-good movies on Netflix and feel good about the list below.
Entertainment It's not hard to find a great comedy movie on Netflix. Unlike some other genres like sci-fi and fantasy, Netflix keeps its lineup of comedies well-stocked with some recent box-office hits, like Jennifer Lawrence's No Hard Feelings, as well as classic titles on loan from other studios and a lot of original films. This month's new additions include the first theatrical adaptation of The Addams Family, The Big Lebowski, and Scott Pilgrim vs. the World. It's pretty hard to go wrong with those flicks.
Comedies come and go, which is why it's important to stay glued to what's new on Netflix. If you're looking for laughs, these are the best comedies on Netflix right now.
Entertainment You're going to see a lot of Christmas movies on Hulu through the end of the year. 'Tis the season for the Huludays, after all. While we'll go over your Christmas options at a later date, this month's selections of the best movies on Hulu feature a new original film, Quiz Lady, as well as A Haunting in Venice, which recently finished its theatrical run. The other prominent new additions are Jumanji: Welcome to the Jungle and the comedy biopic Driven.
Need help keeping up with everything new on Hulu? Every month, we go over the greatest films that Hulu has to offer while keeping track of what's coming and going. That's why our update of the best movies on Hulu is always current. We're here to help you plan your next movie night.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
