Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix F1 Live Stream Stranger Things Season 5 Best New Movies Most Popular Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney+ UFC Live Stream Best Movies on Disney+ Home Entertainment Guides The best horror movies on Amazon Prime right now By Michael Bizzaco and Christine Persaud Close When it comes to horror movies, one of the best places to catch the genre’s latest and greatest entries is with an Amazon Prime Video subscription. That being said, scrolling through the platform’s many terror titles can be a terrorizing endeavor unto itself. Let’s just say there are plenty of duds out there, which is why it’s our job to unearth Prime Video’s best horror content.
Our monthly roundup includes some of the platform’s newest movies, as well as some celebrated horror classics. So strap in, dim the lights, and get ready to scream! Here are the best horror movies you can stream on Prime Video for November 2023.
Want more Prime Video content? Check out the best movies on Prime Video right now. If you don’t see anything of note on Amazon Prime, we’ve also rounded up the best horror movies on Netflix and the best horror movies on Hulu.
Save on everything from laptops and tablets, to coffee makers and air purifiers, and a whole host of Apple tech like iPad, Apple Watch and even the latest M3 MacBooks, as well as smart home essentials like the Amazon Echo and smart bulbs.
Renfield (2023) r 93m Comedy, Horror, Fantasy Nicholas Hoult, Nicolas Cage, Awkwafina Chris McKay watch on Amazon watch on Amazon Read less Saw (2004) r 103m Horror, Mystery, Crime Cary Elwes, Leigh Whannell, Danny Glover James Wan watch on Amazon watch on Amazon Read less As Above, So Below (2014) r 93m Horror, Thriller Perdita Weeks, Ben Feldman, Edwin Hodge John Erick Dowdle watch on Amazon watch on Amazon Read less Knock at the Cabin (2023) r 100m Horror, Thriller, Mystery Dave Bautista, Jonathan Groff, Ben Aldridge M. Night Shyamalan watch on Amazon watch on Amazon An adaptation of Paul G. Tremblay’s The Cabin at the End of the World , writer/director M. Night Shyamalan brings us Knock at the Cabin , the kind of closed-quarters horror flick that will remind us that idyllic trips to the middle of the woods may not be the greatest idea. Our story follows seven-year-old Wen (Kristen Cui) and her fathers, Eric and Andrew (Jonathan Groff and Ben Aldridge), three people minding their own business who are suddenly intruded upon and held captive by a gang of apocalyptic prophesiers led by Leonard Brocht (Dave Bautista).
According to the doomsday crew, if the family doesn’t sacrifice one of their own, a series of global tragedies will consume the world. It’s your typical nail-biting siege pic, with a bunch of characters stuck under one roof for a majority of the runtime, but Knock at the Cabin gets a big boost from its excellent cast, with Dave Bautista being an empathetic standout. Yes, he could kill you by looking at you for too long, but Mr. Brocht could also make you a shed a tear or two.
Read less There's Something Wrong with the Children (2023) r 92m Horror, Mystery, Thriller Zach Gilford, Alisha Wainwright, Amanda Crew Roxanne Benjamin watch on Amazon watch on Amazon Directed by Roxanne Benjamin from a script by T.J. Cimfel and David White, There’s Something Wrong with the Children stars Alisha Wainwright and Zach Gilford as Margaret and Ben, a couple who take a trip into the wilderness with fellow adults Ellie and Thomas (Amanda Crew and Carlos Santos) and their two kids, Lucy (Briella Guiza) and Spencer (David Mattle). Everything is going peachy-keen until the dawn of a new day. After disappearing into the forest, Lucy and Spencer are acting quite strange upon their return.
Is something supernatural afoot, or did the kids just have too many marshmallows? Cut from the same cloth as films like A24’s horror movie A Hole in the Ground and Amazon’s remake of Goodnight Mommy (swap the weird kids for a weird parent), There’s Something Wrong … isn’t bringing the most original premise to the table, but where this Blumhouse-produced entry truly succeeds is with its foreboding camera work, editing, and haunting score.
Read less M3GAN (2022) pg-13 102m Science Fiction, Horror Allison Williams, Violet McGraw, Jenna Davis Gerard Johnstone watch on Amazon watch on Amazon Read less The Battery (2012) r 101m Drama, Horror Jeremy Gardner, Adam Cronheim, Niels Bolle Jeremy Gardner watch on Amazon watch on Amazon Written, directed, produced, and starring Jeremy Gardner, The Battery follows the postapocalyptic day-to-day lives of two former baseball players, Ben (Gardner) and Mickey (Adam Cronheim). Constantly at each other’s throats, these two survivors of the undead takeover are forced to wander the desolate remains of New England. While searching an abandoned property, Ben and Mickey discover two walkie-talkies.
While testing the radios, they stumble upon a transmission from a nearby group of survivors. Mickey wants to join the marauders, but Ben seems to have his doubts. Shot in just 15 days in Connecticut for only $6,000, The Battery is proof that you don’t need flashy CGI to tell a captivating, horrific, and inspiring story.
Read less Jigsaw (2017) r 92m Horror, Crime, Mystery, Thriller Matt Passmore, Tobin Bell, Callum Keith Rennie Michael Spierig, Peter Spierig watch on Amazon watch on Amazon The eight film in the still-ongoing Saw franchise, 2017’s Jigsaw plays to the typical Saw film formula: Unsuspecting victims are forced to participate in a series of deadly games curated by whatever notorious malcontent is calling themselves “Jigsaw” this time around.
But with the O.G. serial killer, John Kramer, dead in the ground for over a decade, who exactly is still willing and able to pull the murderous strings? Like the many lesser versions of the original film that came before it, Jigsaw doesn’t stray too far from the grisly visuals that the series is known for. That being said, it’s still a decent watch, especially for longtime fans of the saga.
Read less The Taking of Deborah Logan (2014) r 90m Horror, Mystery, Thriller Jill Larson, Anne Ramsay, Michelle Ang Adam Robitel watch on Amazon watch on Amazon The directorial debut of Adam Robitel, The Taking of Deborah Logan follows a group of documentary filmmakers who are looking to produce a film about the crippling affects of Alzheimer’s disease. Their main subject is a woman named Deborah Logan (Jill Larson), a sufferer of dementia who begins experiencing erratic behavior. According to Deborah’s physicians, her behavior is par for the course, but when these eccentricities begin developing links to terrifying crimes and supernatural phenomena, the documentarians realize that their very lives are at stake. A found-footage gem that many fans of the sub-genre will enjoy, The Taking of Deborah Logan is a lesser-known horror entry that doesn’t get talked about as much as it should.
Read less Smile (2022) r 115m Horror, Mystery, Thriller Sosie Bacon, Kyle Gallner, Caitlin Stasey Parker Finn watch on Amazon watch on Amazon The feature film debut of writer-director Parker Finn, Smile stars Sosie Bacon as Dr. Rose Cotter, a psychiatrist who finds herself haunted by disturbing specters and other supernatural phenomena after one of her patients ends her life right in front of her. As the days and weeks go by, Rose starts losing her grip on reality, leading her to do a bit of investigating into her client’s demise.
Her discovery: a morbid and long-spanning connect-the-dots of self-mutilation. Leaning on jump-scares (albeit some very good ones) and measured performances to spin its terror threads, Smile may feel familiar to many fans of the genre, but who said wearing your influences on your sleeve has to be a bad thing? Read less Halloween Ends (2022) r 111m Horror, Thriller Jamie Lee Curtis, Andi Matichak, Rohan Campbell David Gordon Green watch on Amazon watch on Amazon Serving as the bookend to writer-director David Gordon Green’s trilogy of Halloween films (made up of 2018’s Halloween and 2021’s Halloween Kills ), Halloween Ends decides to go totally off-formula for its final run with the infamous Michael Myers character, focusing instead on two returning characters: Laurie Strode (Jamie Lee Curtis) and her granddaughter Allyson (Andi Matichak), one new face (Rohan Campbell), and three intertwined stories of survival in the wake of tragedy.
Don’t worry fans, for even though it takes Myers a solid forty minutes-plus to join the fray, once he makes himself known, we’re treated to one of the gutsiest and most polarizing depictions of the madmen once billed as “The Shape.” Read less Cropsey (2009) r 84m Mystery, Documentary, Horror, Crime Joshua Zeman, Barbara Brancaccio, Bill Ellis Joshua Zeman, Barbara Brancaccio watch on Amazon watch on Amazon Cropsey is the kind of documentary that has us wishing there were more documentaries just like it; and even if you’re a horror fan who never treads the waters of non-fiction, we highly recommend giving this one a go. Produced and directed by Joshua Zeman and Barbara Brancaccio, Cropsey explores the titular urban legend, a monster of a man who preyed upon five New York City children through the ‘70s and ‘80s.
But far more than a wandering wraith, the filmmakers discover that the horrible acts of convicted child kidnapper Andre Rand may be at the root of the decades-old myth. Profound and disturbing, Cropsey has gained quite the following over the last 15 years or so, and for good reason: it’s a sensational and disturbingly horrific doc that’s worth your time.
Read less Beast (2022) r 93m Thriller, Action, Adventure, Horror Idris Elba, Leah Sava Jeffries, Iyana Halley Baltasar Kormákur watch on Amazon watch on Amazon Read less The Oak Room (2020) 89m Thriller, Horror, Mystery RJ Mitte, Peter Outerbridge, Ari Millen Cody Calahan watch on Amazon watch on Amazon Based on the Peter Genoway play of the same name, director Cody Calahan’s The Oak Room stars Breaking Bad alum RJ Mitte and Peter Outerbridge as Steve and Paul. Hoping to settle a long-ago score, a homecoming Steve (Mitte) returns to a bar he once frequented, where he decides to trade harrowing stories with the miserly barkeep. It’s these chilling words that possess a greater part of the film, with the various vignettes delivering countless twists and turns throughout the runtime.
Read less My Best Friend's Exorcism (2022) r 96m Horror, Comedy Elsie Fisher, Amiah Miller, Rachel Ogechi Kanu Damon Thomas watch on Amazon watch on Amazon Read less Goodnight Mommy (2022) r 91m Horror, Drama, Thriller Naomi Watts, Cameron Crovetti, Nicholas Crovetti Matt Sobel watch on Amazon watch on Amazon Read less The Collector (2009) r 88m Horror, Thriller Josh Stewart, Juan Fernández, Michael Reilly Burke Marcus Dunstan watch on Amazon watch on Amazon Read less Candyman (2021) r 91m Horror Yahya Abdul-Mateen II, Teyonah Parris, Colman Domingo Nia DaCosta watch on Amazon watch on Amazon Read less Saint Maud (2020) r 85m Drama, Horror, Mystery Morfydd Clark, Jennifer Ehle, Lily Frazer Rose Glass watch on Amazon watch on Amazon Read less The Deeper You Dig (2019) r 95m Horror, Drama John Adams, Toby Poser, Zelda Adams Toby Poser, John Adams watch on Amazon watch on Amazon Read less My Heart Can't Beat Unless You Tell It To (2021) r 89m Drama, Horror Patrick Fugit, Ingrid Sophie Schram, Owen Campbell Jonathan Cuartas watch on Amazon watch on Amazon Read less Madres (2021) r 83m Horror Ariana Guerra, Tenoch Huerta, Elpidia Carrillo Ryan Zaragoza watch on Amazon watch on Amazon Read less Black as Night (2021) r 87m Horror, Thriller Asjha Cooper, Fabrizio Guido, Craig Tate Maritte Lee Go watch on Amazon watch on Amazon Read less Nocturne (2020) r 90m Horror, Mystery, Thriller, Music Sydney Sweeney, Madison Iseman, Jacques Colimon Zu Quirke watch on Amazon watch on Amazon Nocturne stars Sydney Sweeney ( Euphoria , White Lotus ) and Madison Iseman ( I Know What You Did Last Summer ) as twin sisters Juliet and Vivian. Accomplished pianists attending a prestigious music school, Vivian’s abilities are near-virtuoso and always a step above Juliet’s hands. That is until Juliet comes into the possession of a music theory book from a student that had jumped to her death. As the tome begins granting Juliet newfound confidence and dedication to the piano, her inflated ego meshes with a series of supernatural events that threaten her own life and the safety of those around her.
Read less The Manor (2021) r 81m Horror Barbara Hershey, Nicholas Alexander, Bruce Davison Axelle Carolyn watch on Amazon watch on Amazon Read less We Are Still Here (2015) r 84m Horror Barbara Crampton, Andrew Sensenig, Lisa Marie Ted Geoghegan watch on Amazon watch on Amazon Read less Bingo Hell (2021) r 85m Thriller Adriana Barraza, L. Scott Caldwell, Clayton Landey Gigi Saúl Guerrero watch on Amazon watch on Amazon Read less Best horror movies on Netflix Best horror movies on Hulu Best mysteries on Netflix Best sci-fi movies on Amazon Prime Hellraiser (1987) r 94m Horror Ashley Laurence, Andrew Robinson, Clare Higgins Clive Barker watch on Amazon watch on Amazon Read less Black Box (2020) r 100m Horror, Science Fiction, Thriller Mamoudou Athie, Phylicia Rashād, Amanda Christine Emmanuel Osei-Kuffour, Jr.
watch on Amazon watch on Amazon Read less The Neon Demon (2016) r 118m Thriller, Horror Elle Fanning, Jena Malone, Desmond Harrington Nicolas Winding Refn watch on Amazon watch on Amazon Read less The Reef (2010) r 88m Drama, Horror, Thriller Damian Walshe-Howling, Zoe Naylor, Adrienne Pickering Andrew Traucki watch on Amazon watch on Amazon Read less Suspiria (2018) r 152m Horror, Thriller Dakota Johnson, Tilda Swinton, Mia Goth Luca Guadagnino watch on Amazon watch on Amazon Read less Editors' Recommendations The 50 best movies on Netflix right now (November 2023) The best Hulu original series right now The 50 best anime on Hulu right now The 10 most popular movies on Netflix right now The best feel-good movies on Netflix right now Amazon Best Products Streaming Guides Movie images and data from: Entertainment It's not hard to find a great comedy movie on Netflix. Unlike some other genres like sci-fi and fantasy, Netflix keeps its lineup of comedies well-stocked with some recent box-office hits, like Jennifer Lawrence's No Hard Feelings, as well as classic titles on loan from other studios and a lot of original films. This month's new additions include the first theatrical adaptation of The Addams Family, The Big Lebowski, and Scott Pilgrim vs. the World. It's pretty hard to go wrong with those flicks.
Comedies come and go, which is why it's important to stay glued to what's new on Netflix. If you're looking for laughs, these are the best comedies on Netflix right now.
Entertainment You're going to see a lot of Christmas movies on Hulu through the end of the year. 'Tis the season for the Huludays, after all. While we'll go over your Christmas options at a later date, this month's selections of the best movies on Hulu feature a new original film, Quiz Lady, as well as A Haunting in Venice, which recently finished its theatrical run. The other prominent new additions are Jumanji: Welcome to the Jungle and the comedy biopic Driven.
Need help keeping up with everything new on Hulu? Every month, we go over the greatest films that Hulu has to offer while keeping track of what's coming and going. That's why our update of the best movies on Hulu is always current. We're here to help you plan your next movie night.
Entertainment Michael Fassbender in The Killer Netflix / Netflix Halloween is gone, Christmas movies are coming around the corner, but the best new movies to stream on Netflix, Hulu, Prime Video, Max (HBO), and other services haven't fully made the switch to Christmas. There are some high-quality additions each week, though, including some Oscar bait. We're keeping track of all of it in this weekly roundup, so you always have something new to watch.
We also have guides to the best movies on Netflix, the best movies on Hulu, the best movies on Amazon Prime Video, and the best movies on HBO.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
