Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix F1 Live Stream Stranger Things Season 5 Best New Movies Most Popular Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney+ UFC Live Stream Best Movies on Disney+ Home Entertainment Guides The best horror movies on Hulu right now By David Caballero Close Horror is more popular than ever, with new offerings in theaters every month. These chilling films soon make their way to major streamers, and few services have collections as strong as Hulu’s. Indeed, the best horror movies on Hulu include a healthy mix of everything fans might be looking for. Whether you’re seeking mind-twisting psychological thrillers, bloody slashers, disturbing supernatural fare, atmospheric folk horror, or every other possible subgenre imaginable, Hulu’s got you covered.
In fact, Hulu’s horror collection is so large that it might be easy to get lost in it. And unfortunately, some movies might not be worth your precious time. To help, we’ve already done all the digging, collecting a list of the best horror movies on Hulu to scratch your scary movie itch and keep you up at night. So, without further ado, here’s our roundup of the best horror movies on Hulu you can stream right now.
Hulu isn’t home to only horror titles. We’ve also put together guides to everything coming to Hulu in October , the best Hulu original series and the best anime on Hulu.
X 2022 Pooka! r 2018 Spree r 2020 The Boogeyman (2023) 99m Horror, Thriller, Mystery Sophie Thatcher, Vivien Lyra Blair, Chris Messina Rob Savage watch on Hulu watch on Hulu Rob Savage’s The Boogeyman is loosely based on Stephen King’s 1973 short story of the same name. The plot centers on a family of three grieving the recent death of their matriarch. When a desperate man goes to their home seeking help, he introduces an evil entity that preys on people’s suffering.
The Boogeyman offerssome solid scares and makes the most of its premise. It might not reach the heights of King’s infamously chilling story, but The Boogeyman remains a worthy entry into the ever-expanding world of modern horror.
Read less The 50 best movies on Netflix right now (November 2023) The best Hulu original series right now The 50 best anime on Hulu right now No One Will Save You (2023) 93m Horror, Science Fiction, Thriller Kaitlyn Dever, Elizabeth Kaluev, Zack Duhame Brian Duffield watch on Hulu watch on Hulu Emmy-nominee Kaitlyn Dever stars in Brian Duffield’s 2023 horror film No One Will Save You.
 The plot centers on an anxious introvert living in her childhood home who must battle an alien trying to invade her space. A nearly silent nightmare with only five audible pieces of dialogue, No One Will Save You is an atmospheric and electrifying home invasion thriller. Dever commands the screen, deftly guiding the plot using only the strength of her incredibly expressive face.
Read less Scary Stories to Tell in the Dark (2019) 108m Horror, Thriller Zoe Colletti, Dean Norris, Michael Garza André Øvredal watch on Hulu watch on Hulu André Øvredal and produced by Guillermo del Toro, Scary Stories to Tell in the Dark is a creepy and nightmarish experience that does justice to its source material. It includes enough fan service to satiate lovers of the books while remaining accessible enough for newcomers.
Read less The Village (2004) 108m Drama, Mystery, Thriller Bryce Dallas Howard, Joaquin Phoenix, Adrien Brody M. Night Shyamalan watch on Hulu watch on Hulu M. Night Shyamalan’s infamously divisive 2004 period thriller The Village remains controversial nearly 20 years after its release. Bryce Dallas Howard leads an impressive ensemble in the story of a secluded village terrorized by mysterious creatures living in the vast woods surrounding it. While the film’s now-notorious twist ending continues to be polarizing, The Village succeeds as a creepy and gorgeously mounted period piece, brilliantly led by Howard and Joaquin Phoenix’s tender, committed performances.
Read less Se7en (1995) 127m Crime, Mystery, Thriller Morgan Freeman, Brad Pitt, Gwyneth Paltrow David Fincher watch on Hulu watch on Hulu David Fincher’s horror-psychological thriller Se7en remains a highly regarded part of his impressive resumé. Morgan Freeman and Brad Pitt star as two detectives pursuing a killer targeting victims in ways that represent the seven deadly sins. Brutal, grizzly, and ruthless, Se7en is an impactful and haunting thriller that ranks among Fincher’s best efforts. The plot is tight and relentless, but it’s the memorable, borderline traumatizing ending that will remain with audiences long after the credits roll.
Read less Pearl (2022) 102m Drama, Horror Mia Goth, David Corenswet, Tandi Wright Ti West watch on Hulu watch on Hulu Mia Goth reunites with Ti West for the 2022 slasher film Pearl.
 A prequel to the duo’s acclaimed horror movie X , Pearl offers a backstory for the titular character, exploring her dreams of stardom and the circumstances that led her to become bitter and murderous. Elevated by Goth’s stunning performance, Pearl is a riveting character study disguised as a slasher. It offers enough thrills and gore to satisfy genre fans, but Pearl goes deep into the titular character’s broken psyche, adding rich emotional layers to a traditional horror story.
Read less The Craft (1996) 101m Horror, Drama, Fantasy Robin Tunney, Fairuza Balk, Neve Campbell Andrew Fleming watch on Hulu watch on Hulu The Craft stars Robin Tunney, Fairuza Balk, Neve Campbell, and Rachel True. The plot follows four teenage outcasts who become involved with witchcraft, exploiting it for their personal gain, only to discover the heavy repercussions it carries. A classic of ’90s teen horror, The Craft expertly blends supernatural terror with the classic tropes expected from a teen movie. The result is an entertaining, surprisingly quotable, and endlessly chilling movie that boasts an unforgettable premise and a tour de force performance from the ever-underrated Fairuza Balk.
Read less Skinamarink (2023) 100m Horror Lucas Paul, Dali Rose Tetreault, Ross Paul Kyle Edward Ball watch on Hulu watch on Hulu Canadian irrational horror film Skinamarink went viral on social media earlier this year. The film follows two children who wake up at night to realize their father is gone and their home’s windows and doors have vanished.
Skinamarink is among the most recent examples of the audience-versus-critics divide. The latter praised its daring nature and themes, while many viewers found it frustrating and boring. However, Skinamarink remains provocative, intriguing, and above all scary, thanks to an atmospheric approach that will leave audiences shaking.
Read less Malignant (2021) 111m Horror, Mystery, Thriller Annabelle Wallis, Maddie Hasson, George Young James Wan watch on Hulu watch on Hulu James Wan’s Malignant is among the most notorious horror films of the last few years. Annabelle Wallis stars as Madison, a woman experiencing disturbing visions that she soon realizes are actually happening.
Malignant is shocking, unhinged, and full of the same striking visuals that made Wan a star in the horror genre. It might not rank among the director’s scariest efforts, but it makes up for it with bravado, sufficient gore, and a spectacularly deranged twist that puts M. Night Shyamalan to shame.
Read less The Babadook (2014) 94m Drama, Horror Essie Davis, Noah Wiseman, Hayley McElhinney Jennifer Kent watch on Hulu watch on Hulu The 2014 Australian psychological horror picture The Babadook is based on director Jennifer Kent’s 2005 short Monster.
 The film tells the story of a single mother reeling from her husband’s death who must confront her son’s fear of a monster lurking in their house. Clever and genuinely terrifying, The Babadook is a triumph of the horror genre, boasting a compelling and emotional story rooted in raw and real feelings most audiences will sympathize with. An eerie atmosphere and a singularly creepy villain further make The Babadook the perfect marriage between art and horror.
Read less Villains (2019) 90m Comedy, Horror, Drama Bill Skarsgård, Maika Monroe, Kyra Sedgwick Robert Olsen, Dan Berk watch on Hulu watch on Hulu Modern horror icon Bill Skarsgård joins Maika Monroe, Jeffrey Donovan, and Kyra Sedgwick in Derek Berk and Robert Olsen’s 2019 black comedy/horror movie Villains.
 The plot revolves around Mickey and Jules, two lovebirds whose car breaks down after they ineptly rob a bank. Seeking refuge in a nearby house, the couple stumbles upon a dark secret lurking in the basement. Wickedly funny and featuring impressive performances from its talented cast, Villains is a horror comedy for those looking for some laughs to go with their screams.
Read less The Amityville Horror (1979) 118m Horror James Brolin, Margot Kidder, Rod Steiger Stuart Rosenberg watch on Hulu watch on Hulu James Brolin and Margot Kidder star in the 1979 supernatural horror classic The Amityville Horror.
 Based on the 1977 novel, the plot follows a young couple who purchase a home and begin experiencing supernatural events from a violent malign presence. With its dreadful atmosphere and perpetually bleak tone, The Amityville Horror is a psychological nightmare that will make audiences question everything that’s on-screen. The film uses very real fears about domesticity and ownership to tell an effectively chilling, if slightly repetitive, horror story.
Read less The Silence of the Lambs (1991) 119m Crime, Drama, Thriller Jodie Foster, Anthony Hopkins, Scott Glenn Jonathan Demme watch on Hulu watch on Hulu Jodie Foster and Anthony Hopkins won Oscars for their now-iconic performances in Jonathan Demme’s seminal horror film The Silence of the Lambs.
 Adapted from Thomas Harris’ eponymous 1988 novel, the film follows Clarice Starling, an FBI trainee seeking the guidance of infamous cannibalistic serial killer Hannibal Lecter to catch Buffalo Bill, a deranged killer targeting young women.
The Silence of the Lambs is among the all-time great horror films; intelligent, confident, and above all scary, the film excels as a psychological thriller and an outright horror picture. Hopkins’ portrayal of Hannibal Lecter remains among the finest horror performances to ever grace the silver screen, cementing The Silence of the Lambs as a masterpiece of the revered genre.
Read less The Nun (2018) 96m Horror, Mystery, Thriller Taissa Farmiga, Demián Bichir, Bonnie Aarons Corin Hardy watch on Hulu watch on Hulu The Conjuring franchise expanded with the 2018 period horror movie The Nun , starring Taissa Farmiga and Oscar-nominee Demián Bichir. Set in 1952, the plot centers on a troubled priest and a young novitiate who travel to a Romanian convent to investigate the death of a young nun. As they uncover a dangerous secret in the convent, the pair must confront the vengeful demon Valak, who assumes the form of a terrifying nun. With a Gothic atmosphere and a pair of excellent lead performances, The Nun is a worthy period horror piece and a successful expansion of the wildly popular Conjuring universe.
Read less Annabelle (2014) 99m Horror Annabelle Wallis, Ward Horton, Tony Amendola John R. Leonetti watch on Hulu watch on Hulu Yet another spin-off of the Conjuring universe, Annabelle centers on the titular possessed doll as she haunts a young couple expecting their first child. Although critics were unkind to this spin-off, fans embraced its unique blend of horror and cheap thrills. Strong performances and an undeniably creepy villain in the form of its now-iconic titular doll make Annabelle a terrifying, if formulaic, nightmare.
Read less Personal Shopper (2016) 106m Drama, Mystery, Thriller Kristen Stewart, Lars Eidinger, Sigrid Bouaziz Olivier Assayas watch on Hulu watch on Hulu Academy Award nominee Kristen Stewart stars in Olivier Assayas’ 2016 supernatural psychological thriller Personal Shopper.
 The plot follows Maureen, a personal shopper and medium attempting to communicate with her recently-deceased twin brother. Like most of Assayas’ best films, Personal Shopper is quiet, subtle, and frustrating. However, several tonal shifts that keep the plot moving and a magnetic lead performance from Stewart make it an entrancing and thought-provoking exploration of life and loss worthy of the audience’s time.
Read less Titane (2021) 108m Drama, Thriller, Horror Agathe Rousselle, Vincent Lindon, Garance Marillier Julia Ducournau watch on Hulu watch on Hulu Julia Ducournau’s Palm d’Or-winning body horror film Titane stars Agathe Rousselle and Vincent Lindon. The plot centers on a serial killer with a titanium plate in her head who develops a complicated relationship with a man after posing as his long-lost son to avoid capture. Blending elements of psychological thriller and body horror, Titane is among the most original and boldest films of the new millennium, an unforgettable experience for fans of elevated horror.
Read less Orphan (2009) 122m Horror, Thriller, Mystery Vera Farmiga, Peter Sarsgaard, Isabelle Fuhrman Jaume Collet-Serra watch on Hulu watch on Hulu Oscar nominee Vera Farmiga stars opposite Peter Sarsgaard and a scene-stealing Isabelle Fuhrman in Jaume Collet-Serra’s 2009 horror film Orphan.
 The plot centers on a grieving couple who adopt Esther, a nine-year-old girl with a mysterious past. Strange things begin happening around the couple, leading them to suspect something might be wrong with Esther. Featuring a star-making performance from Fuhrman and one of the most memorable and unexpected twists in modern horror, Orphan is a unique experience that audiences won’t soon forget.
Read less The Cabin in the Woods (2012) 95m Horror, Fantasy Kristen Connolly, Fran Kranz, Jesse Williams Drew Goddard watch on Hulu watch on Hulu Drew Goddard’s horror comedy The Cabin in the Woods stars an ensemble, including Thor: Love and Thunder ‘s Chris Hemsworth, Kristen Connolly, Richard Jenkins, and Bradley Whitford. The plot follows a group of college students terrorized by several supernatural creatures controlled by a group of technicians with mysterious goals. Expertly balancing humor with genuine chills and bringing the best out of its impressive cast, The Cabin in the Woods is as hilarious as it is thrilling.
Read less The Omen (1976) 111m Horror, Thriller Gregory Peck, Lee Remick, David Warner Richard Donner watch on Hulu watch on Hulu Richard Donner’s classic The Omen is an institution in the horror genre. Cinematic icons Gregory Peck and Lee Remick star in the story about a couple whose child becomes the prime suspect in a series of violent deaths, leading them to believe he might be the Antichrist. A gorefest that makes the most out of its over-the-top premise, The Omen is an exercise in dread powered by a deliciously creepy performance from Harvey Stephens. The film launched a franchise, although the subsequent efforts have failed to match the original’s influence.
Read less The Menu (2022) 107m Horror, Thriller, Comedy Ralph Fiennes, Anya Taylor-Joy, Nicholas Hoult Mark Mylod watch on Hulu watch on Hulu Anya Taylor-Joy and Ralph Fiennes received Golden Globe nominations for their performances in Mark Mylod’s dark comedy The Menu , also starring Nicholas Hoult. The film follows a group of guests attending the prestigious Hawthorne restaurant owned by renowned chef Julian Slowik and located on a secluded island.
However, they soon discover something sinister is afoot when the chef’s real plans are revealed. Blending social satire with wicked humor and classic thrills, The Menu is a classic eat-the-rich story with genuine teeth.
Read less Crimes of the Future (2022) 107m Horror, Science Fiction Viggo Mortensen, Léa Seydoux, Scott Speedman David Cronenberg watch on Hulu watch on Hulu Body horror maestro reunites with Viggo Mortensen for his 2020 horror sci-fi Crimes of the Future , co-starring Léa Seydoux and Kristen Stewart. Set in a dystopian future where human evolution has made most humans immune to pain and disease, the film follows a performance artist who performs surgery on himself before live audiences. Although far from Cronenberg’s best picture, Crimes of the Future remains a must-watch for fans of the director’s singular mix of body horror and thought-provoking ideas.
Read less Hellraiser (2022) 121m Horror, Mystery Odessa A'zion, Jamie Clayton, Adam Faison David Bruckner watch on Hulu watch on Hulu A reboot of the venerable Hellraiser franchise , Hellraiser follows a young woman recovering from addiction. When she receives a mysterious box capable of summoning humanoid beings with sadistic impulses, she must confront the dangerous demonic forces responsible for her brother’s disappearance.
Featuring a spectacular performance from Jamie Clayton as the iconic villain Pinhead, Hellraiser is a welcome return to form for a franchise that spent far too long neck-deep in mediocrity.
Read less Hereditary (2018) 128m Horror, Mystery, Thriller Toni Collette, Alex Wolff, Milly Shapiro Ari Aster watch on Hulu watch on Hulu Ari Aster’s 2018 horror masterpiece Hereditary stars Toni Collette, Gabriel Byrne, and Alex Wolff. The plot centers on a family grieving after a tragic accident that begins experiencing unexplained and dangerous supernatural events that lead them to uncover a harrowing truth. Elevated by a career-best performance from Collette, Hereditary is a powerful exploration of grief and guilt wrapped around a shocking and terrifying horror story that will creep under the audience’s skin.
Read less Possessor: Uncut (2020) 104m Horror, Thriller, Science Fiction Andrea Riseborough, Christopher Abbott, Jennifer Jason Leigh Brandon Cronenberg watch on Hulu watch on Hulu Leave it to Brandon Cronenberg, son of horror master David Cronenberg, to create a disturbing and insightful piece of horror for the new generation.
Possessor stars recent Oscar nominee Andrea Riseborough as an assassin who takes over other people’s bodies to carry on her assignments. However, things get complicated when she struggles to possess her most recent mark, a young man played by Christopher Abbott. Full of the body horror and disturbing elements that have become the Cronenbergs’ bread-and-butter, Possessor will more than satisfy fans of provocative horror.
Read less Run (2020) 90m Thriller, Horror, Drama Sarah Paulson, Kiera Allen, Pat Healy Aneesh Chaganty watch on Hulu watch on Hulu Emmy nominee Sarah Paulson stars in the 2020 psychological thriller Run.
 The film revolves around Chloe, a young woman who has spent her life controlled by her overbearing mother. However, as Chloe enters adolescence, she begins questioning her life and her mother’s role in it. Powered by Paulson’s committed performance, and with a smart and pleasantly surprising screenplay, Run is an effective and suspenseful thriller that will keep audiences on the edge.
Read less Fresh (2022) 114m Horror, Thriller, Comedy Daisy Edgar-Jones, Sebastian Stan, Jojo T. Gibbs Mimi Cave watch on Hulu watch on Hulu Sebastian Stan and Daisy Edgar-Jones star in the horror thriller Fresh.
 The film follows Noa, a young woman frustrated with dating apps, who begins a relationship with the charming Steve. When the two go for a weekend getaway, Noa discovers the many sinister secrets Steve has been hiding. Benefitting from Edgar-Jones and Stan’s performances and with clever insights into the horrors of modern dating, Fresh is a chilling horror story with poignant social critique.
Read less Lamb (2021) 106m Drama, Fantasy, Horror Noomi Rapace, Hilmir Snær Guðnason, Björn Hlynur Haraldsson Valdimar Jóhannsson watch on Hulu watch on Hulu The excellent Noomi Rapace stars in Valdimar Jóhannsson’s 2021 folk horror film Lamb from A24.
 The plot centers on a couple living on a secluded Icelandic farm whose sheep births a human/sheep hybrid. Becoming parents to the creature, the couple begins to adjust to their new lives, oblivious that a mysterious entity is watching their moves with mysterious purposes.
Lamb is unnerving yet engrossing, benefitting from an excellent performance by Rapace. Fans of unique premises and unconventional horror will get the best out of this odd and chilling film.
Read less Barbarian (2022) 103m Horror, Thriller Georgina Campbell, Bill Skarsgård, Justin Long Zach Cregger watch on Hulu watch on Hulu Utterly bonkers and thrilling, Barbarian is a true horror event. The film stars Georgina Campbell, Bill Skarsgård, and Justin Long and follows a woman whose Airbnb rental is double booked. Deciding to spend the night in the house despite the unexpected presence, she soon discovers the rental has dangerous secrets lurking beneath. A wild ride from beginning to end, Barbarian goes all in on its brand of deranged scares, providing an admittedly unconventional yet ultimately sharp and satisfying experience that’s as scary as it’s entertaining.
Read less X (2022) new 106m Horror, Mystery, Thriller Mia Goth, Jenna Ortega, Brittany Snow Ti West watch on Hulu watch on Hulu Ti West presented his daring, gritty take on the slasher genre with X.
 The film stars Mia Goth, Jenna Ortega, Brittany Snow, and Martin Henderson and tells the story of a group of pornographers who decide to shoot their latest film on a secluded Texas farm owned by an elderly couple. Their plans take an unexpected turn when an unexpected enemy begins targeting them one by one. Elevated by a committed and versatile dual performance from Goth, X works as a homage to 1970s slasher movies and a worthy entry to the revered genre.
Read less The Witch (2015) 92m Horror, Mystery, Drama, Fantasy Anya Taylor-Joy, Ralph Ineson, Kate Dickie Robert Eggers watch on Hulu watch on Hulu Starring Anya Taylor-Joy in the role that made her a star, The Witch centers on a young girl whose brother becomes lost under her watch. Accused by her other siblings of witchcraft, the girl must endure her family’s distrust and accusations as a dark entity lurks in the forest beyond their solitary cottage.
The Witch finds Robert Eggers ( The Northman ) in fine form, aided by Taylor-Joy’s commanding performance. Mixing supernatural thrills with an exploration of faith, religion, innocence, and womanhood, The Witch is a superior and thought-provoking entry into the elevated horror subgenre.
Read less Pooka! (2018) new r 90m Horror, Thriller, TV Movie Nyasha Hatendi, Latarsha Rose, Jon Daly Nacho Vigalondo watch on Hulu watch on Hulu Hulu’s Into the Dark series has served as a powerful forum for established and up-and-coming genre directors to showcase new and exciting horror films, and while we’ve already covered Treehouse (directed by James Roday), we’d also like to shine some morbid light on director Nacho Vigalondo’s contribution to the anthology. It’s a film called Pooka! that stars Nyasha Hatendi as a man named Wilson who takes an acting job as a costumed creature named Pooka, a beast based on a popular new holiday toy that’s selling like crazy. But as the toy’s popularity reaches new heights, Wilson begins experiencing wild hallucinations with murderous conclusions. A fitting genre feast for the Christmas season, Vigalondo clearly had a ton of fun with his off-the-wall concept, and so will you.
Read less Spree (2020) new r 93m Thriller, Horror, Comedy Joe Keery, Sasheer Zamata, David Arquette Eugene Kotlyarenko watch on Hulu watch on Hulu Read less Hatching (2022) r 91m Fantasy, Horror Siiri Solalinna, Sophia Heikkilä, Jani Volanen Hanna Bergholm watch on Hulu watch on Hulu Read less You Are Not My Mother (2022) r 93m Horror, Thriller Hazel Doupe, Paul Reid, Ingrid Craigie Kate Dolan watch on Hulu watch on Hulu Read less Little Monsters (2019) r 94m Horror, Comedy Lupita Nyong'o, Alexander England, Josh Gad Abe Forsythe watch on Hulu watch on Hulu Read less The Field Guide to Evil (2018) r 117m Horror Marlene Hauser, Luzia Oppermann, Karin Pauer Veronika Franz, Peter Strickland, Calvin Lee Reeder, Ashim Ahluwalia, Katrin Gebbe, Can Evrenol, Severin Fiala, Yannis Veslemes, Agnieszka Smoczyńska watch on Hulu watch on Hulu The Field Guide to Evil is an international anthology film that brings together eight unique genre tales with folkloric bents. Of particular note are some of the recognizable writers/directors, including Peter Strickland ( Berberian Sound Studio and In Fabric ), Veronika Franz, and Severin Fiala ( Goodnight Mommy and The Lodge ), with each segmented novella horror delivering an homage to a significant mythological terror. While not every short hits as hard as the last, the mixed bag ends up in “glass half-full” terrain, with plenty to write home about in terms of vision and execution.
Read less Held (2020) r 94m Horror, Mystery, Thriller Jill Awbrey, Bart Johnson, Travis Cluff Travis Cluff, Chris Lofing watch on Hulu watch on Hulu Read less Agnes (2021) r 93m Drama, Horror Molly C. Quinn, Sean Gunn, Hayley McFarland Mickey Reece watch on Hulu watch on Hulu Read less Gaia (2021) r 97m Horror, Fantasy, Drama Monique Rockman, Carel Nel, Alex van Dyk Jaco Bouwer watch on Hulu watch on Hulu Read less Willy's Wonderland (2021) r 88m Action, Horror, Comedy Nicolas Cage, Emily Tosta, Beth Grant Kevin Lewis watch on Hulu watch on Hulu Read less Wounds (2019) r 94m Horror, Mystery, Thriller Armie Hammer, Dakota Johnson, Zazie Beetz Babak Anvari watch on Hulu watch on Hulu Read less Hunter Hunter (2021) r 93m Horror, Thriller, Mystery Camille Sullivan, Summer H. Howell, Devon Sawa Shawn Linden watch on Hulu watch on Hulu Read less We Need to Do Something (2021) r 97m Horror, Mystery Sierra McCormick, Vinessa Shaw, Pat Healy Sean King O'Grady watch on Hulu watch on Hulu Read less 47 Meters Down (2017) pg-13 89m Horror, Drama, Thriller, Adventure Mandy Moore, Claire Holt, Matthew Modine Johannes Roberts watch on Hulu watch on Hulu Read less The Night (2021) r 105m Horror, Mystery Shahab Hosseini, Niousha Noor, George Maguire Kourosh Ahari watch on Hulu watch on Hulu Read less Censor (2021) r 84m Horror, Mystery Niamh Algar, Michael Smiley, Nicholas Burns Prano Bailey-Bond watch on Hulu watch on Hulu Read less Amulet (2020) r 99m Horror Carla Juri, Alec Secăreanu, Imelda Staunton Romola Garai watch on Hulu watch on Hulu Read less Best horror movies on Netflix Best horror movies on Amazon Best mysteries on Netflix Best shows on Hulu right now The Owners (2020) 92m Thriller, Horror Maisie Williams, Sylvester McCoy, Rita Tushingham Julius Berg watch on Hulu watch on Hulu Read less Editors' Recommendations The best new shows to stream on Netflix, Hulu, Max (HBO), and more The 50 best shows on Netflix in November 2023 The best movies and shows on Shudder right now (November 2023) The best Black movies on Netflix right now The 10 most popular movies on Netflix right now Best Products Streaming Guides Streaming Services Movie images and data from: Entertainment The best feel-good movies on Netflix right now include plenty of romantic comedies to watch while snuggling up with your partner, pet, or favorite blanket.
There's also a concert tour documentary courtesy of Taylor Swift, which is particularly topical due to the singing sensation's dominance of the pop culture zeitgeist. We've sorted through the best feel-good movies on Netflix and feel good about the list below.
Entertainment It's not hard to find a great comedy movie on Netflix. Unlike some other genres like sci-fi and fantasy, Netflix keeps its lineup of comedies well-stocked with some recent box-office hits, like Jennifer Lawrence's No Hard Feelings, as well as classic titles on loan from other studios and a lot of original films. This month's new additions include the first theatrical adaptation of The Addams Family, The Big Lebowski, and Scott Pilgrim vs. the World. It's pretty hard to go wrong with those flicks.
Comedies come and go, which is why it's important to stay glued to what's new on Netflix. If you're looking for laughs, these are the best comedies on Netflix right now.
Entertainment You're going to see a lot of Christmas movies on Hulu through the end of the year. 'Tis the season for the Huludays, after all. While we'll go over your Christmas options at a later date, this month's selections of the best movies on Hulu feature a new original film, Quiz Lady, as well as A Haunting in Venice, which recently finished its theatrical run. The other prominent new additions are Jumanji: Welcome to the Jungle and the comedy biopic Driven.
Need help keeping up with everything new on Hulu? Every month, we go over the greatest films that Hulu has to offer while keeping track of what's coming and going. That's why our update of the best movies on Hulu is always current. We're here to help you plan your next movie night.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
