Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Netflix Original Movies Best Comedies on Netflix Best Netflix Original Series Best Anime on Netflix Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Fantasy Movies on Netflix Home Entertainment Guides The best hidden gems on Netflix right now By Blair Marnell and Christine Persaud Close Whenever Netflix has a big new original series, it’s often prominently displayed on the home page of nearly every user. But Netflix’s algorithm doesn’t always get everything right, and certain shows just fall through the cracks without getting much attention at all. These hidden gem series could be your next favorite binge, if only you could find them.
The good news is that we’ve already combed through the list of everything new on Netflix.
 Armed with that knowledge, we’ve updated our list of the best hidden gems on Netflix. Keep on reading for the shows you probably missed the first time they were on TV or streaming.
Want to watch something with more buzz? Check out the best movies on Netflix and the best shows and original series on Netflix right now.
 For a much-needed laugh, see the best stand-up comedy on Netflix right now.
Save on everything from laptops and tablets, to coffee makers and air purifiers, and a whole host of Apple tech like iPad, Apple Watch and even the latest M3 MacBooks, as well as smart home essentials like the Amazon Echo and smart bulbs.
Guillermo del Toro's Cabinet of Curiosities (2022) new tv-ma 1 Season Drama, Mystery Guillermo del Toro Guillermo del Toro watch on Netflix watch on Netflix If you’re looking for some scary short stories this Halloween, then director Guillermo del Toro has a treat for you.
Guillermo del Toro’s Cabinet of Curiosities is a horror anthology series that features eight episodes of standalone stories, including one written by del Toro himself.
Although del Toro didn’t direct any of the episodes himself, he recruited horror directors Jennifer Kent, Ana Lily Amirpour, Panos Cosmatos, Catherine Hardwicke, Guillermo Navarro, David Prior, Vincenzo Natali, and Keith Thomas to each bring to life their own visions of terror.
Read less iZombie (2015) new tv-14 5 Seasons Drama, Crime, Sci-Fi & Fantasy Rose McIver, David Anders, Robert Buckley Rob Thomas, Diane Ruggiero watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Although iZombie is based on a comic, the TV series made so many changes that it became its own thing. Rose McIver stars as Olivia “Liv” Moore, a young woman who died and became a zombie under murky circumstances. However, Liv can hold on to most of her humanity as long as she maintains a steady diet of human brains. To do so, Liv throws away her career plans and gets a job in the coroner’s office.
Liv also receives flashes from eating the brains that allow her to solve open murder cases alongside Seattle PD Detective Clive Babineaux (Malcolm Goodwin). Meanwhile, Liv’s heartbroken ex-fiancé Major Lillywhite (Robert Buckley) is desperate to learn why he lost her. And as Major looks into that mystery, he may end up getting himself killed.
Read less Everything Now (2023) new tv-ma 1 Season Comedy, Drama Sophie Wilde, Lauryn Ajufo, Harry Cadby Ripley Parker watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Talk to Me ‘s Sophie Wilde stars in Everything Now as Mia Polanco, a 16-year-old girl who has just been released from treatment for serious eating disorders. Mia not only feels like she’s under the microscope from her family and peers, but she also thinks that she missed far too much time from what should be the best years of her life.
In her eagerness to fix that, Mia recruits her friends Becca (Lauryn Ajufo), Will (Noah Thomas), and Cam (Harry Cadby), as well as acquaintances Alison (Niamh McCormack) and Carli (Jessie Mae Alonzo) ,to help her get through a bucket list of things that she missed. Mia wants to make up for lost time, even if she should probably slow down. But where’s the fun in that? Read less The Mick (2017) new tv-14 2 Seasons Comedy Kaitlin Olson, Sofia Black-D'Elia, Thomas Barbusca Dave Chernin, John Chernin watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Between seasons of It’s Always Sunny in Philadelphia , Kaitlin Olson found the time to headline her own Fox sitcom, The Mick.
 In the series, Olson plays Mackenzie “Mickey” Molng, a woman who reenters the life of her older sister, Pamela “Poodle” Pemberton (Tricia O’Kelley), just to ask her for money. But when Poodle and her rich husband, Christopher Pemberton (Laird Macintosh), flee the country to escape tax evasion charges, Mickey finds herself stuck with their children.
On the plus side, Mickey gets to live in the family’s plush estate. Conversely, she’s less than thrilled to be responsible for Sabrina (Sofia Black-D’Elia), Chip (Thomas Barbusca), and Bean (Jack Stanton). And if she’s gonna have to take care of these kids, then Mickey is going to raise them her way.
Read less Top Boy (2019) tv-ma 3 Seasons Crime, Drama Kane Robinson, Ashley Walters, Micheal Ward Ronan Bennett watch on Netflix watch on Netflix The underrated British crime drama Top Boy has come to an end, and Netflix is the streaming home for both the original show and the three-season run of the revival series. But both incarnations of the show revolve around Dushane (Ashley Walters) and Sully (Kane Robinson), a pair of drug dealers in London whose friendship is sorely tested by their desires to rise in the criminal underworld.
While Dushane and Sully are initially on the same page, their goals diverge and they ultimately come into conflict with each other. Sometimes they’re even at each other’s throats, but they keep reluctantly joining forces. Yet in the end, there can only be one “Top Boy.’ Read less Crazy Ex-Girlfriend (2015) tv-14 4 Seasons Comedy, Drama Rachel Bloom, Donna Lynne Champlin, Vincent Rodriguez III Aline Brosh McKenna, Rachel Bloom watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Don’t be too put off by the title of Crazy Ex-Girlfriend.
 While the name of the show is not an inaccurate description of Rebecca Bunch (Rachel Bloom), she’s not the type to go full Fatal Attraction.
 Instead, Rebecca is more of an unfulfilled dreamer who is prone to musical fantasies and occasional hallucinations. This show is a musical comedy, after all.
After reuniting with her ex-boyfriend, Josh Chan (Vincent Rodriguez III), Rebecca has an existential breakdown, follows Josh cross-country, and attempts to reinvent her life on the West Coast. But Rebecca is not done with Josh, as she romantically pursues Josh’s best friend, Greg (Santino Fontana), as a way to stay close to him. Naturally, this does not sit well with Josh’s actual girlfriend, Valencia Perez (Gabrielle Ruiz).
Read less Inventing Anna (2022) tv-ma 1 Season Drama Anna Chlumsky, Julia Garner, Arian Moayed Shonda Rhimes watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Inventing Anna is loosely based on the true story of Anna “Delvey” Sorokin (Julia Garner), a Russian con artist who was successfully able to worm her way into New York’s high society by convincing them that she was a rich German heiress. Because her newfound friends and contacts believed that Anna was rich, they were willing to give her access to their money as well.
The miniseries also focuses on Vivian Kent (Anna Chlumsky), a reporter who is obsessed with chasing down Anna’s story as she awaits trial. While some of Anna’s victims are willing to talk, Vivian finds it difficult to get the full story.
Read less Eat the Rich: The GameStop Saga (2022) tv-ma 1 Season Documentary Taylor Lorenz, Andrew Left, Abbe Minor watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Thanks to the film Dumb Money , the 2021 GameStop short squeeze is once again a popular topic. Netflix’s documentary, Eat the Rich: The GameStop Saga , is a three-part look back at the tumultuous turn of events when amateur investors outmaneuvered the professional stock traders by driving up GameStop’s stock so high that the short sellers couldn’t buy back the stock without losing millions.
This documentary doesn’t quite cover all of the bases, but it’s still an intriguing look back at a Wall Street revolt that didn’t quite end the way most of the investors wanted it to.
Read less Echoes (2022) tv-ma 1 Season Drama, Mystery Michelle Monaghan, Matt Bomer, Daniel Sunjata Vanessa Gazy watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Read less The Midnight Club (2022) tv-ma 1 Season Drama, Mystery Iman Benson, Igby Rigney, Ruth Codd Mike Flanagan, Leah Fong watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Read less The Watcher (2022) tv-ma 1 Season Drama, Mystery Bobby Cannavale, Naomi Watts, Jennifer Coolidge Ryan Murphy, Ian Brennan watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Reviews have been mixed for The Watcher , but it’s worth a watch if you’re into creepy, mystery thrillers, and/or you’re a fan of Ryan Murphy and his work. It’s based on a true story, although many liberties are taken with the depiction of actual events. Nora and Dean Brannock (Naomi Watts and Bobby Cannavale) put everything on the line to afford their dream home in Westfield, New Jersey. But the gorgeous, sprawling mansion might not be all it’s cracked up to be.
The couple and their kids notice strange behavior from the intrusive neighbors and begin receiving ominous letters from someone who calls themselves The Watcher. Should the Brannocks sell, lose money, and move back to the city or stand their ground and stay, despite the cost of their sanity and safety? With lots of twists and turns, The Watcher will keep you guessing right through to the end.
Read less Unsolved Mysteries (2020) tv-ma 3 Seasons Documentary, Drama, Mystery Various watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Unsolved Mysteries will satisfy your desire for both true crime and docuseries about the unknown and paranormal activity. Each episode is a compartmentalized story, which means you can scan the summary and pick and choose what you’re in the mood to watch. Whether it’s the story of a successful businessman who mysteriously vanishes, UFO sightings, or a cold case murder rife with theories, rest assured every episode will leave you with tons of questions, opinions, and a desire to get to the bottom of what truly happened.
Netflix’s version is a revival of the original series that first aired in the late 1980s, and it has been resurrected multiple times through the decades. Now in its third season, the new Unsolved Mysteries presents an eclectic mix of captivating stories to keep you wanting more.
Read less First Kill (2022) tv-ma 1 Season Drama, Mystery Sarah Catherine Hook, Imani Lewis, Elizabeth Mitchell V.E. Schwab watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Read less Love & Anarchy (2020) tv-ma 2 Seasons Comedy, Drama Ida Engvoll, Bjorn Mosten, Johannes Bah Kuhnke, Bjorn Kjellman Lisa Langseth watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Read less One Day at a Time (2017) tv-pg 4 Seasons Comedy Justina Machado, Rita Moreno, Isabella Gomez Whitney Blake, Allan Manings watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Read less El Marginal (2016) tv-ma 5 Seasons Crime, Drama Martina Gusman, Claudio Rissi, Nicolás Furtado Sebastián Ortega, Adrián Caetano watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Read less Secret City (2016) tv-14 2 Seasons Drama, War & Politics Anna Torv, Andrew McFarlane, Robert Rabiah Based on The Marmalade Files, The Mandarin Code by Chris Uhlmann and Steve Lewis watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Read less Kim's Convenience (2016) tv-14 5 Seasons Comedy Paul Sun-Hyung Lee, Jean Yoon, Andrea Bang Ins Choi, Kevin White watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Read less Derry Girls (2018) tv-ma 3 Seasons Comedy Saoirse-Monica Jackson, Louisa Harland, Nicola Coughlan Lisa McGee watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Read less On My Block (2018) tv-14 4 Seasons Comedy Jason Genao, Brett Gray, Jessica Marie Garcia Lauren Iungerich, Eddie Gonzalez, Jeremy Haft watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Read less Is It Cake? (2022) tv-pg 1 Season Reality Mikey Day watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Read less The End of the F***ing World (2017) tv-ma 2 Seasons Comedy, Drama, Crime Alex Lawther, Jessica Barden, Naomi Ackie Jonathan Entwistle watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Read less Murderville (2022) new tv-ma 1 Season Comedy, Crime Will Arnett, Haneefah Wood, Lilan Bowden Krister Johnson watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Read less Raising Dion (2019) tv-pg 2 Seasons Drama, Sci-Fi & Fantasy Sammi Haney Carol Barbee watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Read less Catching Killers (2021) tv-ma 2 Seasons Documentary, Crime Dana Gouge, Tim Relph, Clark Schwartzkopf Simon Dekker watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Read less After Life (2019) tv-ma 3 Seasons Comedy, Drama Ricky Gervais, Tom Basden, Kerry Godliman Ricky Gervais watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Read less The Last Kingdom (2015) tv-ma 5 Seasons Action & Adventure, Drama, War & Politics Alexander Dreymon, Emily Cox, Ian Hart Stephen Butchard watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Read less Dark (2017) tv-ma 3 Seasons Sci-Fi & Fantasy, Drama, Mystery, Crime Louis Hofmann, Karoline Eichhorn Baran bo Odar, Jantje Friese watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Read less In From the Cold (2022) new tv-ma 1 Season Drama, Sci-Fi & Fantasy, Action & Adventure Margarita Levieva, Cillian O'Sullivan, Lydia Fleming Adam Glass watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Read less Gentefied (2020) tv-ma 2 Seasons Comedy, Drama Joseph Julian Soria, Carlos Santos, Joaquín Cosío Marvin Lemus, Linda Yvette Chavez watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Read less Maid (2021) tv-ma 1 Season Drama Margaret Qualley, Nick Robinson, Anika Noni Rose Molly Smith Metzler watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Read less Tiger King: Murder, Mayhem and Madness (2020) tv-ma 2 Seasons Documentary, Crime Carole Baskin, Bhagavan Antle, Howard Baskin watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Read less Inside Job (2021) tv-ma 1 Season Comedy, Animation Lizzy Caplan, Christian Slater, Clark Duke Shion Takeuchi watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Read less Bodyguard (2018) tv-ma 1 Season War & Politics, Crime, Drama Richard Madden, Keeley Hawes, Sophie Rundle Jed Mercurio watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Read less Dirty Money (2018) tv-14 2 Seasons Crime, Documentary watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Read less Queen of the South (2016) tv-ma 5 Seasons Crime, Drama Alice Braga, Hemky Madera Joshua John Miller, M.A. Fortin watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Read less Imposters (2017) tv-14 2 Seasons Drama, Comedy, Mystery, Crime Inbar Lavi, Marianne Rendón, Parker Young Adam Brooks, Paul Adelstein watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Read less Travelers (2016) tv-ma 3 Seasons Drama, Sci-Fi & Fantasy Eric McCormack, MacKenzie Porter, Nesta Cooper Brad Wright watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Read less What/If (2019) tv-ma 1 Season Drama Renée Zellweger, Jane Levy, Blake Jenner Mike Kelley watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Read less Seven Seconds (2018) tv-ma 1 Season Crime, Drama Clare-Hope Ashitey, Michael Mosley, Beau Knapp Veena Sud watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Read less White Gold (2017) tv-ma 2 Seasons Comedy Joe Thomas, Linzey Cocker, Ed Westwick Damon Beesley watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Read less Related topics: Netflix | Hulu | Amazon Prime | More streaming services Editors' Recommendations The best new shows to stream on Netflix, Hulu, Max (HBO), and more The 50 best shows on Netflix in November 2023 The best movies and shows on Shudder right now (November 2023) The best Black movies on Netflix right now The 10 most popular movies on Netflix right now Audio / Video Best Products Netflix Streaming Guides Streaming Services Movie images and data from: Entertainment The best feel-good movies on Netflix right now include plenty of romantic comedies to watch while snuggling up with your partner, pet, or favorite blanket.
There's also a concert tour documentary courtesy of Taylor Swift, which is particularly topical due to the singing sensation's dominance of the pop culture zeitgeist. We've sorted through the best feel-good movies on Netflix and feel good about the list below.
Entertainment It's not hard to find a great comedy movie on Netflix. Unlike some other genres like sci-fi and fantasy, Netflix keeps its lineup of comedies well-stocked with some recent box-office hits, like Jennifer Lawrence's No Hard Feelings, as well as classic titles on loan from other studios and a lot of original films. This month's new additions include the first theatrical adaptation of The Addams Family, The Big Lebowski, and Scott Pilgrim vs. the World. It's pretty hard to go wrong with those flicks.
Comedies come and go, which is why it's important to stay glued to what's new on Netflix. If you're looking for laughs, these are the best comedies on Netflix right now.
Entertainment You're going to see a lot of Christmas movies on Hulu through the end of the year. 'Tis the season for the Huludays, after all. While we'll go over your Christmas options at a later date, this month's selections of the best movies on Hulu feature a new original film, Quiz Lady, as well as A Haunting in Venice, which recently finished its theatrical run. The other prominent new additions are Jumanji: Welcome to the Jungle and the comedy biopic Driven.
Need help keeping up with everything new on Hulu? Every month, we go over the greatest films that Hulu has to offer while keeping track of what's coming and going. That's why our update of the best movies on Hulu is always current. We're here to help you plan your next movie night.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
