Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Netflix Original Movies Best Comedies on Netflix Best Netflix Original Series Best Anime on Netflix Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Fantasy Movies on Netflix Home Entertainment Guides The 14 best sitcoms on Netflix right now (November 2023) By Blair Marnell Close When Netflix popularized streaming, it had a sitcom lineup that was truly second to none. In the present, a lot of the classic shows from other networks went to other streaming services, so Netflix rebuilt its library with dozens of original sitcoms and occasional giants in the field like Seinfeld.
For this month’s round-up of the best sitcoms on Netflix right now, we’ve added a new arrival, Lopez vs. Lopez , as well as the returning series, The Upshaws , the classic kids sitcom, iCarly , and the Full House revival series, Fuller House.
 And there’s always more on the way because Netflix is constantly adding new shows.
 So keep checking back as we update this list every month.
We’ve also rounded up all the best movies on Netflix , the best shows on Hulu , the best shows on Amazon Prime , and the best shows on Disney+ because we take our streaming seriously. Watching while traveling abroad? Use a Netflix VPN to access your country’s catalog from anywhere in the world.
The 50 best movies on Netflix right now (November 2023) The best Hulu original series right now The 50 best anime on Hulu right now Lopez vs. Lopez (2022-Present) Universal Television Because Lopez vs. Lopez is an NBC series, Peacock seems like it would be the more natural streaming home for it than Netflix. Regardless, the first season of Lopez vs. Lopez is now on Netflix, and season 2 will presumably begin filming after the actor’s strike ends. For now, viewers can get reacquainted with sitcom veteran George Lopez as he co-stars in this new series with his real-life daughter, Mayan Lopez.
The setup for the show is that George and Mayan have been estranged for years until George went bankrupt and hit rock bottom. Now, George is living with Mayan and her boyfriend, Quinten Van Bryan (Matt Shively), as well as their son, Chance Lopez-Van Bryan (Brice Gonzalez). George and Mayan are also working on repairing their relationship, but not always successfully.
Watch Lopez vs. Lopez on Netflix.
The Upshaws (2021-Present) Netflix The Upshaws may be the most conventional Netflix original sitcom that is still an ongoing show. Mike Epps and Kim Fields co-headline the series as Bennie and Regina Upshaw, respectively. Bennie owns his own business, Bennie’s Garage, but he sometimes struggles to be there for his kids with Regina, including Aaliyah (Khali Spraggins), Maya (Journey Christine), and Bernard Jr. (Jermelle Simon), as well as Kelvin Upshaw (Diamond Lyons), Bernie’s son with another woman.
Wanda Sykes co-created the series which also co-stars as Lucretia Turner, Bennie’s sister-in-law, who really doesn’t like him very much. But recurring conflict like that is at the heart of every successful sitcom.
Watch The Upshaws on Netflix.
Fuller House (2016-2020) Netflix Fuller House was an updated revival of the classic ABC sitcom, Full House , which suggests that an eventual sequel series should be called Fullest House.
 Unlike some revivals, Fuller House got most of the original cast back in either starring or supporting roles.
Candace Cameron Bure headlines the show as D.J. Tanner-Fuller, a widowed mother who desperately needs help raising her three sons. That’s why D.J.’s sister, Stephanie Tanner (Jodie Sweetin), and her best friend, Kimmy Gibbler (Andrea Barber), drop everything in their lives in order to move in with D.J.’s family in the classic Tanner home. The late comedy legend, Bob Saget, recurred on the series, alongside his former Full House co-stars, including John Stamos, Dave Coulier, and Lori Loughlin.
Watch Fuller House on Netflix.
iCarly (2007-2012) Nickelodeon It seems like such a long time since iCarly debuted on Nickelodeon, especially since the revival series was only recently canceled by Paramount+.
 Regardless, this was a sitcom that was created for younger audiences, and it still plays well for fans who may not be ready for some of the more adult-oriented shows.
Miranda Cosgrove headlines the series as Carly Shay, a teenage girl who launches her own web show, iCarly , which she co-hosts with her best friend, Sam Puckett (Jennette McCurdy), and produces with Freddie Benson (Nathan Kress). At Freddie’s suggestion, the girls continued making the show because it was fun. But they didn’t count on the ways that their new online popularity would complicate their lives.
Watch iCarly on Netflix.
Seinfeld (1989-1998) NBC Seinfeld , the series described as “a show about nothing,” was the defining comedy of the 1990s. And it got a lot of mileage out of “nothing” as Jerry Seinfeld (playing a version of himself) spent time hanging out with his friends, George Costanza (Jason Alexander), Elaine Benes (Julia Louis-Dreyfus), and Cosmo Kramer (Michael Richards).
The show was chock-full of outlandish situations, incredibly bizarre one-off characters, and some of the most consistently witty and hilarious quips on TV. It’s been 25 years since this show went off the air, and it remains an all-time classic.
Watch Seinfeld on Netflix.
Community (2009-2015) NBC / Sony Pictures TV Years before co-creating Rick & Morty , Dan Harmon’s Community was perhaps the most inventive comedy writer on TV. This series about a study group at a small community college may not have been a ratings juggernaut, but it had a cast that most shows would love to have, including Joel McHale, Donald Glover, Alison Brie, Danny Pudi, Gillian Jacobs, and Chevy Chase. More importantly, it has a strong following that still wants Harmon to finish that Community TV movie he’s working on for Peacock.
The secret to this show’s success was the wild swings that it took, the hilarious parody episodes, and most of all, an abundance of heart when it counted, especially in the stop-motion animated Christmas episode. Future MCU directors Anthony and Joe Russo also earned their chance to helm Marvel’s movies thanks to their work on Community ‘s unforgettable paintball episodes. How many other shows can say that? Watch Community on Netflix.
The Good Place (2016-2020) Universal TV It’s not necessarily a wonderful afterlife for Eleanor Shellstrop (Kristen Bell) and Jason Mendoza (Manny Jacinto) in The Good Place.
 Despite being sent to their eternal paradise, Eleanor and Jason know that they don’t deserve it and that they were probably meant to end up in the Bad Place. That’s why their guide, Michael (Ted Danson), pairs Eleanor up with her soulmate, Chidi Anagonye (William Jackson Harper), and assigns Tahani Al-Jamil ( She-Hulk: Attorney at Law ‘ s Jameela Jamil) to Jason — to help them become better people.
But the Good Place isn’t necessarily what it seems, and the quartet will eventually have reasons to question their afterlife, even during hilarious circumstances.
Watch The Good Place on Netflix.
Arrested Development (2003-2006, 2013-2019) 20th Century Studios The Russo brothers were also among the primary directors on Arrested Development , Mitchell Hurwitz’s cult comedy series that briefly ran on Fox nearly two decades ago. Netflix revived the series for two additional seasons in 2013, which helped solidify the streamer’s original programming. The show follows Michael Bluth (Jason Bateman), the seemingly ordinary guy in a dysfunctional family. But he just can’t stay out of their orbit.
When Michael’s father, George Bluth (Jeffrey Tambor), is sent to prison, Michael is roped into helping run the family company while dealing with his acerbic mother, Lucille Bluth (Jessica Walter), as well as his eccentric siblings: Gob (Will Arnett), Lindsay (Portia de Rossi), and Buster (Tony Hale). This job just might drive Michael out of his mind, if his family doesn’t do it first.
Watch Arrested Development on Netflix.
Kim’s Convenience (2016-2021) CBC Television Before he was cast in the lead of Marvel’s Shang-Chi and the Legend of the Ten Rings , Simu Liu had a starring role on Kim’s Convenience as Jung Kim, the estranged son of Yong-mi Kim (Jean Yoon) and Sang-il Kim ( The Mandalorian ‘s Paul Sun-Hyung Lee). Most of the show focused on the Kims and their convenience store, as wll as their daughter, Janet Kim (Andrea Bang). But Jung carried his own storylines and subplots even when kept at a distance.
Although Janet and Yong-mi maintain ties with Jung, getting the father and son to patch up their differences is no easy task. There are definitely some dramatic and heartfelt moments in this comedy, and that’s what makes it a great show.
Watch Kim’s Convenience on Netflix.
Unbreakable Kimmy Schmidt (2015-2020) Netflix Netflix rescued Unbreakable Kimmy Schmidt from an inevitable cancellation by NBC by picking up the show before it ever premiered on network television. That turned out to be a great pickup because this is by far one of the most acclaimed sitcoms on Netflix. The show is about Kimmy Schmidt (Ellie Kemper), a woman who spent 15 years of her life trapped in a cult run by Reverend Richard Wayne Gary Wayne ( Confess, Fletch ‘s Jon Hamm).
But rather than let this define her life, Kimmy decides to completely reinvent herself by moving to New York City and moving in with an eccentric actor, Titus Andromedon (Tituss Burgess). She also befriends her landlord, Lillian Kaushtupper (Carol Kane), and finds a real job working for Jacqueline Voorhees (Jane Krakowski). There are four seasons of this series, but we don’t recommend a binge. This is a show that’s meant to be savored, so take your time.
Watch Unbreakable Kimmy Schmidt on Netflix.
The Game (2006-2008) CBS TV Only the first three seasons of The Game ‘s nine-season run are on Netflix, but it’s still a sitcom that’s worthy of your time. The show follows Melanie Barnett (Tia Mowry), a young medical school student who turns down a chance to study at a prestigious school to accompany her boyfriend, Derwin Davis (Pooch Hall), to San Diego after he is drafted to play pro football.
Once Melanie arrives in San Diego, she befriends Kelly Pitts (Brittany Daniel), another significant other from Derwin’s team, as well as Tasha Mack (Wendy Raquel Robinson), the mother of the team’s starting quarterback. Through Kelly and Tasha, Melanie learns how to navigate life in the spotlight alongside Derwin.
Watch The Game on Netflix.
Girlfriends (2000-2008) CBS The Game was actually spun off of Girlfriends , which was one of the most popular sitcoms on UPN/The CW. The show focuses on the friendship and bond between four women: Joan Carol Clayton, Esq: (Tracee Ellis Ross), Maya Denise Wilkes (Golden Brooks), Lynn Ann Searcy (Persia White), and Antoinette “Toni” Marie Childs-Garrett (Jill Marie Jones).
Each of these women is at very different places in their lives, and they don’t always see eye-to-eye. But for the most part, they support each other and maintain the bonds between them … with one exception that happens late in the series’ run.
Watch Girlfriends on Netflix.
Crashing (2016) Channel 4 Before she made a name for herself with Fleabag and Indiana Jones and the Dial of Destiny , Phoebe Waller-Bridge had a leading role on the short-lived British sitcom Crashing.
 The show is so named because Waller-Bridge’s character, Lulu, is the latest roommate to move into an abandoned hospital alongside one of her best friends, Anthony (Damien Molony), Anthony’s fiancée Kate (Louise Ford), Melody (Julie Dray), Sam (Jonathan Bailey), and Fred (Amit Shah).
Lulu’s arrival almost instantly causes problems for Anthony and Kate, especially when Lulu and Anthony start feeling a romantic attraction toward each other. Meanwhile, the entire group dynamic is so dysfunctional that it may bring their living arrangements to an abrupt end.
Watch Crashing on Netflix.
Ugly Betty (2006-2010) ABC Studios Barbie ‘s America Ferrera had her first breakout role as the star of Ugly Betty.
 The title character, Betty Suarez (Ferrera), is admittedly awkward and fashion-challenged. But Betty soon finds a life-altering career opportunity when she is hired to be a personal assistant at Mode, one of the top fashion magazines in the world.
Betty doesn’t waste much time making friends with her boss, Daniel Meade (Eric Mabius). And it’s a good thing too, because this workplace has a viper, Wilhelmina Slater (Vanessa Williams), who is dismissive of Betty and eager to displace Daniel so she can run Mode by herself. Regardless, it’s Betty’s innate goodness that makes the show so enjoyable.
Watch Ugly Betty on Netflix.
Editors' Recommendations The best new shows to stream on Netflix, Hulu, Max (HBO), and more The 50 best shows on Netflix in November 2023 The best movies and shows on Shudder right now (November 2023) The best Black movies on Netflix right now The 10 most popular movies on Netflix right now Best Products Netflix Streaming Guides Streaming Services Entertainment The best feel-good movies on Netflix right now include plenty of romantic comedies to watch while snuggling up with your partner, pet, or favorite blanket.
There's also a concert tour documentary courtesy of Taylor Swift, which is particularly topical due to the singing sensation's dominance of the pop culture zeitgeist. We've sorted through the best feel-good movies on Netflix and feel good about the list below.
Entertainment It's not hard to find a great comedy movie on Netflix. Unlike some other genres like sci-fi and fantasy, Netflix keeps its lineup of comedies well-stocked with some recent box-office hits, like Jennifer Lawrence's No Hard Feelings, as well as classic titles on loan from other studios and a lot of original films. This month's new additions include the first theatrical adaptation of The Addams Family, The Big Lebowski, and Scott Pilgrim vs. the World. It's pretty hard to go wrong with those flicks.
Comedies come and go, which is why it's important to stay glued to what's new on Netflix. If you're looking for laughs, these are the best comedies on Netflix right now.
Entertainment You're going to see a lot of Christmas movies on Hulu through the end of the year. 'Tis the season for the Huludays, after all. While we'll go over your Christmas options at a later date, this month's selections of the best movies on Hulu feature a new original film, Quiz Lady, as well as A Haunting in Venice, which recently finished its theatrical run. The other prominent new additions are Jumanji: Welcome to the Jungle and the comedy biopic Driven.
Need help keeping up with everything new on Hulu? Every month, we go over the greatest films that Hulu has to offer while keeping track of what's coming and going. That's why our update of the best movies on Hulu is always current. We're here to help you plan your next movie night.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
