Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix F1 Live Stream Stranger Things Season 5 Best New Movies Most Popular Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney+ UFC Live Stream Best Movies on Disney+ Home Entertainment Guides 10 best horror movies of the 1980s, ranked By Anthony Orlando Close The 1980s were a big time for horror cinema. Many bloody slashers, genre-benders, and video nasties popped up in this decade, and the fact many of them are so beloved has been a significant factor in the wave of ’80s nostalgia that has permeated pop culture in recent years.
10. The Evil Dead (1981) 9. A Nightmare on Elm Street (1984) 8. An American Werewolf in London (1981) 7. Evil Dead II (1987) 6. The Dead Zone (1983) 5. The Fly (1986) 4. Poltergeist (1982) 3. The Thing (1982) 2. Aliens (1986) 1. The Shining (1980) And with Halloween just around the corner, horror fans will likely be breaking out these classics this season, as they are hands-down the best scary pictures to have risen from the ’80s.
10. The Evil Dead (1981) New Line Cinema / New Line Cinema When a group of friends travels to an isolated cabin, they discover a copy of the Necronomicon and accidentally summon a demon that kills and possesses them one by one.
7 horror movie scenes that went too far The 7 best opening scenes in horror movies 10 best sci-fi movies of the 1980s, ranked Despite its low-budget acting and effects, director Sam Raimi’s film stood out as one of the most gory and visually distinctive horror films at the time. With The Evil Dead receiving a glowing review from author Stephen King, its popularity launched an iconic franchise and some stellar careers for those involved.
9. A Nightmare on Elm Street (1984) New Line Cinema / New Line Cinema In one of the most revolutionary films in the slasher genre, the spirit of a murdered serial killer hunts down the children of Springwood inside their dreams with his razor-sharp fingers, causing their blood to spill in the real world.
Such a unique premise by director Wes Craven leads to some inventive scares that broke new ground for horror cinema, with Freddy Krueger becoming one of the most distinguished villains ever to haunt audiences’ dreams.
8. An American Werewolf in London (1981) Universal Pictures / Universal Pictures While backpacking with his friend in the moors of England, a young man gets bitten by a werewolf that curses him to become one himself on the next full moon.
With its Oscar-winning makeup effects, particularly those in its iconic transformation scene, An American Werewolf in London became a groundbreaking hit whose blend of humor and horror opened the door for more scary comedy films to shine in theaters.
7. Evil Dead II (1987) Renaissance Pictures / Renaissance Pictures Though Ash survived his first night with the Deadites, this remake/sequel has him fight off these evil creatures again as he remains trapped and on his own in the woods.
With Ash becoming an action hero with his chainsaw hand and boomstick, this beloved film reinvented the Evil Dead franchise as a comedic splatterfest with its over-the-top gore, scares, and jokes.
6. The Dead Zone (1983) Paramount Pictures / Paramount Pictures In this classic Stephen King adaptation , schoolteacher Johnny Smith awakens from a five-year coma to find that he has gained the ability to see the future of whoever he touches.
As Smith receives such horrific premonitions, he struggles to live a normal life again with his newfound fame and loss of his true love, making his journey a chilling and poignant tale that balances the real and supernatural. And let’s be fair. Christopher Walken proves he was born to play the lead in this film.
5. The Fly (1986) Warner Bros. / Warner Bros.
After a scientist tests his new teleportation device on himself, his DNA gets mixed with that of an ordinary housefly, causing him to mutate into a giant fly-hybrid in a process that slowly consumes his mind.
With its outstanding lead cast(Jeff Goldblum was never better) and grotesque makeup effects, director David Cronenberg’s reboot captured the true horror and tragedy of Seth Brundle’s tale of a science experiment gone wrong.
4. Poltergeist (1982) MGM / MGM “They’re here …” Helmed by Tobe Hooper and Steven Spielberg, this film follows the Freeling family as they are tormented by spirits infesting their new home, appearing as a possessed clown doll, a giant tree monster, and many other frightening monstrosities.
Blending science and superstition, Poltergeist is a wondrous and terrifying ghost story that grabs audiences by the heart, pulls them into the light, and doesn’t let go.
3. The Thing (1982) Universal Pictures Halloween director John Carpenter brought a new vision of alien horror with this cult classic. When a group of researchers encounter a shapeshifting alien in Antarctica, they all become consumed with fear and distrust as the titular creature hides amongst them, threatening to assimilate them all.
With its well-crafted scares and some high-class practical effects that look realistic forty years later, The Thing went from a spectacular flop to a beloved masterpiece that fans continue to debate and deconstruct.
2. Aliens (1986) 20th Century Studios / 20th Century Studios Following her traumatic first encounter with the Xenomorphs, sci-fi female lead Ellen Ripley wakes up from cryostasis and joins the Colonial Marines in their mission to rescue the people of a colony overrun with these killer aliens.
James Cameron’s sequel elevated the franchise into action-packed territory with this horrific and explosive display of sci-fi warfare that never ceases to thrill its audience.
1. The Shining (1980) Warner Bros. / Warner Bros.
When an alcoholic writer becomes the caretaker of the Overlook Hotel, he, his wife, and their psychic child become haunted by the many spirits inhabiting this mountain resort.
While it may have been widely criticized by audiences and Stephen King himself, Stanley Kubrick’s film has built up a lot of praise in the years since its release. With its chilling setup, beautiful cinematography, and haunting performance by Jack Nicholson, this film will continue to wow and terrify audiences forever … and ever … and ever.
Editors' Recommendations 10 best horror movies of the 1970s, ranked 7 coolest deaths in horror movies, ranked 10 best social horror and thriller movies, ranked Like Insidious: The Red Door? Then watch these 6 great horror movies just like it 5 movies and TV shows about the Boogeyman that you need to watch Entertainment November has been a great month for movies at Netflix, with the premiere of David Fincher's The Killer, and recent box office hits like Insidious: The Red Door and Spider-Man: Across the Spider-Verse. This week, the new additions include The Impossible, a 2012 survival thriller that has already landed on the list of the 10 most popular movies on Netflix. For younger viewers, Minions is also heating up the charts despite the pending departure of the other films in the franchise at the end of the month.
There's only one holiday weekend left in November, so what's the best way to stay on top of everything new on Netflix? Why, we are, of course. Our list of the best movies on Netflix right now is updated every Friday, even on holiday weekends, so you can easily find something for every movie lover in your life.
Entertainment Summer is long over, and the fall season is in full swing. It's now late 2023, and just about everyone is subscribed to Netflix and Hulu. But would you be surprised if I told you one of the most underrated streaming services around is Tubi? The upstart streamer has tons of new and old TV shows from every decade and every genre imaginable. Want to watch the buzziest series that aired on Max? Tubi has it. Are you feeling nostalgic about that old movie or cartoon you used to watch as a kid in the '80s or '90s? Chances are, Tubi has it.
Tubi has so much content that it can be hard to choose which shows and films are worth your time. Digital Trends is here to help you sort out which ones are worth watching. Even though the streaming service is free, time is valuable, and no one wants to waste it watching subpar content.
Entertainment Rather than waiting for the Thanksgiving holiday weekend, Apple TV+ and Netflix dropped two of their biggest shows of the fall this week. Netflix's The Crown kicked off its sixth and final season with four new episodes, while the Apple TV+ Godzilla-adjacent series Monarch: Legacy of Monster, dropped its first two episodes this week, with new episodes arriving weekly thereafter. Also this week, Scott Pilgrim Takes Off hits Netflix, while Max gets in on the act this week by premiering the second season of Julia.
Netflix, Amazon Prime Video, Hulu, Max, Apple TV+, Disney+, Paramount+, and Peacock still have new shows coming for the rest of November, including a handful arriving next week. But if you've been thinking about cutting back on your streaming bill, then perhaps you should consider signing up for the ad-supported tiers. In the meantime, keep reading for our weekly roundup of the best new shows to stream.
When you're done here, check out the best new movies to stream this week, as well as the best shows on Netflix, best shows on Hulu, best shows on Amazon Prime Video, and best shows on Disney+.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
