Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix F1 Live Stream Stranger Things Season 5 Best New Movies Most Popular Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney+ UFC Live Stream Best Movies on Disney+ Home Entertainment Features 5 things we want to see in Eli Roth’s Thanksgiving horror movie By Anthony Orlando Close Horror icon Eli Roth is just about to begin directing his next scary film, Thanksgiving , and it’s been a long time coming. Roth had filmed a fake trailer for this make-believe movie as part of director Robert Rodriguez and Quentin Tarantino’s 2007 double feature, Grindhouse.
 The trailer itself acts as a parody of classic holiday-themed horror movies like Halloween and Black Christmas , and though Grindhouse was very much a turkey in theaters, fans couldn’t get enough of Roth’s fake film. And so, Thanksgiving will now become the fourth film based on the faux trailers featured in Grindhouse.
The Pilgrim Those two cops Excessive gore and violence Self-aware humor Homages to classic horror movies Thanksgiving is set to begin production in March, with Spyglass ( Scream , Hellraiser ) producing it and frequent Roth collaborator Jeff Rendell penning the script. While it’s unknown when the film will be released, die-hard fans have waited over 15 years for this film to be made, so they should have no problem waiting a bit longer. And audiences eager for Thanksgiving should expect to have their appetites satisfied if the film serves up these things in theaters.
The Pilgrim Image used with permission by copyright holder A good slasher movie is nothing without its throat-slitting antagonist, and naturally, Thanksgiving’s villain takes the form of a man dressed as a pilgrim, complete with a buckle hat, an ax, and a carving knife. According to Roth’s interview with Rolling Stone , the Pilgrim murdered his family as a child after his father killed a turkey that he fell in love with. Years after he was sent away to a psychiatric hospital, the Pilgrim returns to his home in Plymouth, Massachusetts, to wreak havoc on the townspeople.
5 things we want to see in a DCEU/MCU movie crossover Who needs Scream 6? These movies are the 5 best horror sequels of all time 5 things we want to see in a Dexter prequel It’s the stereotypical slasher origin story in the vein of Michael Myers, which fits with the film’s parody/homage of Halloween.
 However, since the killer’s backstory was written many years ago, it’s unknown if it’ll stay the same for Thanksgiving ‘s more modern film adaptation. Nevertheless, the Pilgrim should continue to serve up many creative and memorable scares to make a lasting impression on audiences with his frightful holiday feast.
Those two cops Image used with permission by copyright holder The film’s fake trailer briefly features a couple of cops, who look like they’ve seen it all, investigating the scene of one of the Pilgrim’s murders. If things are to stay intact for the upcoming film, having these two police officers appear in the movie could elevate the story by making it into a police comedy.
Since it is supposed to be a parody of old slasher movies, so these two guys could throw in more humor via a possible buddy-cop dynamic as they pursue the killer, which could help Thanksgiving stand out from other horror films. Also, one of those cops in the trailer is played by Michael Biehn, a genre vet who starred in The Terminator and Aliens.
 If Roth gets him to return, it’s a double win for both the movie and fans.
Excessive gore and violence Image used with permission by copyright holder Roth has been infamous for stuffing explicit content into films like Cabin Fever and Hostel , the latter of which was credited for starting the “torture porn” subgenre. Fans of Roth’s work should expect to see more of the director’s brand of bloody content, and Grindhouse has already given them an idea of what they might see.
The fake trailer for Thanksgiving featured the Pilgrim decapitating a man dressed as a turkey, a trampolining cheerleader getting stabbed beneath the skirt, and a severed head stuffed into a turkey. Based on these moments, the movie will be NSFW, to say the least. And since this was just the trailer, one can only imagine what Roth has in store for the actual film.
Self-aware humor Image used with permission by copyright holder Grindhouse’s trailer for Thanksgiving fully embraces the ridiculousness of the movie’s premise — and then some — with its over-the-top scares, corny Thanksgiving puns, and sexual content typically found in slasher films.
There’s even a brief shot of the Pilgrim “stuffing himself” inside the turkey with the decapitated head right at the end of the trailer. Hopefully, Roth’s actual film will continue to revel in its silliness to create a humorous and self-aware story that audiences can enjoy.
Homages to classic horror movies Image used with permission by copyright holder Thanksgiving’s trailer features plenty of loving homages to classic slasher films that display Roth’s knowledge of the genre. For instance, the trailer opens with a point-of-view shot of the Pilgrim entering a house and killing someone with a knife in an obvious homage to Halloween.
 The trailer’s score is also very similar to director John Carpenter’s classic synth soundtrack from Halloween.
Hopefully, Roth will integrate many more scenes in his film that will pay tribute to vintage horror movies. Doing so could help the film convey a metacommentary for the genre similar to recent slashers like 2022’s Scream and Ti West’s X.
But more importantly, it could deliver the same appeal to audiences that made them love the trailer so much, making Roth’s movie a tasty treat for fans of horror.
Editors' Recommendations Is Final Destination the best horror franchise we have right now? Is there going to be a John Wick: Chapter 5? Here’s what we want to see happen 5 unmade movies we want to see The 7 best cabin horror movies ever, ranked 6 movies coming in February you need to watch Features Entertainment 25 years ago, on September 9, 1997, Cube premiered at the Toronto International Film Festival. The movie centers on a small group of strangers who wake up trapped in a giant cube…connected to other cubes…making up one gigantic cube. Adding to the tension is that some of the cubes are rigged with traps and only a mathematical formula derived from the room numbers can reveal which rooms are and aren’t safe. Sadism, mystery, claustrophobia, and paranoia combine, creating a surprisingly tense, scary, and smart movie.
The movie, known primarily to hardcore genre fans, is a masterwork of storytelling, creating the idea of a giant underground prison using only two small sets that were reused and repurposed over and over again throughout filming. The true terror of Cube comes from its idea - being trapped, perhaps senselessly, and feeling the imminence of death. It's a film that holds up a quarter of a century after its release, and deserves to be seen by a wider audience.
A simple yet ingenious concept Entertainment Abduction is a pretty common trope in the horror genre. Movies like The Black Phone revolves around a serial killer who kidnaps kids, but with a supernatural twist. The movie, which stars Ethan Hawke, may wind up being a great new entry in the horror canon, but for now, we're looking back at some recent movies that have something in common with The Black Phone. If you're looking for something similar to put on next, look no further.
Sinister (2012) Entertainment November has been a great month for movies at Netflix, with the premiere of David Fincher's The Killer, and recent box office hits like Insidious: The Red Door and Spider-Man: Across the Spider-Verse. This week, the new additions include The Impossible, a 2012 survival thriller that has already landed on the list of the 10 most popular movies on Netflix. For younger viewers, Minions is also heating up the charts despite the pending departure of the other films in the franchise at the end of the month.
There's only one holiday weekend left in November, so what's the best way to stay on top of everything new on Netflix? Why, we are, of course. Our list of the best movies on Netflix right now is updated every Friday, even on holiday weekends, so you can easily find something for every movie lover in your life.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
