Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix F1 Live Stream Stranger Things Season 5 Best New Movies Most Popular Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney+ UFC Live Stream Best Movies on Disney+ Home Entertainment Guides Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? 7 biggest horror movie bombs of all time, ranked by adjusted box office losses By Dan Girolamo Close In a theatrical landscape dominated by franchises, sequels, and IP, horror remains one of the most reliable genres at the box office. Audiences have proven they will come out to the theater for horror movies. Classics like Jaws and The Exorcist are among the biggest horror hits of all time.
 The horror genre also has spawned numerous success stories of low-budget films churning huge profits. Notable examples include Paranormal Activity and The Blair Witch Project.
7. Ghostbusters (2016) – $91 million loss 6. The New Mutants (2020) – $95 million loss 5. The Invasion (2007) – $100 million loss 4. The Wolfman (2010) – $102 million loss 3. A Sound of Thunder (2005) – $111 million loss 2. Beloved (1998) – $123 million loss 1. Supernova (2000) – $141 million loss However, not every horror film can be a hit. Some movies flop hard at the box office, with losses exceeding $100 million. Below, we listed the seven biggest horror movie bombs of all time, ranked by their estimated losses adjusted for inflation.
Note: The numerical figures next to each title are estimated losses that have been adjusted for inflation. Box office numbers used are courtesy of Box Office Mojo.
7. Ghostbusters (2016) – $91 million loss Sony The original Ghostbusters with Bill Murray, Dan Aykroyd, and Harold Ramis was 1984’s highest-grossing film at the domestic box office with a $220 million take..
Ghostbusters spawned an entire media franchise, including multiple sequels, animated TV shows, video games, and comic books. People still know who to call when something’s strange in their neighborhood because of the iconic theme song.
Unfortunately, Paul Feig’s 2016 remake failed to make any cultural impact. The female-led Ghostbusters included Melissa McCarthy, Kristen Wiig, Kate McKinnon, and Leslie Jones, with Chris Hemsworth playing their receptionist. Despite positive reviews, Ghostbusters failed to find an audience, grossing $229 million on a $144 million budget. However, due to marketing costs and reshoots, Sony lost over $70 million ($91 million when adjusted for inflation) on the reboot.
Rent Ghostbusters on Prime Video , YouTube , Google Play , or Apple TV.
6. The New Mutants (2020) – $95 million loss 20th Century Studios With superhero fatigue setting in, adjusting the formula for comic book characters in a film isn’t such a bad idea. A superhero horror film like The New Mutants is interesting on paper.
The New Mutants follows five teenage mutants – Wolfsbane (Maisie Williams), Magik (Anya Taylor-Joy), Cannonball (Charlie Heaton), Mirage (Blu Hunt), and Sunspot (Henry Zaga) – who are sent to a mysterious hospital to cure them of their powers. However, the hospital soon becomes a house of horrors as they must fight to survive.
Despite a unique take on the superhero genre, The New Mutants failed to execute both critically and commercially.
The New Mutants was scheduled to do reshoots in 2018, which is normal for any movie. However, the release date was delayed multiple times, which is never a good sign.
The New Mutants had four different release dates from 2018 through 2020 before it finally settled on August 28, 2020, which fell during the heart of the COVID-19 pandemic.
The New Mutants grossed $49 million on a rumored budget nearing $80 million. When adjusted for inflation, The New Mutants lost $95 million due in part to the constant delays.
Stream The New Mutants on Disney+ or Hulu.
5. The Invasion (2007) – $100 million loss Warner Bros. Pictures Jack Finney’s The Body Snatchers is a 1955 sci-fi novel about an alien invasion that uses special seeds to produce replicants of humans while sleeping. The novel has been adapted four times since its release. The first two adaptions – Don Siegel’s Invasion of the Body Snatchers in 1956 and Philip Kaufman’s 1978 remake – have been hailed as horror classics, while 1993’s Body Snatchers by Abel Ferrara was less successful than the previous two iterations, but still received positive acclaim from critics.
The fourth adaptation – 2007’s The Invasion – was a failure. Directed by Oliver Hirschbiegel, The Invasion stars Nicole Kidman and Daniel Craig as the two doctors who discovered the alien virus and attempted to stop it from spreading.
The Invasion is the least effective adaption of Body Snatchers , as it lacks the story and spirit of its predecessors. Against a rumored $80 million budget, The Invasion grossed $40 million for an adjusted loss of $100 million.
Rent The Invasion on Prime Video , YouTube , Google Play , or Apple TV.
4. The Wolfman (2010) – $102 million loss Universal Pictures One year before directing 2011’s Captain America: The First Avenger , Joe Johnston helmed The Wolfman , a remake of the 1941 film of the same name. After his brother goes missing, Lawrence Talbot (Benicio del Toro) returns home to investigate. One night in the village, Lawrence is bitten by a werewolf, which he soon learns is his estranged father, Sir John (Anthony Hopkins). Lawrence now has the family curse and turns into a ravaged beast during a full moon.
The Wolfman isn’t a bad movie, and it managed to win the Oscar for Best Makeup at the 83rd Academy Awards. However, The Wolfman is a forgettable story with so-so special effects that doesn’t justify the $150 million budget. It’s a classic case of not knowing the target audience beforehand.
The Wolfman grossed under $140 million worldwide for a total adjusted loss of $102 million.
Stream The Wolfman on Tubi and Peacock.
3. A Sound of Thunder (2005) – $111 million loss Warner Bros. Pictures Peter Hyams’ directorial career is fascinating to revisit. After breaking out with Capricorn One, Hyams directed memorable 1980s films 2010: The Year We Make Contact and Running Scared.
 In the 1990s, Hyams made Timecop and Sudden Death , two action films with Jean-Claude Van Damme, and the action-horror flick End of Days starring FUBAR’s Arnold Schwarzenegger.
 Judging by his filmography, Hyams was not afraid to take risks, and his biggest one came in 2005 with A Sound of Thunder.
Based on the 1952 short story by Ray Bradbury, A Sound of Thunder depicts the year 2055, when millionaires can travel back to the future to hunt dinosaurs. However, a crucial mistake committed in the past negatively alters the future, forcing some of the time travelers to go back and right the wrong. Starring Edward Burns, Ben Kingsley, and Catherine McCormack, A Sound of Thunder was destroyed by critics ( 6% on the Tomatometer ). The film only made $11 million on an $80 million budget, which, when adjusted for inflation, comes out to an estimated loss of $111 million.
Rent A Sound of Thunder on Prime Video , YouTube , Google Play , or Apple TV.
2. Beloved (1998) – $123 million loss Buena Vista Pictures Distribution The 1998 film Beloved had all the right pieces of a hit movie. The film was based on the Pulitzer Prize-winning novel by author Toni Morrison about a former Civil War slave haunted by a poltergeist.
Beloved had an Academy Award-winning director helming the project in Jonathan Demme. The cast featured Danny Glover, Thandie Newton, and Oprah Winfrey , who was a megastar thanks to her successful daytime talk show.
Beloved was praised by critics like Roger Ebert , who gave it 3.5/4 stars.
Yet, Beloved could not break through at the box office, grossing just $22 million on an $80 million budget for a loss of $123 million when adjusted for inflation. Oprah famously told Vogue about how the failure of Beloved sunk her into a depression. After a studio head mentioned that Beloved lost to the Bride of Chucky on the opening weekend at the box office, Oprah decided to eat macaroni and cheese for breakfast to cope with the bad news.
Rent Beloved on Prime Video , YouTube , Google Play , or Apple TV.
1. Supernova (2000) – $141 million loss MGM When a director asks for his name removed from the film’s credits, that’s never a good sign. The director and film in question are Walter Hill and 2000’s Supernova , a sci-fi adventure horror about a six-person crew’s deep space rescue attempt at a mining operation on a moon more than 3,000 light-years away. The film stars James Spader, Angela Bassett, Lou Diamond Phillips, Peter Facinelli, Robin Tunney, Wilson Cruz, and Robert Forster.
Hill, best known for directing 48 Hrs.
and producing Alien , quit Supernova after a test screening of the unfinished film received negative reviews from the audience. MGM hired Jack Sholder to direct the reshoots since Hill refused to return.
Francis Ford Coppola was then brought in to re-edit the film. Nearly two years after principal photography ended in 1998, Supernova was finally released on January 14, 2000.
Supernova made just $14 million on a rumored budget of $60 million to $90 million. Adjusted for inflation, the film lost $141 million, and Hill is credited under the alias “Thomas Lee.” Stream on Prime Video , Tubi , or Pluto TV.
Editors' Recommendations The biggest horror hits of all time, ranked by adjusted box office gross Entertainment November has been a great month for movies at Netflix, with the premiere of David Fincher's The Killer, and recent box office hits like Insidious: The Red Door and Spider-Man: Across the Spider-Verse. This week, the new additions include The Impossible, a 2012 survival thriller that has already landed on the list of the 10 most popular movies on Netflix. For younger viewers, Minions is also heating up the charts despite the pending departure of the other films in the franchise at the end of the month.
There's only one holiday weekend left in November, so what's the best way to stay on top of everything new on Netflix? Why, we are, of course. Our list of the best movies on Netflix right now is updated every Friday, even on holiday weekends, so you can easily find something for every movie lover in your life.
Entertainment Summer is long over, and the fall season is in full swing. It's now late 2023, and just about everyone is subscribed to Netflix and Hulu. But would you be surprised if I told you one of the most underrated streaming services around is Tubi? The upstart streamer has tons of new and old TV shows from every decade and every genre imaginable. Want to watch the buzziest series that aired on Max? Tubi has it. Are you feeling nostalgic about that old movie or cartoon you used to watch as a kid in the '80s or '90s? Chances are, Tubi has it.
Tubi has so much content that it can be hard to choose which shows and films are worth your time. Digital Trends is here to help you sort out which ones are worth watching. Even though the streaming service is free, time is valuable, and no one wants to waste it watching subpar content.
Entertainment Rather than waiting for the Thanksgiving holiday weekend, Apple TV+ and Netflix dropped two of their biggest shows of the fall this week. Netflix's The Crown kicked off its sixth and final season with four new episodes, while the Apple TV+ Godzilla-adjacent series Monarch: Legacy of Monster, dropped its first two episodes this week, with new episodes arriving weekly thereafter. Also this week, Scott Pilgrim Takes Off hits Netflix, while Max gets in on the act this week by premiering the second season of Julia.
Netflix, Amazon Prime Video, Hulu, Max, Apple TV+, Disney+, Paramount+, and Peacock still have new shows coming for the rest of November, including a handful arriving next week. But if you've been thinking about cutting back on your streaming bill, then perhaps you should consider signing up for the ad-supported tiers. In the meantime, keep reading for our weekly roundup of the best new shows to stream.
When you're done here, check out the best new movies to stream this week, as well as the best shows on Netflix, best shows on Hulu, best shows on Amazon Prime Video, and best shows on Disney+.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
