Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix F1 Live Stream Stranger Things Season 5 Best New Movies Most Popular Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney+ UFC Live Stream Best Movies on Disney+ Home Entertainment Guides Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? 3 great PG-13 horror movies to check out if you like the Five Nights at Freddy’s movie By Joe Allen Close October is supposed to be the best time to watch a scary movie , but that doesn’t necessarily mean it’s always easy to find exactly what you’re looking for. Sometimes, you check out the movies in theaters and then find yourself at a loss when it comes to sorting through your various subscriptions to find something similar.
Happy Death Day (2017) Drag Me to Hell (2009) M3GAN (2022) This year, the big horror movie for Halloween weekend is Five Nights at Freddy’s.
 And if you’re looking for something similar to check out at home, then you’re in luck. We’ve got a list of three similar PG-13 titles that you can watch from the comfort of your couch.
Happy Death Day (2017) A mash-up of the slasher genre and movies about a person trapped in the same day, the film follows a self-centered college student who is forced to live the same day over and over again until she can figure out who murdered her. The movie features a number of fairly thrilling chase sequences, but Happy Death Day is definitely on the lighter side of scary.
3 underrated 1980s sci-fi TV shows you should watch in November 3 underrated movies on Peacock you need to watch in November Check out this great movie before it leaves Hulu next week The movie is filled with jokes, many of them focused on the way that this poor young woman comes to understand every single beat of the day that she is currently living through. Movies about someone living a single day over and over can be tiresome, but Happy Death Day is wonderful from beginning to end.
Happy Death Day is can be rented or purchased on Prime Video and other digital vendors.
Drag Me to Hell (2009) A movie that takes an almost perverse delight in torturing its central character, Drag Me to Hell tells the story of a loan officer at a bank who is cursed after she denies an old woman a loan.
Drag Me to Hell ‘s brilliance comes largely from director Sam Raimi , who lets all of his Evil Dead instincts come back out to play here.
Drag Me to Hell is unsettling, but it’s also perversely funny, especially in its final, horrifying twist. Few movies can pull off the careful tone management that Drag Me to Hell manages from beginning to end, but that’s what makes this movie such a joy.
Drag Me to Hell is streaming on Prime Video.
M3GAN (2022) Telling a story very similar to Freddy’s , at least in terms of its killer doll, M3GAN follows a young girl who becomes friends with an advanced doll that is coded to protect her. As you might expect, the doll eventually begins to kill and maim people to achieve that end, often in particularly gruesome fashion.
Like all of the movies on this list, M3GAN is both scary and pretty funny, and some of the joy of the movie comes from laughing at the moments that are supposed to be scary. It’s a tonal mishmash that works perfectly, which is part of the reason the movie became such a massive hit.
M3GAN is streaming on Prime Video.
Editors' Recommendations This underrated 2023 horror movie on Netflix deserves more love. Here’s why you should watch it Among Us could be the next hit video game movie like Five Nights at Freddy’s. Here’s why 5 movies like Five Nights at Freddy’s you should watch right now Check out this great romantic drama before it leaves Netflix next week Is Five Nights at Freddy’s streaming? Entertainment Max, formerly known as HBO, has an impressive library of movies and shows that make it one of the best streaming services out there. The best movies on Max are a healthy mix offering everything a film aficionado could want, from classics produced during Hollywood’s Golden Age to modern superhero fare. October will see several great movies leaving the site, including the 1942 horror classic Cat People.
Directed by Jacques Tourneur, Cat People is among the most singular and striking horror pictures from the 1940s. The plot is surreal and often ridiculous, yet undeniably compelling. This underrated horror classic is daring, fascinating, and uncompromisingly unique, featuring a now-infamous performance from Simone Simon and a premise that walks a fine line between the riveting and the outright ridiculous. Movie lovers will probably have already seen it – some might consider it required viewing for anyone who considers themselves a cinephile. However, those who haven’t should absolutely give it a chance. So, if you’re looking for a spooky film to watch this Halloween season, why not try Cat People before it leaves Max on October 31? The plot Entertainment Every great streaming service has a bevy of worthy movies for you to check out. Unfortunately, given the fractured nature of the streaming landscape, it can be nearly impossible to keep track of what titles are on what service.
Prime Video has an ideal combination of archived titles and originals, and one of those archived titles is well worth checking out before it leaves the service. The Bad News Bears is one of the great sports movies of the 1970s. Here are three reasons you should check it out before the movie leaves Prime Video at the end of October.
It's the template for all your favorite sports movies Entertainment When it comes to horror movies, one of the best places to catch the genre’s latest and greatest entries is with an Amazon Prime Video subscription. That being said, scrolling through the platform’s many terror titles can be a terrorizing endeavor unto itself. Let’s just say there are plenty of duds out there, which is why it’s our job to unearth Prime Video’s best horror content.
Our monthly roundup includes some of the platform’s newest movies, as well as some celebrated horror classics. So strap in, dim the lights, and get ready to scream! Here are the best horror movies you can stream on Prime Video for November 2023.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
