Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Netflix Original Movies Best Comedies on Netflix Best Netflix Original Series Best Anime on Netflix Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Fantasy Movies on Netflix Home Entertainment Guides The Fall of the House of Usher’s ending, explained By Alex Welch Close Eike Schroter / Netflix Warning: This article contains spoilers for The Fall of the House of Usher (2023).
How The Fall of the House of Usher sets up its big finale The deaths mount and the mystery deepens How does The Fall of the House of Usher end? The first episode of Netflix’s The Fall of the House of Usher sets up a few mysteries that the series doesn’t solve until its eighth and final installment. The first is, of course, why Verna (Carla Gugino) even chose to orchestrate the deaths of all of the Usher children. It’s also unclear initially why Lenore (Kyliegh Curran) is constantly texting her grandfather, Roderick (Bruce Greenwood), during his conversation with C. Auguste Dupin (Carl Lumbly). Lastly, there’s the nature of the mysterious “confession” that Roderick has promised Dupin. After all, what could a man so blatantly unscrupulous possibly have to confess? How The Fall of the House of Usher sets up its big finale The Fall of the House of Usher ’s finale, fortunately, answers all of these questions. Early on, the episode flashes back in time to finally reveal what happened the night that Roderick and his sister, Madeline (played in her youth by Willa Fitzgerald), first crossed paths with Verna. As anyone who has read Edgar Allan Poe’s The Cask of Amontillado may have guessed, it’s revealed that the two used Fortunato Pharmaceuticals’ 1980 New Year’s Eve party as a way to lure Roderick’s boss, Rufus Griswold (Michael Trucco), into the company’s basement. The two then drugged Rufus and sealed him alive behind a brick wall in order to complete their takeover of Fortunato. (The twinkling Roderick has heard throughout the series and the jester that’s haunted him are both callbacks to the costume Rufus was wearing the night he was killed.) The Hunger Games: The Ballad of Songbirds & Snakes’ ending, explained The Morning Show season 3 ending, explained His House is the scariest movie on Netflix right now. Here’s why you should watch it In order to cover up their crime, Roderick and Madeline went to the closest bar they could find: Verna’s. Once there, she offered them a deal: She’d ensure their unlimited success if they agreed to defer their “payment” for her supernatural protection to the next generation of Ushers. Without much hesitation, Roderick and Madeline agreed. The deaths of his children are, in other words, the outcome of a deal that he himself willingly made decades prior because he believed they’d be better off living short lives of luxury than ever knowing what it’s like to struggle financially. That same New Year’s Eve night, Verna promised that Roderick’s children wouldn’t die until his own time came, which is why it was his own fatal diagnosis that commenced the start of his kids’ deaths.
Eike Schroter / Netflix In its opening third, The Fall of the House of Usher episode 8 additionally reveals that not only was it Roderick’s selfishness that broke up his marriage to Annabel Lee (Katie Parker), but that he later used his wealth to lure their kids away from her. It’s implied that she killed herself after losing the love and attention of her children — the very same ones Roderick had already condemned to die by that point. His adult children aren’t the only people that Verna has to kill as part of her deal with Roderick and Madeline, either.
In one of The Fall of the House of Usher ’s most moving scenes, Verna pays a visit to Lenore, tells her about the positive impact her life will ultimately have on the world, expresses her sincere regret over the nature of their conversation, and then painlessly kills her. It’s not, therefore, Lenore that has been texting Roderick throughout the Netflix series, but the AI bot version of her that she’d innocently begun to develop with her aunt, Mary McDonnell’s older Madeline.
The deaths mount and the mystery deepens Following Lenore’s death, Verna begins to torment Roderick with visions of her body, all while revealing her true form as a shapeshifting Raven (Verna is an anagram for “Raven”). She shows him the staggering number of people that his and Fortunato Pharmaceuticals’ drugs have killed and orders him to confess his crimes to Auguste Dupin. Before he does, however, he reveals one more surprising secret: Prior to Auguste’s arrival at their meeting, Roderick reunited with Madeline and poisoned her in order to ensure that their debt with Verna would be fully settled by the end of the night.
Netflix Roderick then cut out Madeline’s eyes and replaced them with sapphires in order to send her into the afterlife like the Egyptian queens of old. Unfortunately, just like the Usher siblings failed to do with their mother years prior, Roderick didn’t double-check to make sure that Madeline was truly dead before he locked her in her own sarcophagus. As a result, the creaking and pounding that Auguste previously heard coming from the basement was, it turns out, the efforts of a still-alive Madeline trying to break free.
And break free she does. Roderick’s sister comes stumbling up the stairs, blue sapphires where her eyes used to be, and promptly strangles him to death while their childhood home collapses on top of them. The moment brings the Usher family’s story full circle — ending with a reflection of the moment when Roderick and Madeline watched their barely-living mother strangle their uncaring father to death in front of their eyes.
How does The Fall of the House of Usher end? Carl Lumbly’s Auguste, thankfully, manages to make it out of the Usher household alive. Before Roderick dies, he finally gives Auguste the confession he’d promised him hours earlier, too. In the moments before Madeline’s escape, Roderick tells Auguste that deep down he knew the deal he and Madeline had made with Verna was real. “I knew I would climb to the top of the tower on a pile of corpses,” he says. “We told them it was about soothing the world’s pain. That’s the biggest lie we told. You can’t eliminate pain.” “There’s no such thing as a painkiller. Imagine if we’d put that on the bottle?” Roderick muses. “I bet I still could have sold it.” In its closing moments, the Fall of the House of Usher finale reveals that Roderick’s wife, Juno (Ruth Codd), inherited everything after his death, dissolved Fortunato Pharmaceuticals, and transformed it into a drug rehabilitation foundation. Verna, meanwhile, takes a moment to pay a final visit to the Usher family’s graves, placing symbolic items atop each tombstone (ex. A phone for Camille, a whiskey glass for Roderick). It’s a darkly funny conclusion and one that further drives home The Fall of the House of Usher ’s core themes.
When they were alive, the Ushers (Lenore excluded) saw life as a series of deals to be made. Roderick and Madeline, in particular, were fine with dooming the next generation if it meant immediate luxury for them. In the end, though, all the Ushers’ greed leaves them with is death and a few things.
 It’s hard to imagine a fate worse than that.
The Fall of the House of Usher is streaming now on Netflix.
Editors' Recommendations Thanksgiving’s ending, explained The Marvels’ ending, explained 3 best shows like American Horror Story you should watch Like Fall of the House of Usher? Then watch these 5 TV shows that are just like it The Walking Dead: Daryl Dixon ending, explained Netflix Streaming Services Entertainment Edgar Allan Poe is one of the creepiest, darkest authors in history, and in some ways, he invented the genre we now know as horror. In spite of his enormous influence, though, there have been fewer Poe adaptations than you might think.
With the arrival of Mike Flannagan's The Fall of the House of Usher on Netflix, we're getting one of the splashiest adaptations of a Poe work we've ever seen. Even so, this new series isn't the first time that Poe has been adapted. Here are three of the best movies based on the horror author's legendary work.
The Masque of the Red Death (1964) The Masque of the Red Death - Vincent Price (1964) - Official Trailer Entertainment Each season, Hulu’s Only Murders in the Building brings an exciting new whodunit murder mystery complete with a new set of potential killers. Every season also adds impressive cast members, and for season three, that includes Paul Rudd and Meryl Streep in pivotal roles. As usual, the episodes follow Mabel (Selena Gomez), Oliver (Martin Short), and Charles (Steve Martin) as they run their own investigation to uncover the truth, creating podcast episodes to chronicle each discovery and theory.
The story in season 3 picks up where season 2 ended, with Rudd’s character Ben dying on stage in front of a crowd during the opening night of Oliver’s play. Mabel, looking on from the audience, has that “oh no, not again” face. But how does it all play out? Everyone is a suspect Entertainment Warning: This article contains spoilers for The Creator (2023).
Early in The Creator, its hero, Joshua (John David Washington), is assigned by his military superiors to track down and kill the mysterious figure known as “Nimata,” the creator of a new AI weapon that's supposedly capable of ending the war between the anti-AI U.S. and the robotic and human civilians of New Asia. It’s during this mission that Joshua crosses paths with the weapon in question, an AI child named Alphie (Madeleine Yuna Voyles), who has the power to remotely shut down any technological devices in close proximity to her.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
