Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix F1 Live Stream Stranger Things Season 5 Best New Movies Most Popular Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney+ UFC Live Stream Best Movies on Disney+ Home Entertainment Guides The Morning Show season 3 ending, explained By Christine Persaud Close The Morning Show has always done a good job of telling stories that mirror real life, and season 3 is no different. While the season ends in such a way that could easily wrap up the story for all the characters (albeit with a few loose ends), fans will be pleased to know that the Apple TV+ original series, one of its first, has been renewed for a fourth season.
The state of UBA A delicate balance Everything comes to a head How The Morning Show season 2 ends The story in season 3 takes things in new directions, once again. It picks up following the end of the COVID-19 pandemic. The episodes touch on everything from the Fourth Estate and the future of legacy media to journalistic integrity and topical political issues, all leading to an explosive end.
The state of UBA Apple TV+ Central to the story through season 3 is the financial state of the UBA network. Alex Levy ( Friends star Jennifer Aniston) doesn’t know how financially strained the network is, and she’s clamoring for a piece of a not-so-big pie. Cory Ellison (Billy Crudup), meanwhile, is secretly talking with a billionaire named Paul Marx (Jon Hamm in a new role) to buy the company. He thinks an injection of cash might save the network, but wants to do it quietly — and naively believes he’ll still be in charge.
Whether it’s Cory’s failed leadership or a general changing of the landscape that has left UBA in a precarious position is unknown. It’s likely a combination of both. Advertisers are dwindling, support is falling, and employees are unhappy, feeling overworked, underpaid, and underappreciated. Will this Hail Mary plan work? Does Paul have genuine intentions for the company, and will an acquisition raise eyebrows about journalistic integrity? As is usually the case, things don’t go smoothly for Cory, particularly when Alex discovers what’s going on and blows up his deal with Paul. When she discovers how bad things really are, however, she tracks down Paul and uses her charms to convince him to come back to the table. It works, and the pair eventually strike up a romance in the process, which throws a whole new wrench into the mess.
A delicate balance Apple TV+ As the dance with Paul continues, The Morning Show touches on the delicate tightrope the staff must walk when their job is to present news, even if it conflicts with their own emotions and personal obligations. Mia (Karen Pittman), for example, is faced with a seemingly impossible decision: run photos that could get her photographer ex-boyfriend killed before he’s able to get to safety or wait and risk not getting the exclusive.
Stella (Greta Lee) is offered the new CEO position behind Cory’s back and battles with whether to tell her current boss what’s going on or accept the offer and throw him under the bus. What’s more, she has an unsavory history with Paul that makes her skeptical anyway. Meanwhile, a scene where she’s faced with awful, misogynist acts from corporate advertisers that UBA needs to secure in order to survive leaves her (and viewers) with an uneasy feeling.
Apple TV+ The there’s Bradley Jackson (Reese Witherspoon), who, it’s revealed in a flashback, was covering news of the Capital riots when she spotted her brother, Hal (Joe Tippett), as one of the rioters. She swiftly deleted the footage of him and lied to the FBI about it, a fact Cory learned, then reluctantly helped her cover up.
Twisting the knife further is that Hal is working on a clean slate and wants to confess. Bradley is concerned about how this would implicate her and blow up the life he has finally begun to build for himself. He is doing well, despite the tragic death of their mother (from COVID). He’s married with a baby, and things are finally looking up.
Apple TV+ Bradley’s pleading won’t matter anyway when Laura (Julianna Margulies) later discovers what happened. She’s disgusted by Bradley’s choice to throw her journalistic integrity out the window to protect her brother and his heinous actions. Laura reluctantly decides to keep quiet, but also ends their resurrected romance.
Meanwhile, Alex and Paul are growing closer, and he convinces her to start her own thing once the acquisition is finalized. Why? He plans to sell off UBA assets, effectively dissolving the network. With rose-colored glasses from the fast-tracked romance (that has caused further drama for the network), Alex decides she’s all-in. She doesn’t care about Cory and she plans to take the hard-working staff with her anyway and pay them what they deserve. She can do it on her own. Naturally, the decision doesn’t go over well when Cory finds out not only what Alex is going to do, but Paul’s ultimate plan as well.
Everything comes to a head Apple TV+ With the takeover looming, Cory is in scramble mode once again. He has help from Bradley and Stella, both of whom are looking into Paul and his company to find something — anything — that could prevent the deal from going through. Stella, it’s earlier revealed, was a young coder under Paul’s Silicon Valley incubator who fell into a deep depression when he purchased her code for a steal and made billions from it. Her former best friend. Kate (Natalie Morales), who used to work for Paul and was recently fired from his company. Hyperion, knows something bad is going on, but she had signed an NDA and is afraid to talk. Eventually, however, as Bradley notes, someone will.
Paul knows about their digging, however, and blackmails Bradley with knowledge of Hal and the Capital. He also plants a fake news story about Cory being a predator, using a photo of him carrying an intoxicated Bradley back to her hotel room to twist the narrative. He’s evil, Bradley believes, and she wishes Alex would see it. How did he know about Hal anyway? Bradley is convinced Paul has been surveilling her since he discovered she was trying to find dirt on him.
Despite Alex’s support of Paul, she listens to Bradley, and pulls a clever test in hopes of proving her wrong. She sends a text message to Bradley with a specific piece of incorrect information that Paul later quotes, all but confirming that Bradley was right. Reeling from the discovery, Alex goes into her usual save the day mode.
Apple TV+ At the board meeting, before the deal is finalized, Alex presents members with an alternate plan, much to Paul’s shock. With the help of Laura, she met with the CEO of partner network YDA and proposed a merger. They would share resources, staff, advertising dollars, even shows. It would mean layoffs and changes, but UBA would survive. Despite the very last minute nature of the plan, the board has a fiduciary responsibility to look at any offer equal to or greater than Paul’s, and they do.
As they deliberate, Alex leads an angered Paul to a room where Stella and Kate confront him about the unsafe conditions of his rocket, his actions to hide it, and the fact that Kate has proof. He must either reveal the truth to NASA or they’ll go public with the news. The billionaire loses and leaves with his tail between his legs. That’s not, however, before showing up at Alex’s apartment to express his regret and uncertainty for the future of his company. He might have genuinely fallen for Alex, but he’s the exact type of man of which she needs to steer clear.
How The Morning Show season 2 ends Erin Simkin / Apple TV+ In the aftermath of the events, UBA is thriving, though there are still a lot of decisions that need to be ironed out. Stella is gearing up to position herself for the CEO job now that Cory is likely being pushed out and she can feel like she earned it versus being silenced with it. The fourth estate survives to see another day.
Cory and Bradley give statements about their relationship to clear Cory’s name, and Bradley tells the truth. She never feared Cory, nor felt he was grooming her. She does reveal he told her he loved her, but quickly follows this up with the fact that he saw her for who she was, and that’s the only thing she feared. When she tells Cory she’ll miss him, the typically stoic, smiling CEO tears up, trying his best to hide it. He’s later seen standing in a crowd, lost and dejected. What’s next for Cory? Apple TV+ Bradley, meanwhile, heads with Alex to a local FBI office, where she meets Hal. They are going to confess, which likely won’t bode well for either of them. With several offenses committed, it’s difficult to imagine that either of them will be let off with a simple slap on the wrist. But fans will have to wait until next season to find out.
Despite the seemingly fitting ending, The Morning Show has been renewed for a fourth season.
Stream The Morning Show on Apple TV+.
Editors' Recommendations Thanksgiving’s ending, explained 3 TV shows on Tubi you should watch in November The Marvels’ ending, explained 3 underrated shows on Prime Video you need to watch in November The Walking Dead: Daryl Dixon ending, explained Apple Apple TV Entertainment In a volatile streaming economy, FAST services continue to rise in popularity. These subscriptions are free to use. The only catch is ads are featured with each program. However, most major streaming services offer ad-supported tiers. At least FAST doesn't cost a cent to use. One of the best FAST systems is Tubi, a service that includes over 50,000 movies and shows.
There are plenty of popular and underrated movies on Tubi in many genres. The same goes for TV shows. For October, we selected three TV shows you should watch on Tubi: a psychological horror-thriller, a Roman Empire series, and a reality cooking competition.
Hannibal (2013-2015) Entertainment Warning: This article contains spoilers for The Fall of the House of Usher (2023).
The first episode of Netflix's The Fall of the House of Usher sets up a few mysteries that the series doesn’t solve until its eighth and final installment. The first is, of course, why Verna (Carla Gugino) even chose to orchestrate the deaths of all of the Usher children. It’s also unclear initially why Lenore (Kyliegh Curran) is constantly texting her grandfather, Roderick (Bruce Greenwood), during his conversation with C. Auguste Dupin (Carl Lumbly). Lastly, there’s the nature of the mysterious “confession” that Roderick has promised Dupin. After all, what could a man so blatantly unscrupulous possibly have to confess? How The Fall of the House of Usher sets up its big finale The Fall of the House of Usher’s finale, fortunately, answers all of these questions. Early on, the episode flashes back in time to finally reveal what happened the night that Roderick and his sister, Madeline (played in her youth by Willa Fitzgerald), first crossed paths with Verna. As anyone who has read Edgar Allan Poe’s The Cask of Amontillado may have guessed, it's revealed that the two used Fortunato Pharmaceuticals’ 1980 New Year’s Eve party as a way to lure Roderick’s boss, Rufus Griswold (Michael Trucco), into the company’s basement. The two then drugged Rufus and sealed him alive behind a brick wall in order to complete their takeover of Fortunato. (The twinkling Roderick has heard throughout the series and the jester that’s haunted him are both callbacks to the costume Rufus was wearing the night he was killed.) Entertainment Every month, you hear about some of the best new shows to stream on all the top streaming services. For October, for example, this includes shows like the second season of Loki on Disney+ and Apple TV+ original series Lessons in Chemistry. But there are plenty of other great shows flying under the radar, not only this month but every month.
In some cases, the shows surprise by moving into the respective streaming service’s top 10 list as they are discovered by more and more viewers. In other cases, it’s a much slower build until people realize this show is worth watching: consider Suits, which aired on USA Network and ended in 2019 but is finding a second life now through Netflix. So, what new shows might fall into a similar category this month? We have rounded up three hidden streaming TV show gems to watch this month that you might not otherwise have considered.
Gen V Gen V – Official Redband Trailer | Prime Video Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
