Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix F1 Live Stream Stranger Things Season 5 Best New Movies Most Popular Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney+ UFC Live Stream Best Movies on Disney+ Home Entertainment Guides The Walking Dead: Daryl Dixon ending, explained By Christine Persaud Close The Walking Dead: Daryl Dixon is the latest in a flurry of spin-offs of The Walking Dead , expanding the franchise into new areas previously unexplored. This one focuses on fan-favorite character Daryl Dixon (Norman Reedus), one of the few who didn’t exist in the comic books but was created solely for the show. He mysteriously ends up in Paris, providing an entirely new setting and a new primary language for the series (don’t worry, there are subtitles) along with lots of F-bombs (no language restrictions on this show!) and a Last of Us -like journey.
Early encounters in France The people they meet How Daryl Dixon ends A final surprise How did he get there, what happened, and what’s in store for the already confirmed second season? With a massive reveal in the end, there’s lots to love, and look forward to, about The Walking Dead: Daryl Dixon.
Early encounters in France AMC Networks The story begins with Daryl washing up ashore in France. It’s later revealed that in exchanging work (hoarding walkers for testing) for fuel for his motorcycle, Daryl got into a fight with a group of ruffians he accused of killing a timid, innocent young man. He was locked up and left for dead, but Daryl isn’t one to sit idly by. He and his cellmate hatched a plan to escape, take down the ship workers, and hop on a boat to safety. During the melee, however, the other man was gobbled up by walkers while Daryl fell overboard, where he somehow swam to safety. By then, he had already crossed international waters.
The Hunger Games: The Ballad of Songbirds & Snakes’ ending, explained Upload season 3’s ending, explained 5 Walking Dead characters who deserve their own spinoff He comes across a nice young woman and an elderly man, but they are attacked by angry military men. Once again, luck is on Daryl’s side and he is saved by a nun named Isabelle (Clemence Poesy). She nurses him back to health and reveals what she wants from him: there’s a young boy named Laurent (Louis Puech Scigliuzzi) living at the convent who she believes to be the Messiah. It’s later revealed that he’s her nephew: her sister died and turned just as Laurent was being born, which she believes makes him a miracle baby, destined to save the world. She wants to get him to a safe commune known as The Nest where he can do God’s work and prepare for the new world.
AMC Networks Daryl is not interested in helping, though. True to his style, he wants no attachments. He just wants to get back home (before he can inevitably leave again). But when uniformed men who work for the woman in charge of the ship are after Daryl and attack the convent, leading to the deaths of many, he feels responsible. He’ll help her with this one task, but then he’s leaving.
The people they meet AMC Networks As with any Walking Dead series, the protagonists encounter numerous people on their journey. From a preschool full of children miraculously surviving on their own to a musical conductor gone mad (using walkers as his band of merry instrumentalists), none provide much help. But they do give Daryl a chance to try out his new weapon of choice, a chain mace, and bring Daryl face-to-face with another American much like the man he used to be. “I’m not your brother,” Daryl growls when the racist, ignorant man pleads with him to let him get back to his family he doesn’t realize is likely already long gone.
They finally find useful allies with a group of Isabelle’s network in Paris. Somehow, they end up in an underground bar pulled right from the ‘60s, complete with jazz singers, burlesque performers, drinks flowing, and ample food. To Isabelle’s surprise, the place is led by Quinn (Adam Nagaitis), Isabelle’s former friend/lover she thought had long died. It turns out, he’s also Laurent’s biological father, Isabelle learns.
But Quinn is less interested in Laurent and more interested in getting Isabelle back. This leads the former thief and party girl turned nun (yes, there’s more than meets the eye to Isabelle, one of the most compelling characters on the show) to make a difficult decision: she asks Daryl to take Laurent to The Nest on his own. She needs to take care of some unfinished business. If she doesn’t, she knows Quinn will be relentless in his pursuit.
How Daryl Dixon ends AMC Networks Fans see a softened Daryl as he becomes a father figure to Laurent and opens up to the boat’s captain as they set out to The Nest about everything from his relationship with (or rather lack, thereof) God and his troubled past. Fans see a vulnerable Daryl when he opens up to Isabelle about how his grandfather fought in the war in France where he died, thus abandoning his father. Daryl believes this to be partially the reason his own father was absent for much of his life. It’s the kind of character development fans had been itching to see for so long on The Walking Dead.
Tragic circumstances, however, lead to Daryl’s capture where he’s faced with an all-too-familiar scenario: he’s placed in a cage like a feral animal, forced to fight electrically enhanced walkers for sport while citizens look on. They’re no match for the fierce fighter, however, which leads to a second attempt: chain him to Quinn, also captured, turn down the lights, and let them duke it out with the walkers, one another, or both.
AMC Networks The intensity rises in this scene, even though fans know there’s no way Daryl will die. Quinn, however, is bitten and while they both survive, he sacrifices himself so Daryl can escape, making sure Daryl will tell Isabelle of his final selfless act. Quinn’s reanimated body later attacks Isabelle, leaving Laurent to end his father’s life to save his aunt. “I know it wasn’t him in there,” says the soft-spoken Laurent, “and God will forgive me.” They finally make it to The Nest, which, it turns out, is Mont-Saint-Michel, a tidal island and mainland commune in Normandy. It’s run by an American who moved to Paris in the ‘90s. Daryl looks and feels right at home, training residents to fight, goofing around with Laurent, and even learning a bit of French: “Enchante” he says smiling and raising his glass during dinner. Daryl is becoming a changed man, but he still has that nagging feeling that something is missing. He needs to go home.
AMC Networks Daryl says his goodbyes, though no one wants him to leave. He sets out on a boat they have arranged to help him get home. Before reaching the shore (and fighting off more walkers), he comes across a graveyard of American soldiers. Daryl frantically searches through the tombstones until he finds his grandfather’s, shedding a tear as he remembers his past life and recognizes the sacrifice his grandfather made. Just as he’s approaching the shore, however, Laurent calls out from atop a hill. The boy has secretly followed Daryl, likely hoping he can convince his new friend to stay. Daryl’s decision is not revealed.
A final surprise Jace Downs / AMC Networks What makes Daryl Dixon worth the wait is the final scene before the credits roll. A bearded man is zooming down the road on a motorcycle, a car buzzing behind. He stops, shoots the car’s tire, and raises a gun, threatening the driver to reveal themself. Out emerges a short-haired Carol (Melissa McBride), hands up revealing that she just wants to find her friend. Gasp! Yes, McBride is officially joining the show for the already confirmed season 2. The man is riding Daryl’s bike and she wants to know where he got it.
Carol swiftly gains control, knocking him out and stuffing him into the trunk. She holds his gun to the man’s head, asking him to reveal where he got the bike. If he’s lying, she won’t return to let him out. Don’t mess with Carol.
A sign shows that she’s in Maine, the last place Daryl told her he was when he was able to radio home before arriving in France. Carol is more than 3,200 miles away from Daryl’s last known location, but it’s completely doable that she might follow his trail all the way to the Bastille of the sea; that is, if he decided to go back there.
The Walking Dead: Daryl Dixon has been renewed for a second season.
Editors' Recommendations Thanksgiving’s ending, explained The Marvels’ ending, explained The Morning Show season 3 ending, explained The Fall of the House of Usher’s ending, explained Only Murders in the Building season 3 ending, explained Entertainment Warning: This article contains spoilers for The Creator (2023).
Early in The Creator, its hero, Joshua (John David Washington), is assigned by his military superiors to track down and kill the mysterious figure known as “Nimata,” the creator of a new AI weapon that's supposedly capable of ending the war between the anti-AI U.S. and the robotic and human civilians of New Asia. It’s during this mission that Joshua crosses paths with the weapon in question, an AI child named Alphie (Madeleine Yuna Voyles), who has the power to remotely shut down any technological devices in close proximity to her.
Entertainment Warning: This article contains spoilers for A Haunting in Venice (2023).
Are ghosts real? That question is at the center of one of the most anticipated movies of the season, A Haunting in Venice, Kenneth Branagh’s latest outing Hercule Poirot mystery. Loosely based on Agatha Christie’s Hallowe'en Party, the film spends most of its time at a Venetian palazzo one rain-soaked Halloween night. Summoned there by his friend and Christie-esque crime writer, Ariadne Oliver (Tina Fey), Branagh’s retired Poirot finds himself attending a seance run by the mischievous Joyce Reynolds (Everything Everywhere All at Once's Michelle Yeoh) at the behest of the palazzo’s owner, Rowena Drake (Kelly Reilly), a singer who has been mourning the tragic death of her daughter, Alicia (Rowan Robinson), for over a year.
Entertainment Warning: This article contains major spoilers for The Nun 2 (2023).
The Nun 2 begins four years after the events of its predecessor. When it picks back up with Sister Irene (Taissa Farmiga), she’s taken to living a peaceful life in a countryside convent. Her peace is disrupted by the return of her former, thought-to-be-vanquished demonic foe, Valak (Bonnie Aarons), whose recent killing spree through Western Europe has caught the attention of the Catholic Church.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
