Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix F1 Live Stream Stranger Things Season 5 Best New Movies Most Popular Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney+ UFC Live Stream Best Movies on Disney+ Home Entertainment Guides Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Upload season 3’s ending, explained By Christine Persaud Close Amazon Prime Video original series Upload could not have come at a better time. As artificial intelligence (AI) technology, robots, virtual reality, and other high-tech innovations dominate the conversation in real life, Upload provides an interesting, albeit parodied version of what the future could look like, not just for the living, but for the dead as well.
Living in the real world Everyone else’s stories Running from upload failure How Upload season 3 ends When the second season ended, Nathan (Robbie Amell) managed to move his consciousness from the Lakeview digital afterlife into a clone body to navigate the real world. The reason? To investigate details about his death, which he now knows was at the hands of deceased (and uploaded) billionaire David Choak (William B. Davis). The third season of the Amazon Prime Video original series picks up right where fans left off.
Living in the real world Liane Hentscher / Prime Video Things come full circle as Nathan is trying to adjust to the intense smells and sounds that he was away from for so long. His absence in Lakeview is handled by his eager new angel Tinsley (Mackenzie Cardwell), who creates a clone version of him from a month prior. Ingrid (Allegra Edwards) is still making frequent VR visits to Lakeview and sees this as the perfect opportunity to pounce. This past version of Nathan is still supposedly in love with her and has not yet fallen as deeply for Nora (Andy Allo).
Hundreds of classic Doctor Who episodes are now streaming on Tubi for free 7 best sci-fi movie actors The best new shows to stream on Netflix, Hulu, Max (HBO), and more Real Nathan, however, can’t be bothered with what’s going on there because he and his now official girlfriend, Nora, have work to do. Together with Ivan (Josh Banday) and Matteo (Paulo Costanzo), they plan to get to the bottom of what happened. The ultimate goal is to work with the Ludds to take down Freeyond before more people are hurt and manipulated. It’s too late, though, as Freeyond convinces thousands of people to upload for free, only to kill them one by one, with no plans to upload them anywhere. It’s all a sick plan to eliminate 10,000 voters.
Liane Hentscher / Prime Video Nathan and Nora manage to stop the process partway through, though Matteo is collateral damage, as is Detective Sato (Hiro Kanawaga) who, it turns out, was a bad guy all along. Desperate to do right by the people they couldn’t save, Nathan and Nora grab the hard drives of all the uploads and make it their mission to deliver them to the families of the deceased.
They meet some interesting people along the way and start to learn about one another’s quirks. But in the back of their minds, the worry about Nathan’s health looms. The longest cloned person lasted a month before their head exploded. Nathan keeps getting nosebleeds, and the pair is convinced he’s on borrowed time. They need to hurry.
Everyone else’s stories Liane Hentscher / Prime Video Meanwhile, everyone else is up to their own antics. Reeling from the loss of his best friend, Luke (Kevin Bigley) falls into a state of depression, seeking out companionship anywhere he can find it. When he learns the government will no longer be funding veterans at Lakeview, he takes a trip to the Grey Market and enlists in a clandestine phone sales job to make extra dough that gets him kidnapped for a short period of time.
Aleesha (Zainab Johnson) is there for Luke when she can be, but she’s busy with her powerful new position as teacher for the AI bots (Owen Daniels), trying to help them learn about human behavior. She eventually works with AIs sent into the real world as part of a secret Horizen experiment. As she rises up the ranks, Aleesha meets Karina (Jeanine Mason), a corporate boss at Horizen with whom she becomes romantically involved. Soon, however, clues suggest that Karina might not be an innocent bystander in the underhanded activities going on.
Liane Hentscher / Prime Video More is revealed about Choak and his dealings with other corporate heads, including Ingrid’s father. They’re all in it together, determined to prevent Nathan’s free afterlife concept from ever seeing the light of day and threatening their billion-dollar business. Choak eventually goes missing, however, when his angered angel Ivan steals his hard drive. What will Nathan do once/if he ever gets a hold of the hard drive of the man responsible for his death? That’s a question for another day.
Liane Hentscher / Prime Video What about Ingrid? She’s still up to her usual antics. She deceives the clone Nathan, who at first isn’t aware that he’s a clone, desperate to keep him in her life. In the real world, her family has completely cut her off and she has to get an actual job in (gasp) retail to make ends meet.
As she pursues her relationship with clone Nathan at Lakeview, she becomes jealous at how the real Nathan’s relationship with Nora has blossomed. She’ll stop at nothing, it seems, to keep her man, whether it’s the real version or the clone one. The two Nathans do, it should be noted, eventually meet and try hilariously to one-up one another.
Running from upload failure Liane Hentscher / Prime Video Terrified that Nathan’s days are numbered, he and Nora visit Dr. “Download” Kapoor (Ravi Kapoor), the doctor who was fired following the first botched clone project. He doesn’t have answers, but gives Nathan pills. He’s clearly hiding something.
Not sure what to do next, the couple find an ally in Nathan’s old college flame, Holden (Kristine Cofsky), who happens to be a lawyer. She decides to take on a case to seek damages for the families of the recently uploaded deceased. She believes Nora could be the key to helping her win, and Nora thinks this could be the move to finally take Horizen down.
Things are looking up. Nora is offered a job with the firm, and a promise to put her through law school. But just as the key witness arrives to meet with the lawyers ahead of the trial (it turns out it’s Dr. Kapoor himself!), he is killed by a mealbot carrying explosives. Why was he going to be the smoking gun? Turns out he was paid to purposely blow up the first clone subject to protect the afterlife business. This, combined with the discovery that the pills Dr. Kapoor gave Nathan were nothing more than Gas X, confirms amazing news: Nathan’s head isn’t going to blow up. Clones can survive just fine among humans, and this could effectively render the digital afterlife business useless.
Liane Hentscher / Prime Video Despite Nora convincing Ingrid to be the new key witness, given what she knows about her father’s involvement, the trial isn’t going well. Back at Lakeview, Aleesha and Luke set up an elaborate plan to get into Karina’s computer and see what they can find. It’s better than they could ever have imagined when they uncover files with seriously damaging information about Horizen. The contents aren’t revealed, but it’s a terabyte’s worth of data that Aleesha swiftly uploads to Nora, and it helps them reach an immediate settlement in the case. But there’s a catch: the records remain sealed. This means Horizen will see a small dent in its bottom line as the company pays millions to the surviving families. Beyond that, it’s business as usual.
Nora and Nathan leave the courthouse upset about the outcome of the case, but excited for their future. Just then, Nathan, who can’t provide valid ID, is taken into custody by Horizen security.
How Upload season 3 ends Liane Hentscher / Prime Video Fast-forward for an unknown duration of time and Nora, Ingrid, and Nathan’s mother are frantically trying to figure out what to do. This is juxtaposed with the scene of an attack on Lakeview, where the supposedly many duplicate uploads (Nathan wasn’t the only one) are being killed. There’s also soothing footage from a new Horizen commercial, launched in the aftermath of the trial settlement. The company is working to build back trust.
The ad presents a lavish-looking afterlife community with new options, including Workload, where people continue to spend their days in the afterlife working mundane clerical jobs. The company has also changed its name to Betta, humorously noting that Horizen will remain a company under the Betta umbrella, used as a container for lawsuits. It’s clear, however, that there’s nothing “betta” about this place.
Liane Hentscher / Prime Video The story pivots back to the panicked group as they receive an incoming call from Nathan. Where has he been all this time? Is he OK? He reveals that the other Nathan was destroyed. But wait, Nora wants to know: Which Nathan is he ? The episode end, leaving it unclear if it was the real Nathan or the duplicate Nathan to whom she was speaking.
Upload has not officially been renewed for a fourth season, but the cliffhanger ending suggests there’s hope for the story to continue.
Stream all three seasons of Upload on Prime Video.
Editors' Recommendations Thanksgiving’s ending, explained 3 dramas on Prime Video you need to watch in November 3 action movies on Prime Video you need to watch in November The best movies on Amazon Prime Video (November 2023) 3 sci-fi movies on Tubi you need to watch in November Amazon Amazon Prime Video Streaming Services Entertainment Sci-fi movies are available in abundance. There are some great classic sci-fi movies you can watch on streaming services like Prime Video. But there are also compelling new ones that might be worth checking out.
If you’re looking for something relatively new and off the beaten path, three sci-fi movies on Prime Video you need to watch in November include one that debuted just this year, a popcorn thriller disaster sci-fi flick, and a totally under-the-radar movie from an independent filmmaker.
I’ll Be Watching (2023) I'LL BE WATCHING | Official HD Trailer (2023) | THRILLER | Film Threat Trailers Entertainment By the 1980s, science fiction had become a much less niche proposition. Several major movies had proven that it was possible to make popular versions of these stories, and TV followed suit shortly after that.
While there were several immensely popular sci-fi series airing during this period, a few also fell under the radar. These three shows are perfect examples of why sci-fi storytelling became much more popular in the 1980s across a wide array of different formats, whether it was in the U.S. or the U.K.
Red Dwarf (1988) Red Dwarf - Series 1 Trailer Entertainment There’s so much going on during the holiday season, from Thanksgiving prep to buying holiday gifts and gearing up for the end of the year. So, when you have time to sit, relax, and watch a movie, you probably want something lighthearted and fun. That’s where comedies come in.
There are three comedies on Prime Video you need to watch in November that you probably didn’t even know were available as part of your standard Amazon Prime subscription. Two of them are classics from the '80s and '90s that are must-watches if you've never seen them -- and even if you have. The third is a stand-up special from one of the best comedians of his generation.
Mars Attacks! (1996) Mars Attacks! (1996) Official Trailer #1 - Jack Nicholson, Pierce Brosnan Sci-Fi Comedy Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
