Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix F1 Live Stream Stranger Things Season 5 Best New Movies Most Popular Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney+ UFC Live Stream Best Movies on Disney+ Home Entertainment Features 10 box office bombs that are now cult classics By Keith Langston Close Some movies premiere to massive box office success, becoming global sensations or even massive franchises. Other movies, however, aren’t fully appreciated until years (sometimes decades) later. In some cases, audiences change. In others, a movie became more relevant as time went by. And in far too many cases, the film was great to begin with, but it didn’t align with what critics and the Hollywood machine wanted, forcing the movie into obscurity until it was later rediscovered in the rental and streaming markets.
The Craft (1996) The Rocky Horror Picture Show (1975) Idiocracy (2006) Office Space (1999) The Thing (1982) Grindhouse (2007) Sordid Lives (2000) Donnie Darko (2001) Event Horizon (1997) Clerks (1994) Regardless of why they were initially overlooked, cult classics luckily found the audiences they deserved and were spared from dissipating into the abyss of Hollywood history. From a midnight movie mainstay about sweet Transylvanian transvestites to an all-too-real satire about white-collar drudgery, these movies started as box office flops but became beloved cult classics.
The Craft (1996) Columbia Pictures The Craft wasn’t necessarily the biggest box office bomb ever, but its box office gross of $24.5 million is nothing compared to the other ’90s horror movies of its day. For comparison, that same year Scream raked in over $173 million and the following year I Know What You Did Last Summer brought in over $125 million.
You probably didn’t watch the most underrated crime thriller of the 2010s. Here’s why you should see it now This horror remake shocked audiences 5 years ago. Here’s why you should watch it this Halloween What’s new on Shudder in November 2023 The Craft was just a so-so hit that luckily earned more than its budget…but only by about $10 million. It wasn’t until The Craft began airing on TV and hit the rental market that the movie started gaining a following. The story, about four teenage witches in Los Angeles who become immeasurably more powerful when they combine their energy, is technically an R-rated horror film, but instead feels more like Clueless with witchcraft. It’s fun, it’s campy, and it’s oh-so-totally ’90s. In the years since its release, it’s gained a massive queer following, and actress Robin Tunney, who plays Sarah in the film, even says that Natalie Portman has admitted the movie is her favorite guilty pleasure.
The Rocky Horror Picture Show (1975) 20th Century Fox When The Rocky Horror Picture Show premiered in 1975, it was an absolute failure. Critically panned and a box office bust, the movie was a disaster. Most people didn’t get it and many others found its themes of queerness, cross-dressing, and sexual promiscuity to be unholy and disgusting.
Robert Ebert’s original review of the film said “ The Rocky Horror Picture Show would be more fun, I suspect, if it weren’t a picture show. It belongs on a stage, with the performers and audience joining in a collective send-up.” Little did he know that’s exactly what would happen. Word of mouth spread and people (generally outcasts) came to watch the film because, for the first time in Hollywood history, they were the ones on-screen.
Rocky Horror celebrated the weird, the wild, the wrong, and the wondrous.
The film has become the longest-running theatrical release in history and, to date, has never ended its original run. It has continuously been played every week in some theater around the world and in many major cities it’s a monthly (or even weekly) affair. It’s since gone on to gross hundreds of millions of dollars and spawned a sequel, a TV remake , and it even got its own special episode on Glee.
Idiocracy (2006) 20th Century Fox Mike Judge’s Idiocracy was a polarizing film. The movie was set in the future, where radicalization, nationalism, militarism, capitalism, consumerism, and commercialization have ruined society, turning the population into a blubbering race of morons.
In recent years, as more and more Americans willingly fell victim to fake news, conspiracy theories, and bigotry, the movie has become depressingly prescient and has gained tons of attention because of it. In 2021 The Guardian even said, “This disturbingly hilarious film is as horrifying as 1984 or Brave New World , but takes a different route – emphasizing the dangers of collective incompetence rather than oppressiveness of the state.” Making the movie even more unintentionally meta is the fact that its poor initial box office earnings of just $495,000 is directly due to the politics of capitalism that Idiocracy mocked. 20th Century Fox, the film’s distributor, was worried the movie would offend people and upset corporate Hollywood, so it stymied Idiocracy from the start, only releasing it in a few theaters. But in the rental and DVD market, the movie exploded in popularity and has become more and more relevant since its release.
Office Space (1999) 20th Century Studios Idiocracy wasn’t Mike Judge’s first foray into cult classic territory. A few years beforehand, he made the movie Office Space about an overworked and underappreciated white-collar programmer in Texas who never stands up for himself. The movie was a commercial failure, earning only $10.8 million at the box office.
But the following year it began airing regularly on Comedy Central and then caught fire in the rental market. Suddenly, every overworked employee in America could relate to the movie. Ron Livingston, the film’s star, told Variety in a 2019 retrospective, “People come and tell me that the movie changed their life. It’s like after seeing the movie, it gave them the confidence to get out of whatever it was they were doing that was making them miserable and move on to something else.” The movie also created real-world changes as well. An ongoing joke in the movie was the uniform of waitress Joanna (Jennifer Aniston). She worked at a restaurant that was blatantly making fun of TGI Fridays. After the movie, Friday’s employees began hearing so many jokes about their “flair” that the company actually changed the dress code , removing all the pins and lapels the servers previously had to wear.
Office Space even got Swingline to make a red stapler because, after the film, tons of people began asking the company for a red model — thanks to the character Milton, who guarded his treasured red stapler like Gollum holding onto his precious ring.
The Thing (1982) Universal Pictures This will come as a shock to many because 1982’s The Thing is now considered one of John Carpenter’s best movies and one of the greatest sci-fi horror films of all time. But, it wasn’t always viewed in such a positive light. In fact, during its initial release, the movie only made $19 million at the box office. Even for 1982, that’s an incredibly unimpressive number, especially considering that Carpenter was able to rake in $47 million from his ’78 masterpiece, Halloween.
 Critics at the time bashed the movie, with The New York Times calling it “foolish, depressing, [and] overproduced.” Luckily, in the decades since its premiere, audiences have come around and embraced the movie’s body horror and excellent ’80s-era practical effects (which actually make the movie scarier and totally gross). On top of its gory effects, the movie’s remote Antarctic location adds a sense of isolation and paranoia, making it a truly terrifying sci-fi classic. It’s an absolute must-watch for genre fans.
Grindhouse (2007) Dimension Films Despite receiving mostly positive reviews upon its initial premiere, Grindhouse massively underperformed at the box office. The movie was a throwback to the days of double features and consisted of two movies – Robert Rodriguez’s Planet Terror and Quentin Tarantino’s Death Proof – both broken apart by a few minutes of fake trailers for hilariously awful movies like Werewolf Women of the S.S.
and Hobo with a Shotgun.
But with a total runtime of over 3 hours, the movie was way too long for audiences to watch all at once, and many were confused by Grindhouse , Planet Terror , and Death Proof , not fully understanding if there would be one, two, or three movies and which was which. When speaking to The Guardian back in 2007, now-disgraced producer Harvey Weinstein said, “The audience didn’t get the idea that it was two movies for the price of one. I don’t understand the math, but I do want to accommodate the audience.” Luckily, the movies found better success in the rental market after they were sold and rented out as two separate DVDs. Plus, many of the fake trailers from the movie, like Machete , Hobo with a Shotgun , and Thanksgiving all became or will become actual movies, with Machete becoming so successful it even earned a sequel. For a box office flop, Grindhouse has created an impressive cinematic legacy.
Sordid Lives (2000) Daly-Harris Productions It’s a cult classic that’s so cult many people have probably never heard of it but it’s the ultimate #iykyk movie. Released in 2000 and based on Del Shores’ play of the same name, Sordid Lives centered on a colorful, trashy Texas family who must prepare for the funeral of their elderly matriarch who had quite a few skeletons in her closet.
The movie was an instant queer classic and starred tons of notable gay icons like Olivia Newton-John, Leslie Jordan, and Delta Burke, among others. In an interview with IndieWire , creator Del Shores recalled the film’s surprising success within the LGBTQ community, saying, “It played theatrically for about a year in Dallas, Fort Lauderdale, Laguna Beach, and Provincetown, and it still holds the record forthe longest running film in the history of Palm Springs – 96 weeks.” Despite only having a box office gross of $1.1 million, the movie struck a chord in the communities where it was shown and became a hit. In 2008 the movie got its own series adaptation on Logo called Sordid Lives: The Series.
 Joining Jordan and Newton-John in the cast were even more gay favorites like Rue McClanahan and Caroline Rhea.
In 2017 the movie then received a sequel, A Very Sordid Wedding and even more celebrities joined the cast like Whoopi Goldberg and Alec Mapa. Despite never achieving widespread acclaim or massive box office success, Sordid Lives has a legacy that keeps on living thanks to its devout cult following.
Donnie Darko (2001) Pandora Cinema Earning only $7.5 million at the box office, Donnie Darko didn’t find true success until a few years later. Audiences needed time to sit with the movie and absorb its nonsensical plot before they could properly embrace and enjoy it. It didn’t help that the movie involved a plane crash and was released just a few weeks after 9/11. In the film, Donnie Darko (Jake Gyllenhaal) suddenly finds himself walking in and out of a time disturbance, ultimately learning of his upcoming death.
The movie is weird and certainly has some plot holes, but its undeniably grim and haunting premise keeps you hooked. And thanks to ongoing midnight screenings and the rental market, the movie built momentum and for a period during the mid and late 2000s, it had become a bona fide hit, even getting ranked #2 on Empire ‘s list of the Best Indie Films Ever in 2012.
Event Horizon (1997) Paramount Pictures Event Horizon , the movie about a spaceship that accidentally jumps through a wormhole straight to Hell, has one of the most unbelievable histories ever, making it the ultimate underdog film. Upon release, the movie was despised. The film raked in a scrawny $27 million at the box office and received scathing reviews from critics like CNN , which said, “A lot of first-class actors wasted a few months of their lives working on this, so there must have been something interesting about the original script. Too bad that part didn’t make it into the film.” But, flash forward a decade, and the tides begin to change. After regularly airing on television and being available in the rental market, Event Horizon had started developing a growing fanbase who loved its dark, twisted sci-fi story. It even inspired the hit video game Dead Space, which got remade this year.
 Years later, the film would inspire another video game, Destiny 2’s Season of the Haunted.
In 2017, a full 20 years after the movie’s premiere, it was even written about in the high-brow literary journal The Paris Review.
 And within the last few years, Event Horizon has been dissected, critiqued, and praised in virtually every entertainment publication imaginable, from Variety to Entertainment Weekly, Collider, Nerdist, and even at Digital Trends.
 Think what you want about Event Horizon , but the movie has an enduring legacy and only seems to be getting even more popular with age.
Clerks (1994) Miramax Shot in black-and-white with a budget of just $27,500, Clerks became a surprise hit, earning over $3.1 million at the box office despite only screening in 50 cities. The movie was sort of a Seinfeld -style “show about nothing” and followed the rambling lives of a group of people in New Jersey, all anchored by a carry-out. The movie became so successful it received two sequels, Clerks II in 2006 and Clerks III in 2022.
But more importantly, Clerks introduced the world to Jay and Silent Bob. Not only has the duo starred in all three Clerks movies, but they’re also a staple in many of Kevin Smith’s other movies, like Chasing Amy , Mallrats , and Dogma.
 In 2001 the pair even got their own spin-off movie, Jay and Silent Bob Strike Back , which itself received various sequels throughout the years, including 2019’s Jay and Silent Bob Reboot.
 Considering the original Clerks film had a budget of under $28,000, it’s wildly impressive that its popularity created its own cinematic universe, dubbed the “View Askewniverse.” Editors' Recommendations Hundreds of classic Doctor Who episodes are now streaming on Tubi for free A new era begins in first Kingdom of the Planet of the Apes trailer Is Final Destination the best horror franchise we have right now? First look at Quantum Leap season 2 episode 3 as Ben Song meets a mysterious woman Foe director Garth Davis on making the most devastating sci-fi movie ever Features Entertainment Growing up in the '90s, Doctor Who wasn't really a thing. Following the sci-fi show's cancellation in 1989, there was a 16-year period – aside from a one-off television movie in 1996 that failed to resurge the series as a whole – where traveling through time and space in a little blue box was non-existent. And yet during this time, at the young age of six, I was first introduced to a mysterious man with a bouffant hairstyle, velvet jacket, and a thrill for adventure.
This was Jon Pertwee. The once-circus performer and Royal Navy member (who reported directly to Winston Churchill during the Second World War), before later turning to the world of acting, made his debut as the Time Lord in January 1970's Spearhead from Space. Taking on the Autons, life-sized plastic dummies animated by an alien Nestene Consciousness, it didn't take long for the 50-year-old to make his mark.
Pertwee's Doctor Who was the perfect hero to root for Death to the Daleks, a four-part adventure with Sarah Jane (played by the wonderful Elisabeth Sladen), is one of the earliest memories from my childhood. In many ways, it's a story indicative of the show's lasting charm. We have the Doctor's greatest foe in the Daleks, one of the most loved companions in Sarah Jane, and the terrifying Exxilons that contributed to the "hiding behind the sofa" phenomenon that scared children for decades. We even have the Root, a snake-like creature whose schlocky effects answer the question of what would happen if your Dyson hoover went rogue.
Entertainment Ghost in the Shell, released in 2017, has gone on to become one of Hollywood's most infamous cinematic remakes. Plagued by controversy and lackluster reviews, this Scarlett Johansson-led film grossed $169.8 million against a budget of $110 million, making it one of the biggest box-office disappointments in recent history.
There are always going to be comparisons between a remake and the original film, and while there have already been many scathing reviews about the 2017 remake, let's look at whether or not this 2017 movie really is as bad as people think.
The plot is more reflective than active Entertainment David Duchovny and Peter Boyle in the X-Files episode "Clyde Bruckman's Final Repose." Fox / Fox "I'm not smiling, I'm wincing." So says Clyde Bruckman (Peter Boyle), unhappily clairvoyant insurance salesman, in the beloved episode of The X-Files that bears his name. Smiling, wincing — a viewer might find themselves doing plenty of both across this miniature tragicomedy of death, mortality, and the achingly human tendency to dwell upon both. It's among the saddest and the funniest 44 minutes ever aired in prime time.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
