Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Netflix Original Movies Best Comedies on Netflix Best Netflix Original Series Best Anime on Netflix Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Fantasy Movies on Netflix Home Entertainment Guides Creature is Netflix’s most underrated horror series right now. Here’s why you should watch it By Blair Marnell Close Halloween isn’t for another week, but Netflix already has another treat for horror lovers.
Creature , the new Turkish horror miniseries, has premiered on the 10 most popular shows on Netflix.
 It stars Taner Ölmez as Ziya, an idealistic young doctor whose determination to defeat death results in the creation of his own Creature (Erkan Kolçak Köstendil).
A fresh coat of paint on a classic tale The dual performances of Erkan Kolçak Köstendil The Creature and his maker If you think that sounds like the plot of Mary Shelley’s famous novel, Frankenstein , then you’re not wrong. Çağan Irmak has put his own personal touches on the story that is at once familiar and different. And we’ve got three reasons why you should watch Creature this Halloween. We also have a viewing tip: Watch it in the original Turkish language with subtitles. The English dub isn’t as convincing as the native tongue from the original.
A fresh coat of paint on a classic tale Netflix Almost every incarnation of Frankenstein takes some liberties with the original story, but Creature takes more than most. In addition to changing the names of the major characters, the primary setting for the story is Istanbul in Turkey during the reign of the Ottoman Empire.
The 50 best movies on Netflix right now (November 2023) The best Black movies on Netflix right now The 10 most popular movies on Netflix right now That means more than just a new backdrop for the story. It’s an entirely different culture with its own beliefs about death, science, and beyond. Ziya is initially more altruistic than Victor Frankenstein was in the novel. In his mind, Ziya sees conquering death as his ultimate gift to mankind, and he truly believes that this will change the world for the better. But like Dr. Frankenstein, Ziya is so blinded by his ambition that he doesn’t realize he’s gone too far until it’s too late.
The dual performances of Erkan Kolçak Köstendil Netflix Because this story doesn’t play out exactly like Frankenstein , Erkan Kolçak Köstendil had the rare opportunity to play two roles in this incarnation. He portrays Ziya’s mentor, İhsan, the man who helped teach him that life doesn’t necessarily end with the grave. Unfortunately for Ihsan, his untimely death allows Ziya to resurrect him as the unnamed Creature.
The Creature proves to be a disappointment to his maker, and also a showcase for Köstendil to bring out the pathos of his character. The Creature is capable of more than just death or destruction, and he just wants to find the same community and love that humans have for each other. Unlike Frankenstein’s Monster in the book, the Creature actually gets a taste of having real love in his life. At least until fate cruelly snatches away his only chances for happiness.
The Creature and his maker Netflix At its core, Frankenstein is about the man and the monster, as both Victor and the Monster trade roles during the course of the story.
Creature follows the same trajectory with its tale of Ziya and his creation. Surprisingly, it doesn’t stray that far from the novel, although at times it seems to be taking more influences from the Frankenstein movies than the original book.
Regardless, the confrontation between Ziya and his Creature plays out in a satisfactory way. Without spoiling things, their final meeting mirrors the birth of the Creature. And while there are tragic elements, at least one member of this cast of characters gets to end the show in a happier place in his life.
Watch Creature on Netflix.
Editors' Recommendations 5 bad 2000s action movies that you still need to watch right now 5 best death game movies you should watch right now The 10 most popular TV shows on Netflix right now The best feel-good movies on Netflix right now The best comedies on Netflix right now Netflix Streaming Services Entertainment The best stand-up comedy on Netflix right now is both current with the times and as old as the genre itself. Pete Holmes and Beth Stelling are among the new additions to the streaming service -- the latter is definitely a comedian worth getting to know. Additionally, classic sets from the likes of Ali Wong, Dave Chappelle, John Mulaney, and more are available at the touch of a button.
With new movies and shows coming to Netflix all the time, the stand-up comedy selection is always growing. We've parsed through the details and pulled out the best stand-up comedy on Netflix right now.
Looking for something else? We've also rounded up the best movies on Netflix, the best movies on Hulu, the best movies on Amazon Prime, and the best movies on Disney+. For Netflix fans, check out the 10 most popular shows on Netflix right now.
Pete Holmes: I Am Not for Everyone (2023) new Entertainment Who's in the mood for an action film? Netflix has an impressive slate of action films that only improves with the addition of new films every month. New arrivals include Liam Neeson's Cold Pursuit, David Fincher's The Killer, and Adam Wingard's Godzilla vs. Kong.
This November, we curated a list of three action movies you need to watch on Netflix. Our action picks include one of the best war movies ever made, an underrated Clint Eastwood thriller, and Michael Bay at his finest.
Saving Private Ryan (1998) Entertainment Comedy is not the box office force that it once was, and a lot of comedies now skip theaters entirely before going direct to streaming. That's unfortunate because laughing in a crowded theater during a comedy can be a cathartic experience. And as far as we're concerned, the genre's best days are still in front of it because some of the best comedies from the last half-decade more than hold their own against classics from the '80s, '90s, and the 21st century.
When compiling this list of the five great comedies from the past five years, we stuck with a strict release window between 2018 and 2023 for every film from either theatrical or streaming. Surprisingly, none of the movies from 2020 or 2021 made the cut for us. But after giving each movie due consideration, we feel that these five films will be the ones that withstand the test of time.
No Hard Feelings (2023) Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
