Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix F1 Live Stream Stranger Things Season 5 Best New Movies Most Popular Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney+ UFC Live Stream Best Movies on Disney+ Home Entertainment Guides Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? 3 underrated horror sequels that deserve to be watched again By Jason Struss Close Horror is a genre dominated by sequels. If an original movie is even a moderate success, it will most likely get a sequel in an effort to cash in. Unfortunately, many of the sequels stink. For every Child’s Play , there’s a Child’s Play 2.
 You get the idea.
Halloween II (1981) Exorcist II: The Heretic (1977) A Nightmare on Elm Street Part 4: The Dream Master (1988) Not all sequels are bad, though. In fact, they can complement and even improve on the original. For some of the biggest franchises in horror, these three sequels helped expand their storytelling and stylistic possibilities. Underrated by critics and even some fans, Halloween II , A Nightmare on Elm Street 4 , and Exorcist II: The Heretic (yes, you read that last one right) are horror sequels that deserve another watch and more attention and love from their respective fan bases.
Halloween II (1981) Universal Halloween II unjustly got a lot of negativity when it was released, primarily for committing two unforgivable sins: it wasn’t the original Halloween and it transformed Michael Myers from a random Boogeyman to a killer with a motive straight out of a daytime soap opera (he’s out to get his long-lost sister). Time has been kind to the Rick Rosenthal-directed sequel, and even after 40 years and almost a dozen new entries, it’s probably still the best sequel in the Halloween franchise.
3 underrated shows on Hulu you need to watch in November 3 underrated sci-fi movies on Amazon Freevee you should watch in November 3 underrated movies on Peacock you need to watch in November What makes Halloween II so effective is that it dares to continue the night of terror that began in the first movie, following Scream Queen Jamie Lee Curtis as she recovers from being nearly killed. And it doesn’t get enough credit for expertly chronicling how the small town of Haddonfield slowly unravels as it tries to capture an uncatchable killer.
Halloween II ups the gore content, and while many critics sneered at this (both then and now), it’s actually quite effective. Whereas Halloween functions more as a thriller, Halloween II is unabashedly a slasher, and it still hasn’t been surpassed in how it marries shameless violence with genuinely creepy suspense.
Halloween II is streaming on Peacock.
Exorcist II: The Heretic (1977) Warner Bros.
Generally considered to be one of the worst movies of all time , Exorcist II: The Heretic isn’t entirely innocent of being kinda bad. When compared to the original Exorcist , which is still the best in the series , it’s a major comedown, with too much time spent focusing on a stone-faced Linda Blair under deep hypnosis. The plot doesn’t make much sense either, and the lead male star, Richard Burton, looks perpetually hungover, and almost sneers at the bad dialogue he has to spout throughout the movie.
And yet, there’s a strange beauty in Exorcist II , a weird energy that makes it wholly original and unlike any other movie ever made. That’s largely due to the director, John Boorman, and the director of photography, William A Fraker, who fill the screen with wild, sun-stained imagery that makes you believe in the divine. There’s a terror to this movie’s strange, sullied beauty, and it’s a sight to behold.
Exorcist II: The Heretic is streaming on Max.
A Nightmare on Elm Street Part 4: The Dream Master (1988) New Line Of all the Nightmare on Elm Street movies, Part 3: Dream Warriors is usually singled out as the best and most popular entry (with good reason), while Part 2: Freddy’s Revenge gets the lion’s share of critical reassessment for it’s barely hidden queer subtext (which is interesting, but doesn’t redeem what’s always been a lackluster horror sequel). My favorite Freddy movie has always been Part 4: The Dream Master , as it’s the best at showcasing what makes the Nightmare on Elm Street horror movies work so well to begin with: great female heroines (with Dream Master Alice kicking ass in this movie), a supporting cast you actually care about, off-the-wall humor (“Wanna suck face?”), and spectacular horror VFX.
Part 4 also gets props for bringing back the survivors from the last installment and brazenly killing them off one by one, thereby keeping the audience second-guessing as to what the hell is going to happen next. Plus, the kills in this movie are some of the best, with nerdy Shelia getting French kissed to death, horny Joey getting killed by a literal wet dream-turned-nightmare, and jock Debbie getting turned into a giant cockroach and getting squished by Freddy. Is it scary? Not really, but it is slightly demented, a little bit gross, and always inventive.
A Nightmare on Elm Street Part 4: The Dream Master is streaming on Max.
Editors' Recommendations This underrated 2023 horror movie on Netflix deserves more love. Here’s why you should watch it 3 underrated 1980s sci-fi TV shows you should watch in November 3 underrated movies on Max you need to watch in November 3 underrated movies on Prime Video you need to watch in November This action war movie is popular on Netflix. Here’s why you should watch it Entertainment Five Nights at Freddy's | Official Trailer 2 October is supposed to be the best time to watch a scary movie, but that doesn't necessarily mean it's always easy to find exactly what you're looking for. Sometimes, you check out the movies in theaters and then find yourself at a loss when it comes to sorting through your various subscriptions to find something similar.
Entertainment Spooky season is officially here, and that means lots of pumpkins, apples, candy, ghosts, bats, and other things that go bump in the night. There will be Halloween parties going on or you may be taking little ones trick-or-treating the night of Halloween. Regardless, there are plenty of spooks to go around! One of the best ways to celebrate Halloween is also by watching Halloween-themed movies. But typically those involve scary or horror movies, which not everyone is a fan of. If you want to watch a Halloween movie that’s a bit more tame and enjoyable for everyone, including little ones, here are some great options.
Entertainment Max, formerly known as HBO, has an impressive library of movies and shows that make it one of the best streaming services out there. The best movies on Max are a healthy mix offering everything a film aficionado could want, from classics produced during Hollywood’s Golden Age to modern superhero fare. October will see several great movies leaving the site, including the 1942 horror classic Cat People.
Directed by Jacques Tourneur, Cat People is among the most singular and striking horror pictures from the 1940s. The plot is surreal and often ridiculous, yet undeniably compelling. This underrated horror classic is daring, fascinating, and uncompromisingly unique, featuring a now-infamous performance from Simone Simon and a premise that walks a fine line between the riveting and the outright ridiculous. Movie lovers will probably have already seen it – some might consider it required viewing for anyone who considers themselves a cinephile. However, those who haven’t should absolutely give it a chance. So, if you’re looking for a spooky film to watch this Halloween season, why not try Cat People before it leaves Max on October 31? The plot Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
