Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Netflix Original Movies Best Comedies on Netflix Best Netflix Original Series Best Anime on Netflix Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Fantasy Movies on Netflix Home Entertainment Guides This 2019 horror film is one of Netflix’s most popular movies now. Here’s why you should watch it By Blair Marnell Close October tends to be the best time of the year to revisit horror movies, and Netflix is no exception. This month, the streamer has added director Tate Taylor’s 2019 horror flick, Ma , which has already become one of the top films on the most popular movies on Netflix.
Octavia Spencer’s terrifying performance Rooting for Ma Ma’s revenge Ma is not a typical horror story, and the lead character, played by Octavia Spencer, is not some random slasher villain. There’s a method to Ma’s madness, and it makes the film one of the most unique horror movies in years. But if you need more convincing, here are three reasons why you should watch Ma on Netflix.
Octavia Spencer’s terrifying performance Universal Pictures Octavia Spencer wanted something meatier than the normal characters she had been offered to play, and she got what she wanted in Sue Ann “Ma” Ellington. Spencer gets to play all kinds of sides of Ma throughout the film, including the overeager “friend” of the teenagers that she invites to party in her basement and a more outwardly motherly side as well.
The 50 best movies on Netflix right now (November 2023) The 10 most popular movies on Netflix right now 5 sci-fi movies on Netflix you need to watch in November But what makes the film really scary is the way that Spencer shows us that Ma is putting up a front. Her real persona is thirsty for vengeance and truly terrifying. Ma doesn’t have to go too far over the top to reach prime villainy. Spencer simply plays Ma’s actions as if they were the next logical step in her descent into total darkness.
Rooting for Ma Universal Pictures Unlike many horror villains, Ma depicts its title character as someone who has truly been wronged by her peers. And some of her plans for vengeance are more easily justified than others. Kyanna Simone Simpson has a brief appearance playing Ma as a high school student as viewers learn just how horribly she was treated and why she holds a grudge in the present.
After discovering what drives Ma, it’s kind of hard not to root for her when she directly goes after the people who hurt her, like Ben Hawkins (Luke Evans) and his girlfriend, Mercedes (Missi Pyle). It’s only when Ma targets the children of her tormentors that she really becomes a horror movie villain.
Ma’s revenge Universal Pictures Ma promised viewers that it was a horror movie, and the film delivers in its final act as she takes the group of teenagers that she lured into her house and punishes them for their own sins as well as those of their parents. Jigsaw (the killer from the Saw movies) would be proud, as some of the fates that befall these kids are really brutal.
Even the new girl in town, Maggie Thompson (Diana Silvers), isn’t immune from Ma’s quest for revenge simply because Maggie’s mother, Erica (Juliette Lewis), did nothing to stop Ma’s torment when they were teens. Everyone involved is going to have to pay for what they’ve done, and that’s a key reason why Ma is such an effective horror story.
Watch Ma on Netflix.
Editors' Recommendations 3 movies and TV shows like the hit Max series Julia you should watch right now The 10 most popular TV shows on Netflix right now 3 action movies on Netflix you need to watch in November 5 movies like Netflix’s The Killer you should watch right now This underrated 2023 horror movie on Netflix deserves more love. Here’s why you should watch it Netflix Streaming Services Entertainment Finding time for a family movie night is tough, which is why it's important to optimize those nights when you're all together by knowing the best family movies on Netflix ahead of time. Less scrolling, more hanging, that's what we say. SWe've scoured the library to bring you this list of highlights from Netflix's collection so you can dive right into your next family movie night.
Looking for something else? We've also rounded up the best shows on Netflix, the best movies on Hulu, the best movies on Amazon Prime, and the best movies on Disney+. For Netflix fans, check out the 10 most popular movies on Netflix right now.
Entertainment One thing that you can always count on at Netflix is that some unexpected film will conquer the algorithm and emerge from obscurity as one of the top titles on the site. This week, the 2019 revenge thriller, Cold Pursuit, landed among the most popular movies on Netflix. Liam Neeson starred in the film, and he's easily the most recognizable member of the cast, although Shameless star Emmy Rossum does have a supporting role as well.
Cold Pursuit was only a modest hit at the box office, and it couldn't recapture that old Taken magic that Neeson's been chasing since 2010. So why is this action movie suddenly so popular on Netflix? There are three reasons why it's now a minor hit, and we'll share them with you now.
Liam Neeson's out for revenge ... again Entertainment The Afghanistan War drama The Kill Team arrived in theaters with little fanfare in 2019. Only a handful of people actually saw it during its initial run. Now, The Kill Team has appeared among the most popular movies on Netflix, which may finally give it the wider audience that it deserves.
The Kill Team was directed and written by Dan Krauss, who based it on his 2013 documentary of the same name. The story loosely adapts the Maywand District murders, a series of disturbing incidents in which U.S. soldiers murdered innocent Afghan civilians seemingly for sport. Nat Wolff stars in the film as Andrew Briggman, with Alexander Skarsgård as Sergeant Deeks, Adam Long as Rayburn, Jonathan Whitesell as Coombs, Brian "Sene" Marc as Marquez, Rob Morrow as William Briggman, Osy Ikhile as Weppler, Anna Francolini as Laura Briggman, Oliver Ritchie as Cappy, Tunji Kasim as Sergeant Wallace, and Taz Skylar as Sergeant Dawes.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
