Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix F1 Live Stream Stranger Things Season 5 Best New Movies Most Popular Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney+ UFC Live Stream Best Movies on Disney+ Home Gaming How Tom Holland’s love of Uncharted helped shape the film By Giovanni Colantonio Close The film adaptation of Uncharted has been a long time coming. Sony originally started developing the project in 2008, shortly after the first game in the series launched. The film was passed between directors, producers, and casts for over a decade. As gamers would say, it was stuck in “development hell.” Adapting a film-inspired game Charting a new course Tom Holland, superfan In retrospect, it might have been a blessing in disguise. The game series quickly matured after its first entry , surpassing some of the blockbusters that inspired it. Deep characters, a riveting story, and jaw-dropping set pieces turned it into the poster child for “cinematic” video games. That gave Sony much more to work with when it finally locked down what would become the final cast and crew in 2020.
Uncharted , which finally hits theaters on February 18, now has the tricky task of getting players excited about a movie adaptation of a game series that in many ways has already topped Hollywood films. For director Ruben Fleischer, who I spoke to ahead of the film’s release, that meant knowing when to stick to the source material and when to part from it. Luckily, he had a superfan on set to help: Star Tom Holland.
Mission: Impossible – Dead Reckoning Part One trailer teases Tom Cruise’s last hurrah Top Gun: Maverick trailer sends Tom Cruise back in the air Spider-Men unite as No Way Home heads to digital and Blu-ray Adapting a film-inspired game When the Venom director originally came onto the project in 2020, he had only played the first game in the series, Uncharted: Drake’s Fortune.
 As soon as he got the gig, he played through the rest of the series, with Uncharted 4: A Thief’s End becoming his favorite. He notes that the car chase in that title is his favorite car chase in any medium ever and one he’s itching to adapt in a film.
From left. Victor “Sully” Sullivan (Mark Wahlberg) and Nathan Drake (Tom Holland) look to make their move in Columbia Pictures’ Uncharted. Photo by Clay Enos Image used with permission by copyright holder Flesicher was “geeked out” by the idea of a treasure-hunting game that essentially let players become Indiana Jones.
 The movie even makes some not-so-subtle nods to those movies throughout (“Nuns. Why did it have to be nuns?” Holland, who plays Nathan Drake, deadpans in one scene.) For Fleischer, the game series already had every ingredient needed to work as a film.
“What really distinguishes Uncharted is its comedic tone,” Flesicher tells Digital Trends. “The dynamic between Nate and Sully, their relationship, the banter, the incredible action set pieces that are always pushing the envelope. They’re all things that make for a great video game, but also things that make for a great movie.” “The games are so immersive and already so cinematic. The action is beyond movie quality.” Some moments from the film are explicitly inspired by the game. An action set piece that sees Nathan Drake clinging onto cargo as it flies out of a plane is directly pulled from Uncharted 3: Drake’s Deception.
 The movie opens with a flashback to Nate’s time in an orphanage that’s reminiscent of Uncharted 4 ’s opening.
Tom Holland stars as Nathan Drake in Columbia Pictures’ Uncharted.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Even with those similarities, there are a lot of differences, too. It’s just as much informed by Pirates of the Caribbean as it is Uncharted.
 The more film-inspired riffs on the premise are what help it stand up on its own, rather than putting it in competition with an unparalleled, interactive blockbuster game.
“With video game adaptations, it would be a mistake to try and offer up a movie that recreates the experience of playing the game,” Fleischer says. “The games are so immersive and already so cinematic. The action is beyond movie quality. I don’t know, if you’ve played the game, why you would want to watch a movie version of it if it’s just one-to-one.” Charting a new course Naughty Dog, the game series’ developer, played a key role on the project. Co-president Neil Druckmann offered notes to let producers know if anything betrayed the spirit of the game. It even helped get some Easter eggs into the film — eagle-eyed fans might catch a familiar paw print early on.
“I think the fact that it’s a video game movie allowed us to bend the rules of gravity.” The trick was finding where it made sense to tweak the game’s DNA. That started with its hero, Nathan Drake. Played by Holland, the movie presents a much younger (and less lethal) version of the character, which was an early point of contention for series faithful. Fleischer believes that decision makes perfect sense for the story the film tells.
“We wanted to show that Nate was somebody who wasn’t some hardened, jaded action-star. He was just a kid who got brought on this adventure,” Fleischer says. “Perhaps over time, he’ll become more callous and bloodthirsty, but for the sake of this film, it didn’t feel true to our version of the character to have him wantonly shooting people … the violence just seemed a little excessive.” Rather than replicating exact action moments, the film looks to the rules and logic of the game for inspiration. One scene featured in a trailer shows Holland fighting atop a massive pirate ship as it’s carried through the air by helicopters. It’s completely over the top, even compared to the games, but it’s also distinctly Uncharted.
“There’s no limit to what we could come up with in terms of how extreme it could be,” Fleisher says. “I think the fact that it’s a video game movie allowed us to bend the rules of gravity. Certain people have noted upon seeing the trailer, ‘there’s no way those helicopters could carry the boats!’ But if you’re worried about that, then you’re not really invested in the story.” “There’s a little bit of a video game logic to certain aspects of the action, but that’s a good thing.” Tom Holland, superfan It helped to have a superfan on set in the form of Holland. The Spider-Man star puts his own stamp on Nathan Drake, bringing some of Peter Parker’s anxious energy to the role. But as an actor who loves the games, Holland helped make sure some of the series’ finer details stayed intact.
“It was super helpful to have Tom Holland on set because he’s a huge fan of the game itself,” Fleischer says. “If he were to pick up a piece of paper in the space, he’d make sure to turn it over and back just like Nathan Drake would do. That’s a detail that even I wouldn’t have thought to have done, but as a huge fan of the game, he wanted to make sure every moment felt like an Uncharted moment.” Director Ruben Fleischer and Tom Holland on the set of Columbia Pictures’ Uncharted. Photo by Clay Enos Image used with permission by copyright holder Holland wasn’t just instrumental in developing the film’s version of Nathan Drake; his love of the games influenced how certain scenes were put together. Puzzle solving is a big part of the film, as it is in the game, with the cast finding hidden switches and keyholes in old ruins. For a player like Holland, those puzzles didn’t initially feel tricky enough to stump Nathan Drake.
“He’s also added some complications to the puzzle solving,” Fleischer says. “Sometimes we’d have a scene conceived and rehearsed and he’d say, ‘Nah, it’s too easy, it’s too easy! They wouldn’t make it this easy on you in the games!’ He’d make sure we were always adding obstacles he’d have to overcome as Nathan Drake.” All those little details help Uncharted capture the feel of the games even when it’s inventing totally new situations for Nate and Sully. It’s a video game adaptation where everyone involved seems eager to do the game justice. Sometimes, that means not being too precious about the source material and taking more subtle cues to get at the heart of it.
Uncharted opens in theaters nationwide on Friday, February 18.
Editors' Recommendations 12 new Marvel characters we want to see in the Spider-Man 4 movie Where the Crawdads Sing trailer reveals love and murder How VFX powered Spider-Man: No Way Home’s villain team-up Uncharted director is working on a Jak and Daxter adaptation Uncharted’s latest poster echoes its video game roots Entertainment Action Games Features Sony Gaming Uncharted: Legacy of Thieves Collection marks an exciting moment for PlayStation fans. It finally gives Uncharted 4: A Thief’s End its much anticipated PS5 upgrade, bringing faster load times, DualSense integration, performance boosts, and more. One of Nathan Drake’s finest adventures just got better.
Uncharted: Legacy of Thieves Collection - Pre-Order Trailer | PS5 Entertainment Tom Holland is currently headlining the blockbuster comic book film, Spider-Man: No Way Home, but Sony is also putting him front and center for another big-screen franchise. Sony Pictures has just released a second official trailer for Uncharted, which features Holland as treasure hunter Nathan Drake. Sony's Uncharted video games turned Nate into an icon in his own right, and it looks like the film will maintain the tradition of throwing him into a constant series of dangerous events.
UNCHARTED - Official Trailer 2 (HD) Entertainment In December, Spider-Man: No Way Home will wrap up a trilogy of movies starring Tom Holland as Peter Parker/Spider-Man, but it won't be the end of Holland's run as the wall-crawling superhero. In a new interview, Spider-Man producer Amy Pascal revealed that Sony Pictures and Marvel Studios are already planning a new trilogy of Spider-Man films.
"This is not the last movie that we are going to make with Marvel," Pascal told Fandango. "[This is not] the last Spider-Man movie. We are getting ready to make the next Spider-Man movie with Tom Holland and Marvel … we're thinking of this as three films, and now we're going to go on to the next three. This is not the last of our MCU movies ... Marvel and Sony are going to keep going together as partners." Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
