Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix F1 Live Stream Stranger Things Season 5 Best New Movies Most Popular Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney+ UFC Live Stream Best Movies on Disney+ Home Entertainment Features Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? FX’s Legion is still the most ambitious Marvel TV show By Guillermo Kurten Close TV, for better and worse, has become a bigger focus of the superhero genre since the streaming market got even more crowded with the additions of Disney+ and HBO Max.
 The former, in particular, has become a hot spot for the genre as the wildly lucrative Marvel Cinematic Universe incorporated the medium as a key piece in their “Phases.” A mesmerizing blend of ’60s aesthetics and psychological horror Delving into themes of mental illness But while recent MCU shows like WandaVision and Loki have been well-received in part for — at least at some point — doing something narratively new and exciting, the X-Men spin-off series Legion for FX is arguably the most unique TV endeavor for the overall Marvel brand. From both a visual and thematic standpoint, Legion tells a wonderfully bizarre, bold, terrifying, and genuine superhero-themed story across its three-season run that deserves to be in the same conversation as other shows like Daredevil as some of the best to come out of live-action comic book TV.
A mesmerizing blend of ’60s aesthetics and psychological horror Image used with permission by copyright holder The juxtaposition of vibrant ’60s-themed aesthetics with ominous elements of outright psychological horror is one of the consistently greatest aspects of showrunner Noah Hawley’s Legion.
 From character wardrobes to set design to meticulous cinematography, the show manages to tastefully blend the visual elements of that decade with the modern day to put together an artistic direction that simultaneously feels like its own.
Without Marvel or big studios, San Diego Comic-Con 2023 still mattered The best sci-fi shows on TV right now In the MCU, Marvel’s most important stories are in its Disney+ shows Just as important to that distinctive art direction, though, was the enticingly unsettling use of psychological horror to complement it. Seeing Dan Stevens as protagonist David Haller’s afflictions manifested around him was as psychedelic as it was genuinely horrific, especially when it threw in some body horror for good measure.
Image used with permission by copyright holder That, of course, is also in part thanks to Aubrey Plaza’s brilliantly erratic depiction of one of the several manifestations of the Shadow King’s vice-grip over David’s tortured psyche.
It’s one of the boldest approaches to a live-action comic book adaptation taken in recent memory that — despite only having concluded three years ago — makes it hard to think if something this unabashedly, relentlessly trippy could be done again in the genre in the current age of streaming. If a show could ever be considered jarring and overwhelming but manage to make those positive traits, then Legion is certainly among the ones that have mastered that balance.
Legion occasionally makes it hard to remember that it’s a superhero TV show, but not in a way that’s cynical or otherwise condescending. Rather, it’s one of the finest and seemingly unsung recent examples of how inventive the right creative team can do with the genre, and especially so with a collection of heroes and villains as celebrated and diverse as Marvel’s X-Men.
Delving into themes of mental illness Image used with permission by copyright holder Tackling sensitive themes like mental illness is a delicate balancing act in any production that chooses to use it as its premise. It has to be expressed with tact to not come across as an insulting caricature used for a cheap “crazy person” archetype while simultaneously being a compelling narrative piece that justifies and serves the overall story.
It’s been touched on before , but it’s more than worth mentioning that having David fill the role of the unreliable narrator is one of the show’s greatest storytelling strengths. Like an arguably more effective version of what Moon Knight did with Steven Grant, parsing what’s real and what isn’t through David’s perspective is both suitably disorienting and foreboding.
And not because he’s constantly being malicious or intentionally misleading but because, more often than not, David himself doesn’t know what to believe. For much of Legion , the story puts the audience in his shoes to see the world and its characters through his warped point of view.
He was diagnosed with schizophrenia as a child and spent much of his time in a psychiatric hospital, told he was severely mentally ill and, conversely, that he’s not unwell at all and this is all just the product of a special yet untamed “gift.” As the series progresses, though, it tastefully pieces together that the culprit isn’t so black and white and neither are the answers, with the solutions lying somewhere in between.
Image used with permission by copyright holder The protagonist isn’t the only expression of such themes, as the rest of the supporting cast touches on different aspects of trauma, with Rachel Keller’s Sydney Barrett perhaps being the next best example. Her characterization is just as immersive by both being intertwined with David’s story and — more importantly — standing as an autonomous and compelling character on her own merits, scars and all.
Syd’s life of physical detachment, emotional isolation, bullying, and outright sexual abuse she’s suffered isn’t used for reductive shock value and is instead used as a substantive depiction of overcoming trauma — even from the damage caused by David himself.
And it’s not often that a live-action superhero show with colorful ’60s aesthetics, haunting uses of psychological horror, and psychedelic visuals manages to convey such heavy emotional impact through Pink Floyd-inspired musical numbers — with David and his mother singing a duet of Mother being a particular highlight.
They’re not the only group used as influences for Legion ‘s music. But whether it’s a hallucinogenic representation of David’s fractured mind, a depiction of a psychic fight, or a metaphor for overcoming an emotional obstacle, these musical numbers are another showcase of Hawley and the rest of the team’s creativity in blending multiple creative approaches that serve the character-driven storytelling.
It’s hard to point to anything quite like Legion , where Hawley and co. made a superhero adaptation that’s so unique in terms of visuals and writing from most of its comic book contemporaries. The show’s refreshing narrative structure and a cocktail of distinctive artistic styles culminate in a story that’s equal parts psychologically arresting and thematically sincere.
Marvel and FX’s Legion is available to stream now on Hulu.
Editors' Recommendations Forget Loki; Invincible is the best superhero show you’re not watching right now 5 years ago, FX’s Legion used the multiverse better than the MCU ever has Marvel’s most powerful mutants, ranked from weakest to strongest Here’s what Marvel’s Daredevil: Born Again Disney+ show could look like 5 great LGBTQ+ movies & TV shows on Paramount+ Comic Book Movies Features Marvel Entertainment During the second season of The Umbrella Academy, the Hargreeves family was stuck in the past as they tried to avert an apocalypse. They succeeded, but that success had a big price. Upon their return to the present, the Hargreeves clan discovered that they no longer belonged to the new timeline. The Umbrella Academy itself no longer exists, because Sir Reginald Hargreeves adopted an almost entirely different family of superheroes: The Sparrows.
In the new trailer for The Umbrella Academy season 3, Sir Reginald is still alive, but he has no idea who the original Hargreeves siblings are. And the Sparrows don't exactly hold back on their cross-temporal siblings. A superhero fight was always inevitable, but it doesn't solve the key problem. The new timeline is violently unstable, and it will collapse in just a few days.
Entertainment While the show felt like it suffered a bit toward the end due to the 6-episode mandate that Marvel Studios seems to have with their more dramatic shows, the MCU's Moon Knight dove into some refreshingly psychological and weird places. Oscar Isaac and Ethan Hawke expectedly shone through in a story that benefited from being set in its own corner of the world.
Isaac and Marvel Studios are seemingly trying to avoid making any hard commitments to the show being a multi-season endeavor, which is admirable given the actor's desire to dedicate his time to projects he feels drawn to. However, Moon Knight could benefit from being fleshed out in the supernatural and/or street-level side of the MCU, especially after having such a criminally short final episode.
Entertainment Just when the former kid superheroes of the Umbrella Academy thought they had won, they got a very unwelcome surprise. Somehow, their adventure in 1963 has radically changed the present. This summer, Netflix's The Umbrella Academy season 3 will explore an altered timeline in which a new rival school called The Sparrow Academy rose to prominence. And in this world, Sir Reginald Hargreeves, the man who adopted and raised the superhuman family, had another batch of orphans to call his own.
Netflix has released a new teaser for The Umbrella Academy season 3, which features the best look yet at the Sparrows as they face off with our established heroes. Justin Cornwell portrays Marcus Hargreeves, with Britne Oldford as Fei Hargreeves, Jake Epstein as Alphonso Hargreeves, Genesis Rodriguez as Sloane Hargreeves, and Cazzie David as Jayme Hargreeves. But the biggest kick in the teeth for the original heroes is that their late and lamented sibling, Ben Hargreeves (Justin H. Min), is back from the dead and a member of the Sparrows.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
