Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Netflix Original Movies Best Comedies on Netflix Best Netflix Original Series Best Anime on Netflix Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Fantasy Movies on Netflix Home Entertainment Guides 3 rom-coms on Netflix you need to watch in November By Dan Girolamo Close The dawn of a new month brings an influx of new movies to stream on Netflix.
 With Halloween complete, it’s time to start thinking about the holiday season, with Thanksgiving and Christmas on the horizon. One genre that goes hand in hand with the holidays is the romantic comedy.
13 Going on 30 (2023) Love Actually (2003) Long Shot (2019) Many of the best romantic comedies are on Netflix right now.
 To celebrate November, we curated a list of three rom-coms you need to watch. Our choices include a sweet comedy about growing up, a holiday ensemble celebrating its 20th anniversary, and an odd-couple love story.
13 Going on 30 (2023) Columbia Most adults wish they could be younger. For 13-year-old Jenna Rink (Christa B. Allen), she wants to skip junior high and be “30, flirty, and thriving.” After being humiliated by a group of popular girls, Jenna’s wish comes true as she is magically transformed into a 30-year-old (Jennifer Garner) overnight.
3 TV shows on Tubi you should watch in November 3 action movies on Netflix you need to watch in November 5 sci-fi movies on Netflix you need to watch in November As an adult, Jenna is living in a beautiful New York City apartment and working as an editor at a fashion magazine. Yet, success came at a price as Jenna forgot about those who loved her the most, mainly her childhood best friend Matty (Mark Ruffalo). Wanting to make things right, Jenna reconnects with Matty and starts to turn her life around, becoming a better person in the process. However, what Jenna wants is a second chance. Will she get it? Stream 13 Going on 30 on Netflix.
Love Actually (2003) StudioCanal Christmas is right around the corner, meaning it’s the perfect time to fire up a holiday rom-com. Spread a holiday cheer with one of the best Christmas movies on Netflix , Love Actually , which will celebrate its 20th anniversary later this month. Filmed in London, Love Actually depicts ten intertwined stories with one common theme: love. The story starts five weeks before Christmas with an ensemble of hopeless romantics.
Featured characters include David (Hugh Grant), the recently elected British prime minister who has a crush on Natalie (Martine McCutcheon), a member of his junior staff; Jamie (Colin Firth), a writer who falls for his Portuguese housekeeper Aurélia (Lúcia Moniz); and Daniel (Liam Neeson), a recent widow who helps his stepson Sam (Thomas Brodie-Sangster) win over a school crush. Yet, the most famous scene involves a pair of cue cards. To me, it’s perfect.
Stream Love Actually on Netflix.
Long Shot (2019) Lionsgate Fred Flarsky (Seth Rogen) and Charlotte Field (Charlize Theron) are polar opposites. Fred is a passionate journalist who is not afraid to speak his mind. Charlotte is the stoic U.S. Secretary of State. Yet, Fred and Charlotte have a history together. Charlotte was Fred’s childhood crush and babysitter.
At a fundraising event, the two reconnect and hit it off, leading Charlotte to hire Fred as her new speechwriter as she prepares to run for President of the United States. As the duo spends more time together, they develop a romantic connection, much to the dismay of Charlotte’s team. Rogen and Theron have undeniable chemistry, a wonderful surprise in this charming and entertaining rom-com.
Stream Long Shot on Netflix.
Editors' Recommendations 3 dramas on Prime Video you need to watch in November 3 sci-fi movies on Paramount+ you need to watch in November 3 sci-fi movies on Peacock you need to watch in November 3 sci-fi movies on Hulu you need to watch in November 3 action movies on Prime Video you need to watch in November Netflix Streaming Services Entertainment Netflix is still king. Despite the increased competition from rival companies, Netflix remains the gold standard in streaming, with nearly 250 million subscribers. The most popular shows on Netflix include Stranger Things, Wednesday, and Squid Game. These shows dominate pop culture when a new season arrives on Netflix. However, plenty of good shows sneak under the radar and have developed passionate fanbases.
If you're looking for a new show in November, consider watching these three underrated gems on Netflix. Our selections include a cyberpunk crime thriller, a charming Christmas adventure, and a Western drama.
Altered Carbon (2018-2020) Entertainment There's far more focus on Discovery's reality shows than there used to be on Max. That's especially clear when you see that over half of the most popular shows on Max are, shall we say, not living up to the HBO branding that this streaming service used to be measured by. That's why we're throwing the spotlight on three underrated shows on Max that you should check out.
This month, we've chosen a horror series from Spain, a classic HBO drama, and a short-lived drama that really turned up the heat on TNT. These are the three underrated shows on Max that you need to watch in November.
30 Coins (2021-present) Entertainment If you're coming to Hulu for your action fix, then you've come to the right place. Hulu may be owned and operated by Disney, but this streaming service is about as far from the Mickey Mouse Club as you can get. Hulu has all of the R-rated action flicks that just wouldn't fit in at Disney+, Deadpool movies and Logan notwithstanding.
This month, two of our action picks are based on comic books, while the third is an all-timer in the action genre that won't be hanging around on Hulu for much longer. These are the three action movies on Hulu that you need to watch in November.
Blade II (2001) Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
