Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix F1 Live Stream Stranger Things Season 5 Best New Movies Most Popular Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney+ UFC Live Stream Best Movies on Disney+ Home Entertainment Guides Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Don’t let these 3 hidden gem November streaming TV shows fly under your radar By Christine Persaud Close November is chock-full of wonderful new shows you might have heard about already, including Monarch: Legacy of Monsters , the latest in the MonsterVerse featuring Godzilla and starring Kurt Russell, and the murder mystery A Murder at the End of the World starring The Crown ‘s Emma Corrin.
 But as we head full force into the holiday season, there are plenty of other fabulous shows being released that aren’t talked about as much.
Lawmen: Bass Reeves The Artful Dodger The Buccaneers You won’t want to let these three hidden gem streaming TV shows fly under your radar in November, as all of them have been getting largely positive reviews so far.
Lawmen: Bass Reeves Lawmen: Bass Reeves , one of the coolest new shows you probably haven’t heard about, hails from Taylor Sheridan, the man behind Yellowstone , and was originally going to serve as a spinoff to that massive hit series. Now standing on its own, it’s a Western starring David Oyelowo as the title character. He’s a federal peace officer working in the Indian Territory of Fort Smith, Arkansas. Highly skilled at his job, he has captured thousands of dangerous criminals without injury.
3 TV shows on Tubi you should watch in November 3 underrated shows on Hulu you need to watch in November 3 TV comedies on Prime Video you need to watch in November But as the first Black U.S. marshal, Reeves feels the weight of his position, which puts a strain on his family and his morality. An anthology series set in the 1800s, Lawmen: Bass Reeves is based on the true story of the man who inspired the character of the Lone Ranger and will fit right in with the Yellowstone fan base. It also stars Dennis Quaid and Donald Sutherland.
Stream Lawmen: Bass Reeves on Paramount+.
The Artful Dodger Based on the Charles Dickens’ character from the novel Oliver Twist , the series follows Jack Dawkins, who goes by the name Artful Dodger because he’s a skilled and cunning leader of a gang of child criminals, with a special knack for pickpocketing. In this interpretation, Thomas Brodie-Sangster (the little kid from Love Actually ) portrays a grown version of the character while David Thewlis plays his elderly mentor, Fagin.
Living in Australia in the 1850s, Jack has been working as a surgeon in his adult life, having left his criminal past behind him. But when an old friend comes back into his life, Jack feels the pull back into the darker underworld of his old persona.
The Artful Dodger isn’t released until the end of the month, but it will be a must-watch for fans of the Dickens character.
Stream The Artful Dodger on Hulu.
The Buccaneers If you love Netflix’s Bridgerton and shows like Gossip Girl , you’ll want to check out The Buccaneers on Apple TV+. Set in 1800s London, the story centers around a group of women who are children of wealthy American parents. They are visiting London in search of an English aristocrat to marry, but they’re in for culture shock when they arrive.
The finest governesses in England try to tame these wild women to no avail. It’s based on the unfinished Edith Wharton novel, and initial reviews are polarizing.
 But for a delicious guilty pleasure with fabulous costumes and a soapy feel, The Buccaneers is one show you won’t want to fly under your radar this month.
Stream The Buccaneers on Apple TV+.
Editors' Recommendations Don’t let these 3 November hidden streaming movie gems fly under your radar 6 best TV shows you need to watch in December 3 underrated 1980s sci-fi TV shows you should watch in November Don’t miss these 6 fall 2023 movies that are flying under the radar Don’t let these 3 October hidden streaming movie gems fly under your radar Entertainment The holiday season is closing in on us quickly. Before you know it, you’ll be cleaning up after a big Thanksgiving turkey day and prepping for Christmas or the particular holiday you celebrate. This is also the time many of us slow down, relax, recharge, and spend quality time with the family before shifting back into full gear for the new year. It’s also the perfect time to immerse yourself in a new or returning show.
When it comes to TV shows you need to watch in November, they mostly include shows that are returning with new seasons. Notably, there’s a multi-Emmy-winning series about the Royal Family that is finally coming to an end. There’s also a new show based on a popular 2010 cult classic movie and a long-awaited reality show based on Netflix’s most popular foreign series that features the biggest cast and largest single cash prize ever in the history of the genre.
Invincible season 2 (November 3) Invincible - Season 2 Teaser Trailer | Prime Video Entertainment In a volatile streaming economy, FAST services continue to rise in popularity. These subscriptions are free to use. The only catch is ads are featured with each program. However, most major streaming services offer ad-supported tiers. At least FAST doesn't cost a cent to use. One of the best FAST systems is Tubi, a service that includes over 50,000 movies and shows.
There are plenty of popular and underrated movies on Tubi in many genres. The same goes for TV shows. For October, we selected three TV shows you should watch on Tubi: a psychological horror-thriller, a Roman Empire series, and a reality cooking competition.
Hannibal (2013-2015) Entertainment Every month, you hear about some of the best new shows to stream on all the top streaming services. For October, for example, this includes shows like the second season of Loki on Disney+ and Apple TV+ original series Lessons in Chemistry. But there are plenty of other great shows flying under the radar, not only this month but every month.
In some cases, the shows surprise by moving into the respective streaming service’s top 10 list as they are discovered by more and more viewers. In other cases, it’s a much slower build until people realize this show is worth watching: consider Suits, which aired on USA Network and ended in 2019 but is finding a second life now through Netflix. So, what new shows might fall into a similar category this month? We have rounded up three hidden streaming TV show gems to watch this month that you might not otherwise have considered.
Gen V Gen V – Official Redband Trailer | Prime Video Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
