Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix F1 Live Stream Stranger Things Season 5 Best New Movies Most Popular Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney+ UFC Live Stream Best Movies on Disney+ Home Entertainment Features How do I get into Star Trek? A guide to how to watch the beloved sci-fi franchise By Dylan Roth Close Few science fiction franchises have made as enormous a cultural impact as Star Trek.
 Trek’s language and visual iconography, from “warp speed” to your phone’s built-in “live long and prosper” emoji, are ubiquitous even to people who have never seen the show. It’s the original organized “geek culture” fandom, and the birthplace of fan fiction and cosplay as we know it. The stigma of Trekkies as unwashed, socially awkward outcasts has dissipated as sci-fi and comics culture has gone mainstream, but Star Trek itself can still be intimidating to outsiders due to its massive scale and dense mythology of more than 800 episodes and films.
Course No. 1: The sampler platter Course No. 2: the TNG era Course No. 3: the new old school Though it’s possible to explore the Star Trek universe on your own, it is best navigated with the aid of a guide. And, if you don’t happen to have a Trekkie in your life to chart your course with you (which they absolutely love to do), we’re here to offer three options as to how to get started, depending on how you like to digest stories.
Course No. 1: The sampler platter Paramount As of the time of this writing, there have been either 10 or 12 Star Trek television series (see? confusing already) and 13 Star Trek movies , spread across about 1,000 years and two different universes. Each individual series features its own spin on the basic premise of exploring strange new worlds and seeking out new civilizations, with their own subtly (or radically) different style and tone. They may not all be your cup of tea — and some are unquestionably stronger than others — but every one of them is someone’s favorite.
Star Trek vs. Star Wars: which one is better in 2023? 6 TV shows you need to watch in June 2023 The best sci-fi shows on TV right now In order to get your bearings and decide where you might want to start, you may want to treat yourself to an assortment of episodes from across the franchise. To that end, we’ve selected one episode from each series that is not necessarily the best , but is the most representative of what it has to offer. If you enjoy the one we picked, you’ll probably find it worthwhile to watch through the series in question. For series with ongoing storylines, we’ve done our best to pick samples that are early enough in the run that they shouldn’t spoil any major plot developments. Each series is mostly self-contained, so if one of them excites you, you can feel free to jump right in from the beginning and come back to the sampler when you’re finished. Star Trek series often take some time to find their bearings (especially Star Trek: The Next Generation ), but since you’ve been introduced via a strong example of the show’s potential, you’ll hopefully feel incentivized to grind through its weaker episodes. The shows that we do not recommend as any viewer’s first Star Trek — The Animated Series , Short Treks , and Picard — are excluded from this list.
Star Trek: The Original Series – The Corbomite Maneuver (season 1, episode 11) Star Trek II: The Wrath of Khan (representing the film series) Star Trek: The Next Generation – Darmok (season 5, episode 2) Star Trek: Deep Space Nine – Duet (season 1, episode 19) Star Trek: Voyager – Night (season 5, episode 1) Star Trek: Enterprise – Broken Bow (season 1, episode 1) Star Trek: Discovery – Brother (season 2, episode 1) Star Trek: Lower Decks – Where Pleasant Fountains Lie (season 2, episode 7) Star Trek: Prodigy – Time Amok (season 1, episode 8) Star Trek: Strange New Worlds – The Serene Squall (season 1, episode 7) Course No. 2: the TNG era Image used with permission by copyright holder Though the original 1960s Star Trek is responsible for the franchise’s cult following and its survival as a cultural fixture during the long hiatus of the 1970s, the period from 1989 to 1999 was, without a doubt, Trek’s golden age. There were never more casual fans of Star Trek than in the 1990s, and the sheer volume of Star Trek being released was staggering. There are huge highlights in both classic and streaming-era Trek, but this is the period of time during which Star Trek was most consistently good, and its legacy continues into many of the modern installments of the franchise. This is the era of Picard, Data, Worf, Sisko, Janeway, and Seven of Nine, and it spawned much of Trek’s lingering iconography and cultural memes.
This golden age is widely considered to begin with the third season of Star Trek: The Next Generation , when new showrunner Michael Piller took the helm and built the writers’ room that would guide the franchise for the next decade. There are a few excellent episodes in those first two seasons, but starting with season 3 will spare you many of Star Trek’s worst hours. The success of TNG would lead to two direct spinoffs, Deep Space Nine and Voyager , whose overlapping runs allowed for a handful of characters and storylines to pass between them. Despite these interweaving threads, each series can be watched straight through without the need to bounce back-and-forth to understand what’s going on. (In the ’90s, nobody was expected to keep track of all that. Thanks, Marvel!) Star Trek: The Next Generation (beginning with season 3) The Next Generation film series Generations First Contact Insurrection Nemesis Star Trek: Deep Space Nine Star Trek: Voyager Once you’re through with these shows, you can press on to their various follow-up series from the streaming era: Star Trek: Lower Decks , an animated sitcom set after the TNG era that lovingly and liberally lampoons its tropes Star Trek: Picard , a sequel to the TNG films and, to a lesser extent, Voyager Star Trek: Prodigy , an all-ages animated series that is a spiritual sequel to Voyager Once you’ve exhausted this material, if you’re still itching for more Trek, there’s the entire classic era to dig into, which you are now well-equipped to tackle in whatever order you’d like.
Course No. 3: the new old school Paramount In 2009, the hibernating Star Trek franchise kicked back into high gear with a new trilogy of big-budget motion pictures, beginning with the film simply called Star Trek.
 Based on The Original Series but set in its own continuity (which has since been named the Kelvinverse), these films repackage Star Trek’s classic characters like Kirk, Spock, and Uhura into the context of a modern blockbuster. The pace and tone have more in common with Star Wars than with any Trek that came before, but it’s a fun and exciting on-ramp to the franchise that happens to segue very easily into the first of the modern streaming series, Star Trek: Discovery.
While set in the Prime Universe (along with the rest of the core Trek canon), Discovery borrows its visual language and heightened emotional tone from the Kelvinverse films, making it a natural next step for fans of the modern trilogy.
Discovery is also one of the earliest jumping-on points in the chronology of Trek, and its second season leads directly into the latest and most acclaimed series, Strange New Worlds , which in turn creates both a tonal and chronological bridge to The Original Series.
 From there, you’re off to the races, able to traverse the rest of the Star Trek Universe in what, for the most part, will be both production order and story order.
The Kelvinverse Film Trilogy: Star Trek , Star Trek Into Darkness , Star Trek Beyond Star Trek: Discovery (seasons 1 and 2) Overlaps with Short Treks You can finish Discovery here, too, but it might be more fun to pick it up chronologically much, much later) Star Trek: Strange New Worlds Star Trek: The Original Series Star Trek: The Animated Series , which is basically just a low-budget TOS season 4 Star Trek classic film series The Motion Picture The Wrath of Khan The Search for Spock The Voyage Home The Final Frontier The Undiscovered Country Star Trek: The Next Generation The Next Generation film series: Generations First Contact Insurrection Nemesis Star Trek: Deep Space Nine Star Trek: Voyager Star Trek: Enterprise (chronologically, this actually comes first, but you’re better off watching it here, in production order) Star Trek: Lower Decks Star Trek: Prodigy Star Trek: Picard Star Trek: Discovery (seasons 3-5) There are, no doubt, a dozen other ways to get into Star Trek. You can search online and find Star Trek viewers’ guides that are as old as the World Wide Web itself, and they’ll all be at least a little different. Every series has its ardent defenders who insist that it’s the only one you need to watch, and every series has its haters who would see it struck from the canon altogether. What we offer are the tools to go boldly into that vast unknown and discover for yourself. We’ll see you out there.
Editors' Recommendations At SDCC, Strange New Worlds goes full musical and more Star Trek trailers Star Trek: Strange New Worlds season 2 trailer unveils Lower Decks crossover Spock takes command in Star Trek: Strange New Worlds season 2 teaser Suck it, Picard. The Orville is Star Trek: The Next Generation’s true spiritual successor Does Star Trek have a future on the big screen? Features Entertainment Casual Trekkies think that Star Trek began with Captain Kirk, Spock, and Dr. McCoy in the original series. However, the most passionate fans know that it all started with Captain Pike, his first officer, Number One, and a noticeably younger Spock in the unaired pilot, "The Cage." Nearly six decades later, the original crew of the Enterprise is finally getting its own show in Star Trek: Strange New Worlds. And to set the stage for next week's series premiere, Paramount+ has released two new videos to allow both new and classic fans to boldly go into the future.
Star Trek: Strange New Worlds | Bringing A New Series To Life | Paramount+ Entertainment On Paramount+, the Star Trek never ends. Hot off the heels of Star Trek: Discovery season 4 and Star Trek: Picard season 2, Paramount+ is planning to dive into a brand-new series: Star Trek: Strange New Worlds. And yet it may be the most old-school Star Trek series to come along in decades. Everything from the aesthetic to the characters and music has been chosen to evoke a modernized version of the original show that spawned the franchise. And unlike its fellow Trek shows, Strange New Worlds is going with self-contained single episode stories.
Star Trek: Strange New Worlds | Official Trailer | Paramount+ Entertainment Star Trek: Strange New Worlds will explore the cosmos with the original captain of the Enterprise, Christopher Pike, this spring. However, the prequel series apparently has plans for Pike's successor as well. Via Deadline, Paul Wesley has signed on for season two as a younger version of James T. Kirk. William Shatner's Captain Kirk was one of the icons of the original Star Trek. For the reboot films, Chris Pine has assumed the role of Kirk in three movies to date.
Wesley previously headlined The Vampire Diaries for eight seasons as Stefan Salvatore. More recently, he appeared in Tell Me A Story and the Shudder original film History of Evil. Wesley has expanded his career to directing, helming episodes of Shadowhunters, Legacies, and Roswell, New Mexico.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
