Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix F1 Live Stream Stranger Things Season 5 Best New Movies Most Popular Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney+ UFC Live Stream Best Movies on Disney+ Home Entertainment Guides The 10 most popular movies on Max right now By David Caballero Close Max has gone through several significant and controversial changes since its launch in May 2020.
Previously known as HBO Max , the streaming service currently has nearly 96 million subscribers and counting. Max has an impressive library of movies and shows, including acclaimed HBO efforts, classic Warner Bros. pictures, and original content.
With so much to choose from, viewers might find settling for a single thing almost impossible. Luckily, they can see what others are watching, as Max now has a ranking of its most popular films. From revered classics to modern films, the most popular films on Max are an ideal representation of the streamer’s remarkably versatile collection.
Looking for something else? We’ve also rounded up the best movies on Max , the best shows on Max , the best shows on Netflix , the best movies on Netflix , the best movies on Amazon Prime , and the best movies on Disney+.
 For Netflix fans, check out the 10 most popular movies on Netflix right now and the 10 most popular shows on Netflix right now.
The best movies and shows on Shudder right now (November 2023) The best feel-good movies on Netflix right now Best new movies to stream on Netflix, Hulu, Prime Video, Max (HBO), and more 10. Spaceballs (1987) 96m Comedy, Science Fiction Bill Pullman, Rick Moranis, Mel Brooks Mel Brooks watch on max watch on max Mel Brooks’ irreverent space opera parody Spaceballs lampoons the most famous sci-fi franchises, including Star Wars, Star Trek , and more. The film stars an ensemble led by Bill Pullman, Rick Moranis, John Candy, and Brooks, and it follows a pilot-for-hire and his sidekick, who must save a princess from the evil Spaceballs. Although far from Brooks’ best effort, Spaceballs is a hilarious and suitably silly parody that will satisfy fans of the acclaimed director’s oeuvre.
Read less 9. Miss Congeniality (2000) 111m Comedy, Crime, Action Sandra Bullock, Benjamin Bratt, Michael Caine Donald Petrie watch on max watch on max Academy Award winner Sandra Bullock ( Bullet Train ) stars in the 2000 action comedy Miss Congeniality.
 The plot centers on Gracie Hart, an FBI agent who must infiltrate the Miss United States pageant to disrupt a terrorist attack. Anchored by a spectacular performance from Bullock and buoyed by a stellar supporting cast, including Michael Caine, William Shatner, and Candice Bergen, Miss Congeniality is a classic of 2000s comedy.
Read less 8. American Gangster (2007) 157m Drama, Crime Russell Crowe, Denzel Washington, Chiwetel Ejiofor Ridley Scott watch on max watch on max Academy Award winners Denzel Washington and Russell Crowe star in Ridley Scott’s 2007 crime biopic American Gangster.
 The film dramatizes the criminal career of Frank Lucas a notorious drug smuggler who rose to power in the late 1960s.
Although far from historically accurate, American Gangster is a stunning showcase for its two brilliant leads, and it features an Oscar-nominated supporting performance from the late Ruby Dee and some of Scott’s most assured directing.
Read less 7. Avatar (2009) 162m Action, Adventure, Fantasy, Science Fiction Sam Worthington, Zoe Saldaña, Stephen Lang James Cameron watch on max watch on max James Cameron’s 2009 sci-fi Avatar is the highest-grossing film of all time. Set on the lush moon Pandora, the plot centers on humanity’s efforts to mine a precious mineral, which puts the local Na’vi tribe at risk.
A watershed moment in modern filmmaking, Avatar remains a seminal and game-changing sci-fi film that revolutionized the industry. Its reputation was further enhanced by the long-awaited release of its sequel, Avatar: The Way of Water , which cemented it as a major cinematic franchise and confirmed Cameron as a singularly creative mind.
Read less 6. Cloudy with a Chance of Meatballs (2009) 90m Animation, Comedy, Family Bill Hader, Anna Faris, James Caan Phil Lord, Christopher Miller watch on max watch on max Sony Pictures Animation’s 2009 animated adventure Cloudy with a Chance of Meatballs was an unexpected success. The film centers on Flint Lockwood, an inventor who develops a machine that can turn water into food.
Starring the voice talents of Bill Hader ( Barry ) and Anna Faris, Cloudy with a Chance of Meatballs is a quirky, funny, and wildly creative family adventure that will entertain parents and children alike.
Read less 5. Dawn of the Planet of the Apes (2014) 130m Science Fiction, Action, Drama, Thriller Andy Serkis, Jason Clarke, Gary Oldman Matt Reeves watch on max watch on max The sequel to 2011’s Rise of the Planet of the Apes , Dawn of the Planet of the Apes continues Caesar’s storyline. The film chronicles the increasingly tense relationship between the few surviving humans and Caesar’s expanding ape community, where the treacherous and human-hating Koba sows discord.
Powered by Andy Serkis and Toby Kebbell’s tour-de-force performances and guided by Matt Reeves’ confident directorial approach, Dawn of the Planet of the Apes is a cerebral sci-fi movie that successfully expands the franchise’s lore with thought-provoking ideas of survival and the human condition.
Read less 4. Twister (1996) 113m Action, Adventure, Drama Helen Hunt, Bill Paxton, Cary Elwes Jan de Bont watch on max watch on max Oscar-winner Helen Hunt and the late Bill Paxton lead a large ensemble in the 1996 disaster film Twister.
 The plot follows a group of ambitious storm chasers attempting to collect data on tornadoes to develop new-and-improved weather alert systems.
Well-known for its impressive visual effects and high-concept plot, Twister is a superior and surprisingly quotable blockbuster that ranks among the finest high-budget efforts of the late ’90s. A sequel is currently in production, although its unlikely it will reach the inventive highs of the original.
Read less 3. Get Hard (2015) 100m Comedy Will Ferrell, Kevin Hart, Alison Brie Etan Cohen watch on max watch on max Will Ferrell and Kevin Hart make an unlikely duo in the 2015 crime comedy Get Hard.
 The film follows a wealthy investment banker who asks one of his employees to toughen him up for prison after he gets accused of a crime he didn’t commit.
Although far from funny or inventive, Get Hard benefits from the ever-reliable talents of Ferrell and Hart. The duo crafts an entertaining dynamic, elevating a pedestrian screenplay through sheer commitment and innate comedic genius.
Read less 2. BS High (2023) 95m Documentary Martin Desmond Roe, Travon Free watch on max watch on max The 2023 documentary BS High chronicles the Bishop Sycamore High School scandal of 2021. It features interviews with several of the scandal’s key figures, including former coach Roy Johnson and his colleagues, as well as journalists and investigators who covered the story.
BS High paints a chilling portrayal of the man behind the scandal, an unrepentant and fascinating figure. Itprovides further insight into one of the most unbelievable sports cases in recent memory. By digging deeper and going further, the documentary paints a full picture, even if it doesn’t answer all the questions it raises.
Read less 1. The Flash (2023) 144m Action, Adventure, Science Fiction Ezra Miller, Sasha Calle, Michael Keaton Andy Muschietti watch on max watch on max Andy Muschietti’s long-awaited superhero film The Flash finally arrived in June 2023, with uneven results. The film follows Barry Allen, who travels back in time to prevent his mother from dying. However, his actions have severe repercussions, and he must seek unexpected allies to repair the damage he caused.
Although it feaures several intriguing ideas and a handful of great performances, The Flash also includes several cringeworthy moments that severely affect its impact. Still, the film is far from DC’s worst effort, even if it is among the studio’s most uninspired.
Read less Editors' Recommendations The 50 best movies on Netflix right now (November 2023) The 10 most popular movies on Netflix right now The best movies on Hulu right now (November 2023) The best kids movies on Netflix right now The best movies on Disney+ right now (November 2023) Best Products HBO Max Streaming Guides Streaming Services Movie images and data from: Entertainment Finding time for a family movie night is tough, which is why it's important to optimize those nights when you're all together by knowing the best family movies on Netflix ahead of time. Less scrolling, more hanging, that's what we say. SWe've scoured the library to bring you this list of highlights from Netflix's collection so you can dive right into your next family movie night.
Looking for something else? We've also rounded up the best shows on Netflix, the best movies on Hulu, the best movies on Amazon Prime, and the best movies on Disney+. For Netflix fans, check out the 10 most popular movies on Netflix right now.
Entertainment Since the release of its critically acclaimed war movie Beasts of No Nation, Netflix has built a strong library of movies and shows in every genre, from comedy to horror. However, the best dramas on Netflix have brought critical acclaim and audience respect to the streamer, preserving its impressive subscriber count and securing its place as the king of the streaming world. Now, multiple Best Picture nominees later, Netflix can afford to attract top talents like Killers of the Flower Moon's Martin Scorsese, Alfonso Cuarón, Jane Campion, and David Fincher. The streamer has a remarkably strong dramatic library, boasting original, Oscar-nominated efforts and acquired beloved classics.
However, because of Netflix's wide and diverse collection of quality films, it might be difficult for you to choose just one, especially because they're not all as high-quality as others. To save you some time and effort, we've compiled a list of the best dramas on Netflix right now.
Netflix may be a treasure trove when it comes to content, but it doesn't have everything. Thankfully, we've also curated a list of the best dramas on Hulu and the best drama shows on Amazon Prime Video.
Entertainment The best action movies on Netflix right now include some all-time classics, at least one major 2023 summer blockbuster, and a whole lot more. But, like with any collection on Netflix, the library is always changing. There are a few quality additions for November, and we're keeping tabs on them for you to curate this list to help you keep up the action on your next movie night.
We've also curated guides to the best action movies on Amazon Prime, the best action movies on Disney+, and the best action movies on Hulu if you're looking for additional recommendations.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
