Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix F1 Live Stream Stranger Things Season 5 Best New Movies Most Popular Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney+ UFC Live Stream Best Movies on Disney+ Home Entertainment Guides 3 TV shows on Tubi you should watch in November By Dan Girolamo Close The prices of many streaming services are getting out of hand. Every major streaming service, from Netflix to Disney+, has seemingly increased monthly rates over the last year. If you want to access thousands of movies and TV shows for free, then sign up for Tubi , an ad-supported streaming service. Tubi is considered a FAST streaming service , meaning it’s free to sign up and use. The only catch is that ads will run sparingly during your program.
Gotham (2014-2019) Lovecraft Country (2020) Luther (2010-2019) With over 50,000 movies and TV shows, Tubi can keep you entertained for a long time. To help you find something great to watch, we curated a list of three TV shows on Tubi you should watch in November: a DC origin story, a Lovecraftian drama, and a British crime thriller.
Gotham (2014-2019) Fox / Fox Most of us know Bruce Wayne ‘s origin story by now. After his parents were murdered, Bruce was left in the care of his butler Alfred. Fueled by vengeance, Bruce would later become Batman, the iconic masked vigilante in Gotham City. However, what happened in Gotham between the murder and the moment Bruce becomes Batman? That’s the basis behind Gotham , which follows a young James Gordon (Ben McKenzie) during his early days as a detective in the Gotham City Police Department.
6 best TV shows you need to watch in December Don’t let these 3 hidden gem November streaming TV shows fly under your radar 3 action movies on Netflix you need to watch in November Gordan and his corrupt partner, Harvey Bullock (Donal Logue), are tasked with solving the murders of Thomas and Martha Wayne.
Gotham is an origin story not only for Gordon but for many of Gotham’s iconic characters, including Oswald Cobblepot/The Penguin (Robin Lord Taylor), Edward Nygma/The Riddler (Cory Michael Smith), and Selina Kyle (Camren Bicondova). If you want to jump around seasons, check out Digital Trends rankings of the 10 best Gotham episodes ever.
Stream Gotham on Tubi.
Lovecraft Country (2020) HBO After serving in the Korean War and returning to Chicago, Atticus “Tic” Freeman ( the MCU villain kang Jonathan Majors) discovers that his father, Montrose (Michael K. Williams), has gone missing. Atticus finds a letter from Montrose inviting him to Ardham, Massachusetts, the town that supposedly holds the key to his family’s legacy. Accompanied by his friend, Leti (Jurnee Smollett), and Uncle George (Courtney B. Vance), Atticus begins a road trip across the country.
The journey proves quite challenging as the trio faces racism in all forms across Jim Crow America. Yet, prejudice and discrimination are just the tip of the iceberg as Atticus learns about the town’s dark secrets and the Lovecraftian monsters that inhabit the area. The series is a unique view into the horrors of systemic racism in the 1950s told through genre storytelling. Although Lovecraft County only lasted for one season, the series receives a definitive and satisfying conclusion in the final episode.
Stream Lovecraft Country on Tubi.
Luther (2010-2019) BBC One If you enjoy British crime dramas, Luther will be right up your alley. John Luther (Idris Elba) is a gifted detective working for the Serious Crime Unit. Luther’s cases typically involve violent homicides carried out by murderous sociopaths. These cases take a toll on Luther that affects his physical and mental health.
Luther investigates Alice Morgan (Ruth Wilson), a brilliant murderer who ends up walking free due to a lack of evidence. As the series progresses, Luther forms a complicated relationship with Alice, using her expertise to solve his other cases, similar to how Dr. Hannibal Lecter helped Clarice Starling and Will Graham. Without the cannibalism, of course.
Luther is a wildly entertaining detective thriller with a star-making turn from Elba. After five seasons, the series continued as a movie, Luther: The Fallen Sun , which streamed on Netflix in March 2023.
Stream Luther on Tubi.
Editors' Recommendations 3 dramas on Prime Video you need to watch in November 3 sci-fi movies on Paramount+ you need to watch in November 3 PBS shows you should watch in November 3 sci-fi movies on Peacock you need to watch in November 5 sci-fi movies on Netflix you need to watch in November Tubi Entertainment Last month on Hulu was all about horror. But in November, the new titles on Hulu include three of the best sci-fi movies of the last decade or so. For fans of the genre, this is a special treat that shouldn't be missed.
This month, our picks include Tom Cruise in a film unlike any of his previous blockbusters, as well as a cult classic robots-versus-aliens movie, and the final installment of a cult-classic film trilogy. These are the three sci-fi movies on Hulu that you need to watch in November.
Edge of Tomorrow (2014) Entertainment Action movies can get you amped up for a big day to come, or even out of a bad mood. They often feature high-speed chases, intense fight scenes, and maybe even a bit of sci-fi. They can be set just about anywhere and usually include great fight choreography and/or visual effects, sometimes even thought-provoking storylines when you dig deeper beneath the surface.
The best action movies on Prime Video include a diverse mix of titles, both old and new. When it comes to three action movies on Prime Video you need to watch in November, they all include A-list casts and one even spawned a franchise that is going strong after two decades.
V For Vendetta (2006) V For Vendetta (2005) Official Trailer #1 - Sc-Fi Thriller HD Entertainment Netflix is still king. Despite the increased competition from rival companies, Netflix remains the gold standard in streaming, with nearly 250 million subscribers. The most popular shows on Netflix include Stranger Things, Wednesday, and Squid Game. These shows dominate pop culture when a new season arrives on Netflix. However, plenty of good shows sneak under the radar and have developed passionate fanbases.
If you're looking for a new show in November, consider watching these three underrated gems on Netflix. Our selections include a cyberpunk crime thriller, a charming Christmas adventure, and a Western drama.
Altered Carbon (2018-2020) Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
