Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix F1 Live Stream Stranger Things Season 5 Best New Movies Most Popular Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney+ UFC Live Stream Best Movies on Disney+ Home Entertainment Reviews Spin Me Round review: a forgettable vacation comedy By Alex Welch Close For better or worse, Spin Me Round is a worthy addition to writer-director Jeff Baena’s growing filmography.
The Alison Brie-led comedy has a lot in common with several of Baena’s past efforts. Like Life After Beth and The Little Hours , the film is a desert-dry farce about miscommunication and confusion. In certain moments, it even feels like Baena’s most precise examination of the strange places that romantic yearning can take a person. As was the case with Horse Girl , The Little Hours , and Joshy , too, Baena’s latest effort also boasts an impressive cast of capable, charming performers, including Alison Brie, Aubrey Plaza, Molly Shannon, and Fred Armisen.
But Spin Me Round still suffers from many of the same issues that have become commonplace in Baena’s work. Specifically, the new vacation-gone-wrong comedy spends much of its runtime moving along at a meandering pace, one which its third act never manages to fully justify. Consequently, Spin Me Round ends up ranking as one of this year’s strangest comedies. Like many of Baena’s films, it’s absurdly hilarious in certain parts and needlessly frustrating in others.
Courtesy of IFC Films Spin Me Round follows Amber (Brie), a manager at an Olive Garden-esque Italian chain restaurant, who receives an invite to travel to Italy and take part in an annual corporate immersion program that is intended to honor and reward her employer’s best workers. When she arrives, Amber soon finds herself being seduced by the restaurant chain’s handsome owner, Nick (Alessandro Nivola), whose attention leads her to believe that her Italian getaway may end up being the trip of a lifetime.
Vesper review: an imaginative sci-fi adventure Confess, Fletch review: Jon Hamm charms in crime comedy reboot Barbarian review: the less you know, the better Unfortunately for Amber, not everything is as it seems. Soon enough, her doubts about Nick’s intentions, which are stoked by the warnings of his prickly assistant, Kat (Plaza), force her to consider the possibility that her Italian trip may be more dangerous than she’d initially assumed. Once that belief takes hold, it’s not long before Amber’s vacation begins to devolve into pure and utter chaos.
That premise efficiently sets Spin Me Round up to be a truly absurd, go-for-broke vacation comedy. To the film’s credit, it does eventually become that, but only after spinning its wheels for nearly an hour. The film’s script, which was co-written by Baena and Brie, never quite figures out how to effectively build toward its memorable climax, or how to plant the kind of intriguing seeds that viewers need in order to remain engaged all the way up to the moment when the artificial alfredo sauce finally hits the fan.
Courtesy of IFC Films Spin Me Round expects the absurd shenanigans of its third act to make up for the patience required to make it through its first hour, but that’s not what happens. While the film’s climax is genuinely fun to watch unfold, the surprisingly strained epilogue that follows it isn’t satisfying enough to bring everything in Spin Me Round together. Instead, the film ends up feeling, much like the food that Nivola’s restaurant chain serves, like an assemblage of disparate ingredients that have been haphazardly tossed together rather than lovingly combined into one cohesive meal.
Thankfully, while Baena has repeatedly struggled to fully explore his ideas onscreen, the writer-director has always had a knack for putting together an impressive cast. That’s especially true in Spin Me Round , which allows every one of its actors to make a memorable impression, even when the film’s plot doesn’t know what to do with them.
As Kat, Plaza brings a refreshingly forthright, acerbic presence to Spin Me Round , which just makes the lackluster treatment of her character by Brie and Baena’s script even more disappointing. Her sudden exit in the film’s second half, which is nonchalantly shrugged off by Nivola’s Nick, leaves Spin Me Round with a hole that it never quite manages to fill. Fortunately, Nivola, who has steadily emerged as one of Hollywood’s most reliable character actors, turns in yet another impressively committed performance in Spin Me Round as the lovelorn, manipulative object of Amber’s desire.
Courtesy of IFC Films Zach Woods also gradually emerges as one of Spin Me Round ’s most valuable players. After spending a majority of its first two acts waiting in the background, Woods takes hold of the reins in Spin Me Round ’s final third and gives a paranoid and frustrated performance of truly screwball proportions. His memorable turn as Dana, one of the restaurant managers that Brie’s Amber meets on her trip, helps heighten the absurdity of many of Spin Me Round ’s climactic revelations.
All of this is to say that Spin Me Round feels, in many ways, like the logical latest addition to Baena’s filmography. Its third act may be the director’s most satisfying to date, but its first hour feels, at times, frustratingly dull and drawn-out. While the film is deliberately designed to test its viewers’ patience, Spin Me Round ’s admittedly funny climax never feels big or seismic enough to be the complete payoff to its hourlong slow burn.
In other words, Spin Me Round is, like several of Baena’s past films, effective in short bursts but ultimately slighter than its all-star cast would have you believe.
Spin Me Round hits theaters and AMC+ on Friday, August 19.
Editors' Recommendations Rosaline review: Kaitlyn Dever lifts up Hulu’s Romeo and Juliet rom-com riff Meet Cute review: Peacock’s time travel rom-com falls flat Clerks III review, or how Kevin Smith made me cry Me Time review: Netflix’s latest comedy falls apart Look Both Ways review: another forgettable Netflix original Entertainment Crime thrillers love to insist that crime doesn’t pay, which is pretty rich, since staying on the straight and narrow isn’t exactly lucrative either. While so many of these glorified Old Testament cautionary tales posit dollar-signs-over-the-eyes greed as the motive for leaping into the choppy waters of illegal transgression, anyone just trying to get by in the rigged system of American capitalism might draw a different conclusion. Why play by the rules when the only way to win — or maybe even to survive — is to break them? That’s the question mulled, early and often, by the title character of Emily the Criminal, an economical gig-economy noir from writer-director John Patton Ford. Emily (Aubrey Plaza, reliably and superbly barbed) is a few years out of college and buried in $75,000 of student debt. Early on, she makes a phone call to the loan office to find out why a recent payment isn’t reflected on her statement. Turns out it went entirely to the interest, not the principal. It’s a scene guaranteed to inspire mass shudders of traumatic recognition from an audience very familiar with the Sisyphean ordeal of paying back predatory lenders.
Entertainment “The following actually happened,” insists the epigraph of I Love My Dad. For laughs and good measure, more words follow: “My dad asked me to tell you it didn’t.” Veracity is one major hook of this tenderly awkward cringe comedy from writer-director-star James Morosini, which tells a true story of such deeply misguided, debatably well-meaning parental deception that it being true only compounds the queasy fascination. Of course, the promise that everything you’re seeing is based on real events is also an invisible shield, isn’t it? No matter how much fictionalizing has taken place, stamping a story as true helps deflect any potential complaints about elements that ring false or might otherwise inspire skepticism. And I Love My Dad has a few of those.
To hear Morosini tell it, he was 19 years old when he fell for an elaborate internet ruse. The culprit: his father, dubbed Chuck here and played by the stand-up comic Patton Oswalt. At the start of the film, Franklin (Morosini as a younger version of himself) has grown so fed up with Chuck’s lies and excuses and general deadbeat inability to be where he promises he’ll be that he’s completely cut his divorced dad out of his life, blocking all methods of phone and social media contact.
Entertainment Bodies Bodies Bodies, the new film from Dutch director Halina Reijn, may offer more than its fair share of mangled and bloody corpses, but its gnarliest moments have nothing to do with death or murder. Instead, the new A24 horror comedy ultimately cares less about the deaths of the characters it traps in its suitably spooky mansion and more about burning the images they have of themselves to the ground. Thanks to its ensemble of social media-obsessed Gen Z narcissists, Bodies Bodies Bodies’ decision to prioritize social death over literal death proves to be well-founded.
Over the course of its tight 95-minute runtime, the film sends its characters spiraling down their own rabbit holes of paranoia and desperation until there’s nothing left for them to do but blame each other for the difficult situations they’ve found themselves in. For that reason, Bodies Bodies Bodies tends to be at its best and most biting when it isn't operating as a standard slasher movie, but rather as a kind of nightmarish new take on Clue for the TikTok generation.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
