Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix F1 Live Stream Stranger Things Season 5 Best New Movies Most Popular Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney+ UFC Live Stream Best Movies on Disney+ Home Entertainment Reviews Barbie review: Welcome to the Mattel Show By Alex Welch Close Margot Robbie and Ryan Gosling's stunning lead performances Sarah Greenwood’s eye-catching production design Rodrigo Prieto’s colorful, sun-dappled cinematography An over-reliance on one-note supporting characters A script that can't stop apologizing and making fun of itself A third-act resolution that is too neat for its own good There is Barbie and then there is Barbie.
 One is the most iconic doll ever made, the other is the movie of the summer. One is a vessel meant to inspire and profit off the dreams of little girls, the other is a movie meant to empower and profit off the thoughts and desires of women of all ages. One can be anything, and the other desperately wants to be everything. Both are products owned by the same toy empire, Mattel.
That may seem like too harsh a criticism to level against Barbie , the third film from director Greta Gerwig, whose previous efforts, 2017’s Lady Bird and 2019’s Little Women , rightfully earned her a place among the best American filmmakers working today. The problem is that Barbie *knows* it’s a product, and it feels bad about that. The film, which Gerwig co-wrote with her partner, Noah Baumbach, dedicates a not-insignificant portion of its energy to acknowledging and poking fun at all the problematic aspects of its own existence.
3 best comedies of 2023 so far Beyond Barbie: the 7 best Ryan Gosling performances, ranked Barbie’s ending, explained Underneath the film’s layers of artifice and pastel jubilance, there’s a constant sense of anxiety on the part of Gerwig, who seems torn between wanting to enjoy her first big-budget studio romp and feeling guilty over the corporate whims she’ll be satisfying if she does. This internal conflict is eternally present in Barbie , and it’s the thing that both makes the film interesting and also prevents it from reaching the heights it might have otherwise. The film is, in other words, just like the doll that inspired it: More than it needs to be, but less than it wants you to think it is.
Warner Bros. Pictures Barbie ’s fear of artistic fraudulence is, for the most part, absent from its enchanting first act. Following a clever Stanley Kubrick homage that was unfortunately spoiled in its first trailer, Barbie spends its opening 10 minutes introducing you to the vibrant, Wes Anderson-esque artificial home of its lead heroine, Stereotypical Barbie (Margot Robbie). The film follows her as she wakes up peacefully, showers without any water, drinks without ingesting anything, and floats down from the top of her windowless dreamhouse right into the driver’s seat of her perfect pink convertible.
The sequence is stunning to behold. From production designer Sarah Greenwood’s life-sized, plastic-looking sets to Robbie’s unparalleled commitment to fake-drinking and fake-brushing her hair, Barbie is immediately overflowing with enough clever details and visual ideas to convince you that you really have been transported to an alternate reality. For all of Barbie ’s flaws, its world-building and sense of immersion leave little to be desired. Even the film’s soundtrack initially serves as both narrator and commentator, which only helps it look, sound, and feel, at first, like a truly kooky take on a 1950s dream ballet.
It’s in these opening minutes that Barbie introduces its other, alternate Barbies, all of whom hold different jobs and are played by everyone from Issa Rae, Hari Nef, and Alexandra Shipp to Emma Mackey and Dua Lipa. Also present in Barbieland is Ken (a magnificent Ryan Gosling), who spends his days hoping, as Helen Mirren’s omnipresent Narrator observes, that Robbie’s Barbie will look his way just once. In addition to Gosling’s Ken, there are, of course, other Kens played by Simu Liu, Kingsley Ben-Adir, Ncuti Gatwa, Scott Evans, and countless others. For most of its truncated first act, Barbie succeeds on the charisma of its star-studded cast, its wry sense of humor, and its own visual splendor. It’s easy, in fact, to imagine a version of Barbie that never even left Barbieland.
Warner Bros. Pictures That might have been for the best, considering Barbie starts running into problems once it sends Robbie and Gosling’s oblivious dolls to The Real World (i.e. Los Angeles). Barbie, plagued by sudden thoughts of death, flat feet, and flashes of cellulite on her thighs, is advised by Weird Barbie (Kate McKinnon), a doll that was played with too roughly, that she’ll need to leave Barbieland if she wants things to go back to the way they were before. Thus, after agreeing to let Ken tag along, Robbie’s Barbie sets out on a mission to find the human girl responsible for her unexpected existential crisis.
Her journey brings her face-to-face Sasha (Ariana Greenblatt), a disenchanted teen girl, as well as her stressed-out mother, Gloria (America Ferrera), while Ken’s opens him up to the male wonders of the patriarchy. Fueled by his desire to finally get Barbie to reciprocate his romantic overtures, Ken decides to bring the patriarchy back to Barbieland with him, a decision that only sends Robbie’s depressed doll into an even greater existential crisis and proves to be the film’s undoing. Rather than actually exploring the ways in which society too often sidelines and tries to box women in, Barbie uses Ken’s misguided bid for glory as an excuse to monologue about the horrors of the patriarchy.
The scenes not only divert Barbie ’s focus away from its endearing cinematic flourishes, but they also flatten its ideas down to the same empty platitudes that would belong better in a Mattel advertisement. Even worse, the film relies on Ferrera’s Gloria and Greenblatt’s Sasha, two of its least-fleshed-out characters, to explain the unfairness of the patriarchy to Robbie’s Barbie instead of allowing her to come to her conclusions on her own. These scenes, most of which feel like lesser versions of Florence Pugh’s fiery monologue from Gerwig’s Little Women , rob Barbie of its thematic richness and upset the balance between colorful spectacle and compelling fantasy it had previously established.
Warner Bros. Pictures Narratively and thematically, Barbie has much in common with Peter Weir’s 1998 masterpiece, The Truman Show , which similarly centers around a character who dares to try and break free from the box he’s been put in. While Barbie borrows that film’s arc, though, it makes the mistake of moving its focus and narrative power too often away from its dissatisfied, unmoored heroine. In a somewhat tragic twist of fate, although Barbie is the rare studio blockbuster that feels like it was made by an actual flesh-and-blood artist, it could have benefitted from fewer actual human characters. It’s both a testament to the film and one of its fatal flaws that its most human characters just so happen to be made of plastic.
That’s partly because Robbie and Gosling are, in their respective roles, utterly mesmerizing. Over the years, Robbie has proven herself as one of the most courageous actresses working today. Here, she gives one of her biggest and most dynamic performances to date, bouncing from existential despair to bubbly warmth with the same elegance as the dancers who populate the background of the film’s few musical sequences. Her versatility is never more clear than when she stutters and runs away from a very-public humiliation on the part of Greenblatt’s Sasha only to cry out in a sob-choked blubber that she can’t be a fascist because she doesn’t even control the railways or the flow of commerce! You may, like Robbie, be tempted to both laugh and cry.
Warner Bros. Pictures Opposite her, Gosling does so much as the heartsick, idiotic Ken, turning in a performance that combines the romantic yearning he displayed in Blue Valentine with the same slapstick physical comedy he brought to Shane Black’s The Nice Guys.
 Gosling and Robbie will, like Rodrigo Prieto’s cinematography and Sarah Greenwood’s production design, likely be met with much praise for their work in Barbie , and deservedly so. The humanity and artistry they bring to the film, alongside Gerwig’s often elegant direction, fill it with enough life to make it an easy recommendation.
It is also, undoubtedly, one of the strangest mixed bags of the year, a film that was destined to be packaged and sold in a box and yet is desperate to scream about how much it hates to be commodified. No one can get everything they want in the end, though, not even Barbie.
Barbie is now playing in theaters.
Editors' Recommendations This Brad Pitt movie is Netflix’s most popular drama now. Here’s why you should watch it 5 Margot Robbie movies and TV shows you need to watch Is Barbie streaming? Barbie heads to the real world in new trailer based on iconic doll Conversations with A Killer: The Jeffrey Dahmer Tapes review: killer’s words yield little insight Product Reviews Entertainment Amsterdam could have been forgiven for being a lot of things, but dull is not one of them. The new film from writer-director David O. Russell boasts one of the most impressive ensemble casts of the year and is photographed by Emmanuel Lubezki, one of Hollywood’s premier cinematographers. Beyond that, its kooky premise and even wackier cast of characters open the door for Amsterdam to be the kind of screwball murder mystery that O. Russell, at the very least, seems uniquely well-equipped to make.
Instead, Amsterdam is a disaster of the highest order. It’s a film made up of so many disparate, incongruent parts that it becomes clear very early on in its 134-minute runtime that no one involved — O. Russell most of all — really knew what it is they were making. It is a misfire of epic proportions, a comedic conspiracy thriller that is written like a haphazard screwball comedy but paced like a meandering detective drama. Every element seems to be at odds with another, resulting in a film that is rarely funny but consistently irritating.
Entertainment From its chaotic, underwater first frame all way to its liberating, sun-soaked final shot, God’s Creatures is full of carefully composed images. There’s never a moment across the film’s modest 94-minute runtime in which it feels like co-directors Saela Davis and Anna Rose Holmer aren’t in full control of what’s happening on-screen. Throughout much of God’s Creatures’ quietly stomach-churning second act, that sense of directorial control just further heightens the tension that lurks beneath the surface of the film’s story.
In God's Creatures' third act, however, Holmer and Davis’ steady grip becomes a stranglehold, one that threatens to choke all the drama and suspense out of the story they’re attempting to tell. Moments that should come across as either powerful punches to the gut or overwhelming instances of emotional relief are so underplayed that they are robbed of much of their weight. God's Creatures, therefore, ultimately becomes an interesting case study on artistic restraint, and, specifically, how too calculated a style can, if executed incorrectly, leave a film feeling unsuitably cold.
Entertainment Steven Spielberg has spent his entire career channeling the heartache of his childhood into movies. He’s never really hesitated to admit as much, confessing publicly to the autobiographical elements woven through sensitive sensations like Close Encounters of the Third Kind, Catch Me If You Can, and especially his now 40-year-old E.T. The Extra-Terrestrial, an all-ages, all-time smash that welcomed the world into the melancholy of his broken home via the friendship between a sad, lonely kid and a new friend from the stars. By now, all of that baggage is inextricable from the mythology of Hollywood’s most beloved hitmaker: It’s conventional wisdom that Spielberg’s talent for replicating the awe and terror of childhood comes from the way that his own has continued to weigh, more than half a century later, on his heart and mind.
With his new coming-of-age drama The Fabelmans, Spielberg drops all but the barest pretense of artificial distance between his work and those experiences. Co-written with Tony Kushner, the great playwright who’s scripted some of the director’s recent forays into the American past (including last year’s luminous West Side Story), the film tells the very lightly fictionalized tale of an idealistic kid from a Jewish family, growing up in the American Southwest, falling in love with the cinema as his parents fall out of love with each other. Every scene of the film feels plucked from the nickelodeon of Spielberg’s memories. It’s the big-screen memoir as a twinkly-tragic spectacle of therapeutic exorcism.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
