Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix F1 Live Stream Stranger Things Season 5 Best New Movies Most Popular Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney+ UFC Live Stream Best Movies on Disney+ Home Entertainment Features Henry Thomas on E.T. turning 40, Steven Spielberg, and that notorious Atari video game By Jason Struss Close If you’re a horror fan, chances are you’ve seen Henry Thomas a lot in the last few years. The veteran actor has starred in a multitude of projects by writer/director Mike Flanagan, including The Haunting of Hill House , Midnight Mass , The Haunting of Bly Manor , and most recently, The Midnight Club.
Yet the greater public still remembers him as young Elliot, the boy who befriended an alien and made Reese’s Pieces a popular candy to consume. In celebration of E.T. the Extra-Terrestrial turning 40 years old this year , Thomas sat down with Digital Trends to talk about the film’s lasting legacy, working with Steven Spielberg, giving one of the best auditions of all time, and whether or not he played the notoriously awful E.T.
video game by Atari.
Please note: This interview has been condensed for length and clarity.
The 10 best Steven Spielberg movies, ranked by Rotten Tomatoes Digital Trends: It’s been 40 years since E.T.
was released. What are some of the fondest memories you have of making the film? Henry Thomas: Well, I remember getting the part, going into pre-production, meeting the rest of the cast, and being in a lot of meetings with Steven Spielberg. It was a big project to be a part of because it was a Spielberg film and while he wasn’t nearly as famous as he is today, he was still pretty famous back then. It was only my second film so the fact that we’re here 40 years later talking about it is amazing. It never crossed my mind at all that it would ever be as big of a success as it is even today.
Image used with permission by copyright holder What was the biggest challenge in embodying Elliot? Well, I think the biggest challenge was doing the scenes opposite a puppet. [Laughs] As real as he looks on film, E.T. wasn’t as life-like while shooting. Viewers didn’t hear the stretching of the latex by the puppet masters. It was very distracting.
Carlo Rambaldi did an excellent job creating the creature. It was just, at the end of the day, it’s a puppet. It’s not another actor. So the challenge is kind of making that puppet real. And that’s mainly what I did as Elliot. I just made E.T. real.
E.T.
was a very personal story for Spielberg.
He’s been quoted over the years as saying that Elliot was a stand-in for him as a young boy. Can you describe your working relationship with Steven during the film? Yeah, it was great. Steven was able to speak to you as a child and not make you feel like you were being talked down to. I felt like I was a colleague and a peer and that we were collaborating on the film together. Also, I was ten years old. I just wanted to make everybody happy and do a good job. There was never a bad day on set. We always had fun.
There’s a viral video of your audition for Elliot, which has been called one of the best auditions of all time. Do you recall auditioning for E.T.
? Have you looked at that video since and thought, “Man, I did a great job”? [Laughs] Well, it’s funny because I don’t look at it like it was a good audition. I see a scared kid trying to get a job. At the same time. I appreciate that it shows that I had my foot on the throttle, so to speak. As a kid, I could access those emotions. So when I see that, I think that’s good. But when people say it’s the best audition of all time or that it’s being shown in acting schools, I think that’s crazy.
I think it’s well justified. You recently reprised your role as Elliot in an Xfinity ad in 2019. We live in an age of sequels and reboots. Are you willing to come back to the role in a proper follow-up? I’m an actor, so I’ll always say yes. But I don’t think that Spielberg wants to tarnish the nature of E.T.
by building onto it. I think he wants to leave it as it is. It’s kind of a feather in his cap. But of course, I would be a part of it if it ever came to be. I think I would have to be. [Laughs] Digital Trends is a tech site that covers not only movies but also video games. I would be remiss if I didn’t ask this question: Have you ever played the notoriously awful E.T.
Atari game ? [Laughs] Yes. I received one back when it was first released. I played it and got stuck in the hole and I couldn’t get out so I never played it again. I was pretty excited that they made a video game of E.T.
when I was a kid. I thought that was really cool.
What’s the legacy E.T.
leaves behind both now and for future generations? Well, I think the film has a special place in people’s hearts because it speaks to universal human compassion and a sense of nurturing. It also appeals to the need for friendship and a healthy disregard for the rules.
Universal Pictures I think that is why it’s still popular 40 years later. Everybody can relate to it. Everybody has a good memory of the film and thinks highly of it. Ultimately, what E.T.
shows is that there is a lot of goodness in people. It’s a really good feeling for me to be a part of something like that.
The 40th-anniversary edition of E.T. the Extra-Terrestrial is available on Blu-Ray and 4K Ultra HD Digital formats.
Editors' Recommendations The 10 most popular movies of all time, ranked by box office gross Darkness and dystopia: The sci-fi movie summer of 1982 Features Entertainment November has been a great month for movies at Netflix, with the premiere of David Fincher's The Killer, and recent box office hits like Insidious: The Red Door and Spider-Man: Across the Spider-Verse. This week, the new additions include The Impossible, a 2012 survival thriller that has already landed on the list of the 10 most popular movies on Netflix. For younger viewers, Minions is also heating up the charts despite the pending departure of the other films in the franchise at the end of the month.
There's only one holiday weekend left in November, so what's the best way to stay on top of everything new on Netflix? Why, we are, of course. Our list of the best movies on Netflix right now is updated every Friday, even on holiday weekends, so you can easily find something for every movie lover in your life.
Entertainment Summer is long over, and the fall season is in full swing. It's now late 2023, and just about everyone is subscribed to Netflix and Hulu. But would you be surprised if I told you one of the most underrated streaming services around is Tubi? The upstart streamer has tons of new and old TV shows from every decade and every genre imaginable. Want to watch the buzziest series that aired on Max? Tubi has it. Are you feeling nostalgic about that old movie or cartoon you used to watch as a kid in the '80s or '90s? Chances are, Tubi has it.
Tubi has so much content that it can be hard to choose which shows and films are worth your time. Digital Trends is here to help you sort out which ones are worth watching. Even though the streaming service is free, time is valuable, and no one wants to waste it watching subpar content.
Entertainment Rather than waiting for the Thanksgiving holiday weekend, Apple TV+ and Netflix dropped two of their biggest shows of the fall this week. Netflix's The Crown kicked off its sixth and final season with four new episodes, while the Apple TV+ Godzilla-adjacent series Monarch: Legacy of Monster, dropped its first two episodes this week, with new episodes arriving weekly thereafter. Also this week, Scott Pilgrim Takes Off hits Netflix, while Max gets in on the act this week by premiering the second season of Julia.
Netflix, Amazon Prime Video, Hulu, Max, Apple TV+, Disney+, Paramount+, and Peacock still have new shows coming for the rest of November, including a handful arriving next week. But if you've been thinking about cutting back on your streaming bill, then perhaps you should consider signing up for the ad-supported tiers. In the meantime, keep reading for our weekly roundup of the best new shows to stream.
When you're done here, check out the best new movies to stream this week, as well as the best shows on Netflix, best shows on Hulu, best shows on Amazon Prime Video, and best shows on Disney+.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
