Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix F1 Live Stream Stranger Things Season 5 Best New Movies Most Popular Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney+ UFC Live Stream Best Movies on Disney+ Home Entertainment Guides 3 PBS shows you should watch in November By Blair Marnell Close Long before there were streaming services, PBS was bringing together programming from all over the world to go along with original documentaries, news programming, and scripted dramas. The best part is that PBS was — and continues to be — free of charge. You don’t need to be a PBS member to watch some of the best documentary programs that you can find, but it would definitely help these teams continue making the shows that you want to watch.
Frontline: 20 Days in Mariupol Rogue History: Ninjas Groundbreakers For this month, we’ve chosen the three PBS shows that you should watch in November, including a harrowing look at the war in Ukraine, an extremely enjoyable history of ninjas, and a documentary about the groundbreaking women’s sports rule Title IX, which paved the way for female athletes to get the spotlight that they deserve. For more PBS shows, you can check out our roundup of everything coming to PBS in November.
Frontline: 20 Days in Mariupol AP Photo/Mstyslav Chernov The war in Gaza may be dominating the press at the moment, but the Ukraine war continues on as well.
Frontline ‘s new documentary special, 20 Days in Mariupol , is a firsthand account of the Russian siege of Mariupol. Journalist Mstyslav Chernov and two other Associated Press reporters were in Mariupol when it was surrounded by Russian forces last year ahead of a relentless attack that devastated the city and brought it to its knees.
3 movies leaving Peacock in November you have to watch 5 best death game movies you should watch right now 3 TV shows on Tubi you should watch in November This is not a sanitized version of the carnage that followed, and the filmmakers have warned that this documentary contains footage that will be very hard to watch. It includes the aftermath of hospital bombings and horrific civilian injuries, as well as the documentary team’s escape from Mariupol before it completely fell to Russia.
Watch 20 Days in Mariupol on PBS/WGBH-TV on November 21.
Rogue History: Ninjas MGM Ninjas have been a popular trope of action movies for decades, but the reality of what ninjas actually represent isn’t nearly as well-known as the stereotypes associated with it. In this episode of Rogue History , viewers will get a crash course in the real history of ninjas. And they aren’t always the black-clad assassins that you’ve seen in film and television. In fact, the episode points out that wearing all-black uniforms would attract too much attention for actual ninjas. They had other ways of hiding in plain sight.
Although this episode is only 10 minutes, it covers a lot of ninja history, from Japan’s Edo period to their emergence in American pop culture in 1967 with the release of the James Bond movie You Only Live Twice.
 But once you hear what ninjas were really like at their peak, you may never see them the same way again.
Watch Rogue History: Ninjas on PBS.
Groundbreakers PBS It’s hard to believe that it’s only been 51 years since Title IX paved the way for women’s sports to get the same funding as men’s sports in public schools. That game-changing rule finally allowed female athletes to get their chance to shine in their own sports.
In the new documentary Groundbreakers , tennis legend Billie Jean King introduces viewers to the women who helped make Title IX possible, as well as the countless lives it changed by opening doors for women’s sports to become fully accepted.
Watch Groundbreakers on PBS on November 21.
Editors' Recommendations 3 movies and TV shows like the hit Max series Julia you should watch right now Don’t let these 3 November hidden streaming movie gems fly under your radar 3 dramas on Prime Video you need to watch in November 6 best TV shows you need to watch in December 3 sci-fi movies on Paramount+ you need to watch in November Entertainment November is chock-full of wonderful new shows you might have heard about already, including Monarch: Legacy of Monsters, the latest in the MonsterVerse featuring Godzilla and starring Kurt Russell, and the murder mystery A Murder at the End of the World starring The Crown's Emma Corrin. But as we head full force into the holiday season, there are plenty of other fabulous shows being released that aren’t talked about as much.
You won’t want to let these three hidden gem streaming TV shows fly under your radar in November, as all of them have been getting largely positive reviews so far.
Lawmen: Bass Reeves Lawmen: Bass Reeves | Official Trailer | Paramount+ Entertainment Who's in the mood for an action film? Netflix has an impressive slate of action films that only improves with the addition of new films every month. New arrivals include Liam Neeson's Cold Pursuit, David Fincher's The Killer, and Adam Wingard's Godzilla vs. Kong.
This November, we curated a list of three action movies you need to watch on Netflix. Our action picks include one of the best war movies ever made, an underrated Clint Eastwood thriller, and Michael Bay at his finest.
Saving Private Ryan (1998) Entertainment Generally, we tend to give streamers the benefit of the doubt when it comes to their film libraries. But there's no getting around the fact that the science fiction selection on Peacock is awful. For every Back to the Future, there are dozens of low-budget schlock-fests like Atlantic Rim, Lord of the Elves, and Dino King. Those are all real movies on Peacock, but they aren't worth your time. And unfortunately, there's nothing new on Peacock in November in the popular genre.
With such a thin selection to work with, it can be truly challenging to find sci-fi flicks on Peacock that are worth watching. But after an exhaustive search, we've come up with the following three sci-fi movies on Peacock that you need to watch in November.
Freejack (1992) Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
