Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix F1 Live Stream Stranger Things Season 5 Best New Movies Most Popular Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney+ UFC Live Stream Best Movies on Disney+ Home Entertainment Guides Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? 3 sci-fi movies on Hulu you need to watch in November By Blair Marnell Close Last month on Hulu was all about horror. But in November, the new titles on Hulu include three of the best sci-fi movies of the last decade or so. For fans of the genre, this is a special treat that shouldn’t be missed.
Edge of Tomorrow (2014) Pacific Rim (2013) Men in Black 3 (2012) This month, our picks include Tom Cruise in a film unlike any of his previous blockbusters, as well as a cult classic robots-versus-aliens movie, and the final installment of a cult-classic film trilogy. These are the three sci-fi movies on Hulu that you need to watch in November.
Edge of Tomorrow (2014) Warner Bros. Pictures There’s a simple reason why Edge of Tomorrow works so well. It’s because Tom Cruise’s character, Major William Cage, doesn’t start off the film as an all-powerful warrior with skill. Through sheer luck, Cage encounters an alien in battle who inadvertently gives him the power to relive the same day over and over again. Sgt. Rita Vrataski (Emily Blunt) was the last person to experience this phenomenon, which is why she takes Cage under her wing.
3 dramas on Prime Video you need to watch in November 3 sci-fi movies on Paramount+ you need to watch in November 3 action movies on Netflix you need to watch in November Thanks to Rita’s training, Cage becomes a truly formidable fighter. But to his horror, nothing Cage does ever seems to change the outcome of the battle. He can’t seem to change his own fate.
Watch Edge of Tomorrow on Hulu.
Pacific Rim (2013) Warner Bros. Pictures Pacific Rim is a movie that promises audiences a lot of giant robots punching giant alien monsters. And it more than delivers on that promise, with director and co-writer Guillermo del Toro capturing the flavor of Japanese monster flicks and anime. In the film, the future of humanity depends upon the Jaegers (giant robots) and their ability to fight the Kaiju, alien monsters that arrived on Earth through an undersea portal 10 years earlier.
Raleigh Becket (Charlie Hunnam) was once one of the best Jaeger pilots, and that’s why Marshal Stacker Pentecost (Idris Elba) needs Raleigh back in the saddle for Earth’s final push against the invaders. However, Jaegers require two pilots to fly, and the only suitable candidate for Raleigh’s next partner is Mako Mori (Rinko Kikuchi), a woman whose trauma at the hands of the Kaiju comes back to haunt her at inopportune times.
Watch Pacific Rim on Hulu.
Men in Black 3 (2012) Sony Pictures Men in Black 3 changes up the dynamic of the MiB trilogy while also serving as a sendoff for both Will Smith and Tommy Lee Jones. After a deadly alien called Boris the Animal (Jemaine Clement) changes the past and murders Agent K (Jones), Agent J follows him back in time to 1969. In this era, a much younger K (Josh Brolin) is still around, although he is initially skeptical of J’s claims of being from the future.
Eventually, J does manage to convince K about who he is and what the stakes are as they work together to preserve history and prevent the alien threat from dooming both K and planet Earth. J also learns a shocking secret from his past that completely reframes his relationship with his partner.
Watch Men in Black III on Hulu.
Editors' Recommendations Don’t let these 3 November hidden streaming movie gems fly under your radar 3 TV shows on Tubi you should watch in November 3 PBS shows you should watch in November 3 sci-fi movies on Peacock you need to watch in November 5 sci-fi movies on Netflix you need to watch in November Hulu Streaming Services Entertainment Action movies can get you amped up for a big day to come, or even out of a bad mood. They often feature high-speed chases, intense fight scenes, and maybe even a bit of sci-fi. They can be set just about anywhere and usually include great fight choreography and/or visual effects, sometimes even thought-provoking storylines when you dig deeper beneath the surface.
The best action movies on Prime Video include a diverse mix of titles, both old and new. When it comes to three action movies on Prime Video you need to watch in November, they all include A-list casts and one even spawned a franchise that is going strong after two decades.
V For Vendetta (2006) V For Vendetta (2005) Official Trailer #1 - Sc-Fi Thriller HD Entertainment Netflix is still king. Despite the increased competition from rival companies, Netflix remains the gold standard in streaming, with nearly 250 million subscribers. The most popular shows on Netflix include Stranger Things, Wednesday, and Squid Game. These shows dominate pop culture when a new season arrives on Netflix. However, plenty of good shows sneak under the radar and have developed passionate fanbases.
If you're looking for a new show in November, consider watching these three underrated gems on Netflix. Our selections include a cyberpunk crime thriller, a charming Christmas adventure, and a Western drama.
Altered Carbon (2018-2020) Entertainment If you're coming to Hulu for your action fix, then you've come to the right place. Hulu may be owned and operated by Disney, but this streaming service is about as far from the Mickey Mouse Club as you can get. Hulu has all of the R-rated action flicks that just wouldn't fit in at Disney+, Deadpool movies and Logan notwithstanding.
This month, two of our action picks are based on comic books, while the third is an all-timer in the action genre that won't be hanging around on Hulu for much longer. These are the three action movies on Hulu that you need to watch in November.
Blade II (2001) Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
