Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix F1 Live Stream Stranger Things Season 5 Best New Movies Most Popular Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney+ UFC Live Stream Best Movies on Disney+ Home Entertainment Guides Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? 3 sci-fi movies on Paramount+ you need to watch in November By Blair Marnell Close The Paramount+ selection of sci-fi movies is very thin in the month of November. That’s truly unfortunate for fans of the genre who can’t live on Star Trek movies alone. And frankly, it would get pretty boring if we had to pick one Star Trek film to recommend every month.
Event Horizon (1997) Deep Impact (1998) Virtuosity (1995) Unfortunately, in order to get to three sci-fi movies to watch on Paramount+ in November, we had to pick one from the higher tier, Paramount+ with Showtime. We prefer to avoid doing that, but if Paramount+ doesn’t improve its sci-fi selection next month, then we may have to do it again.
Event Horizon (1997) Paramount Event Horizon is one of the few films by director Paul W. S. Anderson that isn’t a video game adaptation. This flick has also earned a cult following for its blend of science fiction and horror. The Event Horizon is an advanced ship that was thought to be lost on its maiden voyage in space. When the ship returns, Captain S. J. Miller (Laurence Fishburne) and the crew of the Lewis and Clark are accompanied by the Event Horizon’s designer, Dr. William G. “Billy” Weir ( Jurassic Park ‘s Sam Neill), to discover what went wrong.
Don’t let these 3 November hidden streaming movie gems fly under your radar 3 TV shows on Tubi you should watch in November Don’t let these 3 hidden gem November streaming TV shows fly under your radar What they find is that the ship itself may be alive and sentient after its trip outside of the known universe. And the ship has brought back something evil that may not be contained now that fresh victims have arrived on board from the Lewis and Clark.
Watch Event Horizon on Paramount+ with Showtime.
Deep Impact (1998) Paramount Is it too much to call Deep Impact the thinking man’s Armageddon ? Both movies about killer celestial objects heading to Earth came out in the same year. Among the key differences between them, the harebrained scheme to blow up the comet fails in Deep Impact , leaving humanity helpless in the face of an extinction-level event.
A pre- Lord of the Rings Elijah Wood co-stars in the film as Leo Biederman, the amateur astronomer who discovered the comet. Now, humanity’s potential vanquisher shares his name. Morgan Freeman and Téa Leoni star as President Tom Beck and reporter Jenny Lerner, respectively. But the fate of the world may come down to Captain Spurgeon “Fish” Tanner (Robert Duvall), one of the surviving members of the team that tried to take out the comet.
Watch Deep Impact on Paramount+.
Virtuosity (1995) Paramount Prior to breaking out with L.A. Confidential , a young Russell Crowe appeared opposite Denzel Washington ( The Equalizer 3 ) in Virtuosity.
 In this near-future thriller, Washington plays Lt. Parker Barnes, a police officer who is languishing in prison for killing Matthew Grimes (Christopher Murray), the man who murdered his wife and child. But Barnes gets a chance for an early release when the virtual reality serial killer, SID 6.7 (Crowe), escapes from the virtual world and into a nearly unstoppable android body.
To make things even more personal for Barnes, SID 6.7 is also programed with the minds of several contemporary killers, including Grimes’ persona. That means Barnes will have to face his family’s killer one more time.
Watch Virtuosity on Paramount+.
Editors' Recommendations 3 movies leaving Peacock in November you have to watch 3 dramas on Prime Video you need to watch in November 6 best TV shows you need to watch in December 3 PBS shows you should watch in November 3 action movies on Netflix you need to watch in November Paramount+ Entertainment Generally, we tend to give streamers the benefit of the doubt when it comes to their film libraries. But there's no getting around the fact that the science fiction selection on Peacock is awful. For every Back to the Future, there are dozens of low-budget schlock-fests like Atlantic Rim, Lord of the Elves, and Dino King. Those are all real movies on Peacock, but they aren't worth your time. And unfortunately, there's nothing new on Peacock in November in the popular genre.
With such a thin selection to work with, it can be truly challenging to find sci-fi flicks on Peacock that are worth watching. But after an exhaustive search, we've come up with the following three sci-fi movies on Peacock that you need to watch in November.
Freejack (1992) Entertainment Sci-fi films never go out of style. From Alien and Back to the Future to Dune and Blade Runner, sci-fi films continue to improve thanks to new technology. Many sci-fi films find a home on Netflix and wind up on the streamer's 10 most popular movies list. Films like Don't Look Up, The Adam Project, and Bird Box are 10 of the most popular English films on Netflix ever.
The Adam Project is one of our picks for sci-fi movies to watch in November. Other selections include the epic sequel to Godzilla: King of the Monsters, and a sci-fi thriller about a pilot's fight for survival against the dinosaurs.
Godzilla vs. Kong (2021) Entertainment Last month on Hulu was all about horror. But in November, the new titles on Hulu include three of the best sci-fi movies of the last decade or so. For fans of the genre, this is a special treat that shouldn't be missed.
This month, our picks include Tom Cruise in a film unlike any of his previous blockbusters, as well as a cult classic robots-versus-aliens movie, and the final installment of a cult-classic film trilogy. These are the three sci-fi movies on Hulu that you need to watch in November.
Edge of Tomorrow (2014) Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
