Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix F1 Live Stream Stranger Things Season 5 Best New Movies Most Popular Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney+ UFC Live Stream Best Movies on Disney+ Home Entertainment Guides Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? 2023 Champions Classic live stream: watch college basketball for free By Dan Girolamo Close Four of the most accomplished teams in college basketball will convene for the State Farm 2023 Champions Classic. Debuting in 2011, the Champions Classic features Duke, Kansas, Kentucky, and Michigan State. No. 9 Duke (1-1) versus No. 18. Michigan State (1-1) will play in the first game, followed by No. 17 Kentucky (2-0) vs. No. 1 Kansas (2-0). Both games will be played at the United Center in Chicago, Illinois.
Watch the 2023 Champions Classic live stream on ESPN Watch the 2023 Champions Classic live stream on YouTube TV Watch the 2023 Champions Classic live stream on Hulu with Live TV Watch the 2023 Champions Classic live stream on Sling TV Watch the 2023 Champions Classic live stream on FuboTV Watch the 2023 Champions Classic live stream from abroad with a VPN The Champions Classic is a chance for college basketball fans to watch four of the premier programs in the sport. The event serves as an early-season litmus test for each team. In last year’s event, Kansas defeated Duke while Michigan State beat Kentucky, with the latter game going to double overtime.
Watch the 2023 Champions Classic live stream on ESPN Jordano53 / Wiki Commons Game 1 will air at 7 p.m. ET/6 p.m. ET, followed by Game 2 at 9:30 p.m.ET/8:30 CT on November 14.
 Both games will air on ESPN.
 Watch the game through the ESPN app or stream on ESPN.com.
 You must log in with a TV provider to watch both games.
Washington Huskies vs. Oregon State Beavers live stream: watch college football for free New York Jets vs. Las Vegas Raiders live stream: watch the NFL for free Michigan Wolverines vs. Penn State Nittany Lions live stream: watch college football for free Watch the 2023 Champions Classic live stream on YouTube TV Joe Maring / Digital Trends The ESPN family of networks is available to stream on YouTube TV.
 College basketball will air all season long on ESPN, ESPN2, ESPNews, and ESPNU. All four can be streamed on YouTube TV.
 For fans of the NFL, sign up for NFL Sunday Ticket , which is 50% off for the rest of the season. New customers will pay $51 per month for the first three months before the rate increases to $73 per month. However, YouTube TV offers a free trial to first-time users.
Watch the 2023 Champions Classic live stream on Hulu with Live TV Hulu Watch ESPN and other sports networks on Hulu with Live TV.
 ESPN is one of the 90+ channels available to stream with a subscription to Hulu with Live TV. Subscribers will pay $76 a month if they only want Hulu with Live TV. However, three bundle plans include Hulu , Disney+, and ESPN+. Subscribers can receive Hulu (with ads) + Live TV, Disney+ (with ads), and ESPN+ (with ads) for $77 per month. At $82 per month, customers gain access to Hulu (with ads) + Live TV, Disney+ (no ads), and ESPN+ (with ads). Finally, a $90 per month plan consists of Hulu (no ads) + Live TV, Disney+ (no ads), and ESPN+ (with ads).
Watch the 2023 Champions Classic live stream on Sling TV Digital Trends With channel lineup customization and flexibility, Sling TV is one of the best live TV streaming services.
 Sling Orange costs $40/month and includes ESPN, ESPN2, and 30 more channels. Meanwhile, Sling Blue costs $45 a month and features 40+ channels, with local broadcasts of ABC, NBC, and Fox. Customers can purchase Sling Orange + Blue for $60 per month. New customers will receive 50% off for the first month.
Watch the 2023 Champions Classic live stream on FuboTV Phil Nickinson/Digital Trends For customers who want access to over 200 channels, FuboTV is their best option.
FuboTV offers subscribers a choice of Fubo Pro at $75 per month, Fubo Elite at $85 per month, and Premiere at $95 a month. Now is a great time to sign up because FuboTV offers a free trial and $20 off for the first two months.
Watch the 2023 Champions Classic live stream from abroad with a VPN NordVPN Streaming while traveling to another country can be difficult. Don’t risk running into potential problems. Download a VPN service like NordVPN. Use a VPN with your streaming service to bypass geographic restrictions, allowing for a better overall experience. Plus, VPNs add more security to your connection, which is never a bad thing when using a foreign connection.
Try NordVPN for one month and receive a 30-day money back guarantee if you don’t like it.
Editors' Recommendations Georgia Bulldogs vs. Tennessee Volunteers live stream: watch college football for free 2023 Feast Week live stream: watch Thanksgiving college basketball for free USC Trojans vs. Oregon Ducks live stream: watch college football for free Los Angeles Clippers vs. Dallas Mavericks live stream: watch the NBA for free Arizona Wildcats vs. Duke Blue Devils live stream: watch college basketball for free Entertainment What's so great about this new era of digital content and livestreaming opportunities is that you can watch from virtually anywhere. Yes, you can sit down in your living room and watch on your main TV, but also, if you're out running errands, you could watch from your phone or tablet, or if you're away on a business trip, you can even start watching on your laptop. Being able to stream content online, whether live or recorded, completely changes the entertainment game. It has also transformed the wide world of sports, including boxing, mixed martial arts, soccer, and basketball. For example, it's possible to watch NCAA basketball anywhere from online, or watch the FIBA Women's Basketball World Cup online, as well, sometimes even for free. So, most assuredly, it's possible to watch an NBA live stream online for select games.
When you want to watch NBA basketball, from anywhere in the world, online, you have a few different options. It really depends on where the game is being broadcast live, as certain networks own the rights to various games, and offer livestreams exclusively through proprietary or partner services. The EFL Cup in soccer is only available through ESPN+ in the United States, for instance. NBA games are sometimes broadcast on TNT, NBA TV, NBA League Pass, ESPN, ABC, and a bevy of other cable channels, with just as much variety when it comes to watching those events online. If you're looking to catch the latest NBA games, don't fret, it may seem complicated but we're going to break it all down for you. Keep reading to see the best places to watch NBA games online, from anywhere in the world.
The best way to watch NBA basketball Watch NBA Basketball on Sling TV Entertainment Newcastle takes on Dortmund today with Newcastle coming off the back of a great 1-0 victory over Arsenal in the Premier League last weekend. The downside for the England side? When they met Dortmund in October, they lost 1-0 so there's a certain amount of vengeance here. Whoever you're backing, the two closely matched sides are sure to be appealing. We've got all you need to know about how to watch Dortmund vs Newcastle online. Whether you're based in the US, UK, Canada, or Australia, we're here to help.
What time is Dortmund vs Newcastle? Dortmund vs Newcastle kicks off at Dortmund's stadium -- Signal Iduna Park -- on Tuesday November 7. Kick off time is 12.45PM ET/9.45AM PT/5.45PM GMT with the game kicking off at 4.45AM AEDT November 8 in Australia.
How to watch Dortmund vs Newcastle in the US In the US, Paramount Plus hosts all the Champions League games in the US for this season. It's a smaller streaming service than some of the others, but it has a growing selection of sports events so it's great for fans of soccer and more. Alongside that, it's a good idea to keep on top of what's new on Paramount Plus with many movies and TV shows added regularly. Even better, if you solely want to watch Dortmund vs Newcastle, you can do so for free thanks to a Paramount Plus free trial. It lasts for seven days and gives you full access to the streaming service so you can see what it offers that might appeal to you, alongside the Champions League.
How to watch Dortmund vs Newcastle in the UK In the UK, TNT Sports is where to go to see the Champions League. It was formerly called BT Sports so if you previously had access to that service, you'll have access to TNT Sports. Otherwise, it's available through Discovery+ Premium. The service costs £29.99 per month with it also available through Amazon Prime if you prefer to sign up that way. There's no Discovery+ Premium free trial available but you can sign up on a 30-day rolling contract so you're not tied in.
Entertainment AC Milan vs PSG looks like it's going to be a pretty close game in the Champions League group stages. Both teams are well matched so it should be an exciting game for fans or neutrals to enjoy today. While AC Milan have been struggling to win in the Champions League lately, the team is still a force to be reckoned with, and PSG is always a tough one to beat. If you want to see how the match unfolds live, we've got all the answers you need on how to watch the Champions League game online. That goes for whether you're in the US, UK, Canada, or Australia.
What time is AC Milan vs PSG? AC Milan vs PSG takes place at the San Siro stadium in Milan, Italy. It kicks off at 3PM ET/12PM PT/8PM GMT on Tuesday November 7. Due to timezones, that means the Australian time will be 1AM AEDT on Wednesday November 8.
How to watch AC Milan vs PSG in the US Paramount Plus is the home of all things Champions League in the US. While it's a little smaller than other streaming services, it's an ideal outlet for sports fans to check out. It's worth checking out what's new on Paramount Plus while you're at it. Paramount Plus costs $6 a month for the Essential plan or $12 a month for the Premium plan. If you're solely interested in watching AC Milan vs PSG, you can do so for free via a Paramount Plus free trial which gives you free and full access to the service for seven days.
How to watch AC Milan vs PSG in the UK TNT Sports is the home of the Champions League in the UK. Formerly known as BT Sports, the UK streaming service is available through Discovery+ Premium monthly pass for £29.99 a month. You can also sign up via Amazon Prime if you find this method more convenient. Currently, there's no Discovery+ Premium free trial but you can sign up for the service on a 30-day rolling contract basis so you don't have to commit to a long period of time.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
