Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Windows 12 GTA 5 Cheats Wordle Today iPhone 15 Deals Upcoming Movies Nintendo Switch 2 NYT Connections Today Google Pixel 8 Pro Review Home Gaming Guides Persona 5 Tactica: 6 tips and tricks to get started By Jess Reyes Close Persona 5 Tactica is a more forgiving strategy game than the likes of Fire Emblem.
 That doesn’t mean you can slack on the strategy in this latest Persona 5 spinoff, though. It purposefully sets up a system where you can squeeze more out of every turn with mechanics like One More and Triple Threat, which can up your damage way more than your character could manage on their own.
Get that One More turn from harassing enemies The Triple Threat triangle is worth focusing on (most of the time) Keep close to the walls whenever possible Equip Personas with healing and passives you can’t get from skill trees Hold off on buying all the guns from the shop You can reset your skill tree, so go wild The finer details of these mechanics might not be obvious right away. And all the skills and Personas can be overwhelming to balance at first, too. To help, we offer these tips, including how to focus on the best skills and spend money wisely, so that you can better understand the gameplay and optimize your Tactica playthrough.
Get that One More turn from harassing enemies Image used with permission by copyright holder Persona 5 Tactica teaches you early on about positional weaknesses and encourages you to take advantage. You can gain “One More” turn from gunning down enemies standing in the open, similar to the extra turn you get in Persona 5 from hitting an elemental weakness. Once the enemy is out in the open or no longer clinging to the wall, you can follow up with one of your allies to get another turn out of them. A “Get ‘Em!!” prompt should appear above the enemy’s head if your attack will trigger a One More.
Got a PS5? Here’s how to get 6 free months of Apple Music New PS5 models are getting their own console covers, but old ones aren’t compatible This deal gets you a PS5 for less than $470 Enemies are usually smart enough by hug walls on default, so you need to throw them out into the open with melee attacks and spells like Garu. Later on, you can also trip them up with Vortex or Hypno skills to get them out into the open. It might seem for naught if you need to sacrifice one character’s turn to set up another’s. However, a Triple Threat (All-Out Attack) is the goal.
The Triple Threat triangle is worth focusing on (most of the time) I used to finagle with getting Triple Threat, an all-out attack that deals heavy damage to all enemies within it, to pop up once any particular character earned a One More. You can typically activate the Triple Threat with three characters standing in a triangle formation across the map. The triangle sets on fire and the character that activated the One More receives the prompt to let it loose. However, it sometimes wouldn’t work for reasons I didn’t understand.
If you can’t catch an enemy within the triangle, you might as well use that extra turn on something else.
Keep close to the walls whenever possible Image used with permission by copyright holder Tutorials already cover positional advantages. Still, I found that I forgot to keep characters close to walls mid-playthrough. It’s easy to dismiss how important it is to cover yourself in the early stages when combat isn’t as difficult, but it starts to add up later when more maps will surround you with enemies that can pummel you with additional turns.
Standing against even one wall or edge should help. Even the short boxes that don’t look like they should be able to block any bullets will at least lessen the damage. There should be a black-an-white shield icon with a red (guaranteed block on one side) or yellow (guaranteed “resist”) border around it to confirm how safe you will be. Damage adds up without that protection from wall hugging, plus there’s the extra turn enemies can get from exploiting that. Speaking of which … Equip Personas with healing and passives you can’t get from skill trees You can rely on teammates for elemental damage, but healing and passive boosts are another story. Sure, some teammates like Mona and Erina have healing built into their skill trees. However, Personas make it so that anyone can heal teammates in a pinch. Bonus points if they have a passive like granting teammates more XP or money when defeating enemies.
Passives also include offensive types like Finishing Blow, which increases damage dealt to Downed enemies, and defensive types like Iron Body, which decreases damage from enemies after two attacks to prevent them from dogpiling one unit. There’s even one that grants SP for every enemy you defeat. Play around with these perks, especially to complement your skill tree.
Hold off on buying all the guns from the shop Image used with permission by copyright holder In the beginning, the only way to get new weapons is from the Weapons Shop. Each unit has two weapons available upfront after they become a playable character. One of these weapons upgrades your damage without upgrading your range and the other one upgrades your range without upgrading damage as much. It can be tempting to buy both weapons so that your character has a more versatile arsenal for mixing and matching loadouts for different maps. However, you only need to buy one of these guns. You might need to buy one more before the third chapter of the game, but after that, there’s no need for the shop anymore.
You later gain the ability to fuse Personas into stronger weapons that can inflict status effects, something that shop weapons can’t do. These can cost as much as weapons in the shop, but offer much more for a similar price. It costs much less if you already have Personas available for crafting. The Weapons Shop will ultimately become useless, so save that money for Personas! You can reset your skill tree, so go wild You can reset your skill tree as many times as you want, whenever you want. If you ever regret the abilities you chose to focus on or want to give a unit a particular skill before tackling a map, you can just reset your skill tree and select any of the skills you have enough Growth Points (GP) to buy. You can’t get more GP from doing this, but it does return all the points you used to unlock skills in the past and lets you start anew.
Persona 5 Tactica is available for PC, PlayStation 4, PlayStation 5, Xbox One, Xbox Series X|S, and Nintendo Switch.
Editors' Recommendations How to respec in Persona 5 Tactica Cities: Skylines II beginner’s guide: tips and tricks to get started PlayStation 5 is getting a slimmer (but not cheaper) redesign next month Persona 5 Tactica is making the tactics genre more approachable than ever PS5 finally gets Dolby Atmos device support in latest system software beta How-To Guides Gaming The Xbox home screen is getting a face-lift. Starting today, Microsoft will begin rolling out a freshly redesigned Xbox home interface across Xbox One, Series S, and Series X consoles.
If you're an Xbox owner, you're probably used to the consoles' current design that features a row of recently used apps at the top of the screen and a list of widgets below. Microsoft says it looked at user data and feedback from the Xbox community to create a redesigned experience that's more focused on discovery.
Gaming Fortnite is one of the biggest names in gaming, and it's quite easy to understand how it became a global phenomenon. The beloved battle royale is overflowing with things to do, and weekly updates ensure that there are always new weapons and items to engage with, fresh locales to visit on its ever-changing map, and plenty of XP to earn via daily and weekly challenges.
With so much to keep players coming back for more, you can be certain finding a lobby filled with other folks is an easy thing to do. But you've also probably noticed that many matches -- particularly in lower and mid-tier lobbies -- mix bots in with real players. This helps to fill out lobbies faster so you can get in and play consistently, and it also serves as a way to ensure that everyone in the match has a few opportunities to eliminate some baddies regardless of their skill level.
Gaming Atlus revealed Persona 3 Reload, a remake of the 2006 Persona 3 game, as well as Persona 5 Tactica, a strategy game title, during the Xbox Games Showcase.
The former is set for an early 2024 release, while the latter will launch on November 17. Both games will be included in Xbox Game Pass. Persona 3 Reload is a full remake in the style of Persona 5, while Persona 5 Tactica is a tactics-like game with Chibi-like cartoon graphics similar to the Persona Q and Q2 games released for Nintendo 3DS.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
