Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix F1 Live Stream Stranger Things Season 5 Best New Movies Most Popular Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney+ UFC Live Stream Best Movies on Disney+ Home Entertainment Guides Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? New York Jets vs. Las Vegas Raiders live stream: watch the NFL for free By Dan Girolamo Close Sin City hosts Sunday Night Football as the Las Vegas Raiders (4-5) welcome the New York Jets (4-4) to Allegiant Stadium in Week 10. The game will start at 8:20 p.m. ET/5:20 p.m. PT on November 12.
 Mike Tirico, Cris Collinsworth, and Melissa Stark are on the call for NBC , and the game will also stream on Peacock.
Watch the Jets vs. Raiders live stream on Sling TV Watch the Jets vs. Raiders live stream from abroad with a VPN Despite their mediocre records, the Jets and Raiders are hunting for a Wild Card spot in the AFC. The Jets must improve their offense if they want any shot at the postseason. The Jets have a league-worst eight offensive touchdowns on the season. For Las Vegas, the Raiders fired head coach Josh McDaniels before Week 9 and promoted Antonio Pierce to interim coach. The Raiders responded by beating the Giants 30-6.
Sunday’s game between the Jets and Raiders may not be the prettiest sight because of how much these offenses have struggled. However, the playoff implications add a much-needed layer of intrigue. Watching games that matter is all you can ask for this late in the season. Speaking of watching games, a cable subscription is not the only option for viewing Jets versus Raiders. Live streaming TV services, such as Sling TV , serve as excellent alternatives to cable. Keep reading to find out more information about Sling TV.
Washington Huskies vs. Oregon State Beavers live stream: watch college football for free USC Trojans vs. Oregon Ducks live stream: watch college football for free Los Angeles Clippers vs. Dallas Mavericks live stream: watch the NBA for free Watch the Jets vs. Raiders live stream on Sling TV Phil Nickinson / Digital Trends As one of the best live TV streaming services , Sling TV prides itself on flexibility and customization. You can choose the channel lineup that best fits your needs, as well as upgrade, downgrade, or cancel your membership at any time. You can also watch your favorite shows and movies on the go with the Sling mobile app.
Sling Orange and Sling Blue are two of the plans offered to customers. Sling Orange, which costs $40/month, features 32 channels, including TNT, MotorTrend, QVC, Freeform, and ESPN. Meanwhile, Sling Blue, which costs $45/month, offers 42 channels such as Bravo, Discovery Channel, NBC, Syfy, and TLC. If you can’t decide, bundle both services for $60/month. For the first month, Sling TV slashes the price by 50%.
Watch the Jets vs. Raiders live stream from abroad with a VPN NordVPN Fans of the Jets and Raiders know the importance of Sunday night’s game. A win means more hope, while a loss brings doom and gloom to the franchise. If you are traveling during the game or plan to watch while abroad, then you know streaming can be difficult. Regional broadcast restrictions negatively affect the streaming experience. To rid yourself of these problems, download a VPN service.
Our choice for the best VPN is NordVPN, which can be used alongside Sling TV. NordVPN will use another server to trick your connection into thinking it’s streaming from the U.S. This alleviates those aforementioned geographic restrictions. There is no penalty to try NordVPN because customers can receive a 30-day money-back guarantee.
Editors' Recommendations Georgia Bulldogs vs. Tennessee Volunteers live stream: watch college football for free 2023 Feast Week live stream: watch Thanksgiving college basketball for free Michigan Wolverines vs. Penn State Nittany Lions live stream: watch college football for free Arizona Wildcats vs. Duke Blue Devils live stream: watch college basketball for free Man City vs Young Boys live stream: Can you watch for free? Entertainment Newcastle takes on Dortmund today with Newcastle coming off the back of a great 1-0 victory over Arsenal in the Premier League last weekend. The downside for the England side? When they met Dortmund in October, they lost 1-0 so there's a certain amount of vengeance here. Whoever you're backing, the two closely matched sides are sure to be appealing. We've got all you need to know about how to watch Dortmund vs Newcastle online. Whether you're based in the US, UK, Canada, or Australia, we're here to help.
What time is Dortmund vs Newcastle? Dortmund vs Newcastle kicks off at Dortmund's stadium -- Signal Iduna Park -- on Tuesday November 7. Kick off time is 12.45PM ET/9.45AM PT/5.45PM GMT with the game kicking off at 4.45AM AEDT November 8 in Australia.
How to watch Dortmund vs Newcastle in the US In the US, Paramount Plus hosts all the Champions League games in the US for this season. It's a smaller streaming service than some of the others, but it has a growing selection of sports events so it's great for fans of soccer and more. Alongside that, it's a good idea to keep on top of what's new on Paramount Plus with many movies and TV shows added regularly. Even better, if you solely want to watch Dortmund vs Newcastle, you can do so for free thanks to a Paramount Plus free trial. It lasts for seven days and gives you full access to the streaming service so you can see what it offers that might appeal to you, alongside the Champions League.
How to watch Dortmund vs Newcastle in the UK In the UK, TNT Sports is where to go to see the Champions League. It was formerly called BT Sports so if you previously had access to that service, you'll have access to TNT Sports. Otherwise, it's available through Discovery+ Premium. The service costs £29.99 per month with it also available through Amazon Prime if you prefer to sign up that way. There's no Discovery+ Premium free trial available but you can sign up on a 30-day rolling contract so you're not tied in.
Entertainment AC Milan vs PSG looks like it's going to be a pretty close game in the Champions League group stages. Both teams are well matched so it should be an exciting game for fans or neutrals to enjoy today. While AC Milan have been struggling to win in the Champions League lately, the team is still a force to be reckoned with, and PSG is always a tough one to beat. If you want to see how the match unfolds live, we've got all the answers you need on how to watch the Champions League game online. That goes for whether you're in the US, UK, Canada, or Australia.
What time is AC Milan vs PSG? AC Milan vs PSG takes place at the San Siro stadium in Milan, Italy. It kicks off at 3PM ET/12PM PT/8PM GMT on Tuesday November 7. Due to timezones, that means the Australian time will be 1AM AEDT on Wednesday November 8.
How to watch AC Milan vs PSG in the US Paramount Plus is the home of all things Champions League in the US. While it's a little smaller than other streaming services, it's an ideal outlet for sports fans to check out. It's worth checking out what's new on Paramount Plus while you're at it. Paramount Plus costs $6 a month for the Essential plan or $12 a month for the Premium plan. If you're solely interested in watching AC Milan vs PSG, you can do so for free via a Paramount Plus free trial which gives you free and full access to the service for seven days.
How to watch AC Milan vs PSG in the UK TNT Sports is the home of the Champions League in the UK. Formerly known as BT Sports, the UK streaming service is available through Discovery+ Premium monthly pass for £29.99 a month. You can also sign up via Amazon Prime if you find this method more convenient. Currently, there's no Discovery+ Premium free trial but you can sign up for the service on a 30-day rolling contract basis so you don't have to commit to a long period of time.
Entertainment The best game in the NFC on Sunday afternoon will be in Philadelphia when the Eagles play host to the Dallas Cowboys at Lincoln Financial Field. The game kicks off at 4:25 p.m. ET/1:25 p.m. PT on November 5. Kevin Burkhardt and Greg Olsen will call the game from the booth for Fox, with Erin Andrews and Tom Rinaldi reporting from the sidelines.
The Cowboys (5-2) are out to prove they belong in the discussion of the best team in the NFC. Dallas has not beaten an NFC team with a record above .500 this season. It will have that chance on Sunday against the Eagles (7-1), who sit at the top of the NFC with one loss. The Eagles are arguably the most complete team in the NFL and have a great chance to represent the NFC in the Super Bowl for the second straight season.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
