Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: UFC Live Stream Watch NBA Basketball F1 Live Stream Watch Premier League Watch The Golf Channel Watch NCAA Basketball Watch Champions League Home Entertainment Guides Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? How to watch NBA basketball from anywhere for free By Briley Kenney Close What’s so great about this new era of digital content and livestreaming opportunities is that you can watch from virtually anywhere. Yes, you can sit down in your living room and watch on your main TV, but also, if you’re out running errands, you could watch from your phone or tablet, or if you’re away on a business trip, you can even start watching on your laptop. Being able to stream content online, whether live or recorded, completely changes the entertainment game. It has also transformed the wide world of sports, including boxing, mixed martial arts, soccer, and basketball. For example, it’s possible to watch NCAA basketball anywhere from online, or watch the FIBA Women’s Basketball World Cup online, as well, sometimes even for free. So, most assuredly, it’s possible to watch an NBA live stream online for select games.
The best way to watch NBA basketball Other ways to watch NBA basketball Watch NBA Basketball From Abroad with a VPN When you want to watch NBA basketball, from anywhere in the world, online, you have a few different options. It really depends on where the game is being broadcast live, as certain networks own the rights to various games, and offer livestreams exclusively through proprietary or partner services. The EFL Cup in soccer is only available through ESPN+ in the United States, for instance. NBA games are sometimes broadcast on TNT, NBA TV, NBA League Pass, ESPN, ABC, and a bevy of other cable channels, with just as much variety when it comes to watching those events online. If you’re looking to catch the latest NBA games, don’t fret, it may seem complicated but we’re going to break it all down for you. Keep reading to see the best places to watch NBA games online, from anywhere in the world.
The best way to watch NBA basketball Watch NBA Basketball on Sling TV Digital Trends As most NBA games are broadcast live on networks like TNT, ESPN, NBA TV, ESPN3, and ABC, you’ll be able to watch NBA live stream content through Sling TV. In fact, you have a couple of options, one more affordable and the other more comprehensive. Starting at $15 per month, you can subscribe to Sling TV’s NBA League Pass package, which allows you to access and watch every national game, and every out-of-market game, with a few blackout restrictions. You’ll also get 31 channels including NBA TV, and individual team channels. The other option, and more comprehensive solution, is Sling Orange at $40 per month, discounted to $20 for your first month for new subscribers. With Orange, you get access to 31 live cable TV channels like ESPN, TNT, TBS, CNN, HGTV, and many many more. It expands your potential entertainment outside of NBA basketball, including to other live sports. While there is no Sling TV free trial , you can sign up to access the free service, but content is limited.
Other ways to watch NBA basketball Watch NBA Basketball on FuboTV Phil Nickinson/Digital Trends Our top recommendation for watching NBA basketball anywhere online, and most other sports, is FuboTV.
 Once you subscribe, you’ll have access to a huge selection of cable TV channels, not just sports or NBA-focused ones. Plus, you can watch from any compatible device, online, anywhere, including your mobile, tablet, smart TVs, and much more. We haven’t even gotten to the best part yet. Because there is a FuboTV free trial , new subscribers can sign up, for free, and watch for an entire month. That’s right, you get a whole month free, including to watch live sports like NBA basketball games. It doesn’t get any better than that folks.
Watch NBA Basketball on Sling TV Digital Trends As most NBA games are broadcast live on networks like TNT, ESPN, NBA TV, ESPN3, and ABC, you’ll be able to watch NBA live stream content through Sling TV. In fact, you have a couple of options, one more affordable and the other more comprehensive. Starting at $15 per month, you can subscribe to Sling TV’s NBA League Pass package, which allows you to access and watch every national game, and every out-of-market game, with a few blackout restrictions. You’ll also get 31 channels including NBA TV, and individual team channels. The other option, and more comprehensive solution, is Sling Orange at $40 per month, discounted to $20 for your first month for new subscribers. With Orange, you get access to 31 live cable TV channels like ESPN, TNT, TBS, CNN, HGTV, and many many more. It expands your potential entertainment outside of NBA basketball, including to other live sports. While there is no Sling TV free trial , you can sign up to access the free service, but content is limited.
Watch NBA Basketball on Hulu with Live TV Phil Nickinson/Digital Trends Hulu’s version of live streaming TV is aptly named Hulu with Live TV.
 While it is slightly different than the standard Hulu, and Hulu does have a free trial , the live service arm does not.
 The good news is that you can watch live sports, including NBA basketball games on Hulu with Live TV, plus you get access to over 85 live cable channels including ABC, CBS, FOX, NBC, ESPN, TNT, and beyond. The Hulu with Live TV plan is $70 per month, allowing up to two simultaneous streams at once, from any device. There is an unlimited screens option that you can add-on if you need to stream from more devices than that all at once.
Watch NBA Basketball on YouTube with Live TV YouTube TV Similar to some of the other services, YouTube TV , or YouTube with Live TV, allows you to watch live cable channels online, from anywhere. Because it provides access to channels that broadcast NBA basketball games, you can also use it to watch NBA live stream content. With a subscription, you can access over 100 channels, including FOX, ESPN, CNN, TNT, ABC. You can also add-on channels like the NBA League Pass to make sure you never miss any games due to blackout restrictions. YouTube TV starts at $65 per month for over 100 channels, including NFL and NBA networks, with unlimited DVR space to record live broadcasts if you can’t be there to watch. The base plan is available for $55 for your first three months for new subscribers, which is a discount of $10.
Watch NBA Basketball From Abroad with a VPN NordVPN Traveling abroad, away from your home country? You may run into a snag when trying to watch NBA basketball online. Some services, like FuboTV, ESPN, and Sling TV, region-lock access based on your current IP address. Since your IP is assigned when you connect to the internet, generally from where you’re located, you might find yourself unable to watch your favorite team tear up the court. There is a workaround, and it’s both easy to setup, and free if you’re a new subscriber.
Washington Huskies vs. Oregon State Beavers live stream: watch college football for free 3 TV shows on Tubi you should watch in November 2023 Champions Classic live stream: watch college basketball for free To watch NBA basketball abroad, you’ll need a VPN or virtual private network.
 Our top recommend for exactly this is NordVPN, which will assign you an IP in the country of your choosing, in this case the United States, allowing you to mask your current IP. The best part is that there is a NordVPN free trial you can use, for up to a month totally free. With access, you’ll be better protected, as the masked IP helps protect your anonymity and privacy while browsing online, and you’ll be able to watch services that would otherwise be restricted like FuboTV. That way, you can watch NBA live stream content from anywhere in the world.
Editors' Recommendations Georgia Bulldogs vs. Tennessee Volunteers live stream: watch college football for free 2023 Feast Week live stream: watch Thanksgiving college basketball for free 6 best TV shows you need to watch in December 5 sci-fi movies on Netflix you need to watch in November New York Jets vs. Las Vegas Raiders live stream: watch the NFL for free Entertainment College football doesn't get much better than a night game at Autzen Stadium in Eugene, Oregon. The No. 6 Oregon Ducks (8-1) will host the USC Trojans (7-3) in a Pac-12 rivalry game on Saturday night. The opening kickoff is scheduled for 10:30 p.m. ET/7:30 p.m. PT on November 11. Tim Brando, Spencer Tillman, and Josh Sims will call the game on Fox.
USC and Oregon are two teams heading in different directions. USC has lost three of their last four games and will likely not qualify for the Pac-12 Championship in Las Vegas. Meanwhile, Oregon remains one of the best teams in the country, with their only blemish coming on the road in a three-point loss to Washington. If Oregon wins out, they will likely have their rematch with Washington in the conference championship.
Entertainment All eyes will be on the No. 3 Michigan Wolverines (9-0) on Saturday when they travel to Happy Valley to play the No. 10 Penn State Nittany Lions in front of what's expected to be a rowdy crowd at Beaver Stadium. The game will be on Fox at noon ET on November 11. Fox's Big Noon Kickoff will preview the day's games starting at 10 a.m. ET on Fox. Gus Johnson (play-by-play), Joel Klatt (analyst), and Jenny Taft (reporter) will be on the call for Michigan versus Penn State.
Michigan is the most-talked-about team in college football for reasons off the field. The Wolverines have been accused of illegally stealing signs from their competition. An investigation is currently underway. The University of Michigan has expressed its support for head coach Jim Harbaugh. However, the NCAA and Big Ten are determining when and how they should discipline the team. Will Harbaugh be fined and suspended? Will Michigan have to forfeit their postseason eligibility? Keep in mind: Michigan is in the hunt for a National Championship and must beat Penn State if they want any shot at the playoff.
Entertainment Friday night marks the return of the NBA In-Season Tournament as group play will feature Kawhi Leonard and the Los Angeles Clippers traveling to Texas to face Luka Doncic and the Dallas Mavericks inside American Airlines Center. The game is scheduled for 8:30 p.m. ET/7:30 p.m. CT on November 10. The Clippers and Mavericks are two of the five teams in West: Group B. Friday's matchup marks Los Angeles' first game in group play. The Mavericks, however, are 0-1 in the group stages after losing 125-114 to the Denver Nuggets.
Clippers versus Mavericks is a local game, so fans in the Los Angeles and Dallas markets can watch on over-the-air TV stations. Los Angeles residents can watch on Bally Sports SoCal, and Dallas inhabitants can see the game on Bally Sports Southwest. For fans across the country, the best way to watch the game is on NBA League Pass, which streams nearly every game on the schedule. NBA fans can purchase League Pass through the streaming television service Sling TV. Find out more information on how to watch NBA games from anywhere with Sling TV below.
Watch the Clippers vs. Mavericks live stream on Sling TV Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
