Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix F1 Live Stream Stranger Things Season 5 Best New Movies Most Popular Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney+ UFC Live Stream Best Movies on Disney+ Home Entertainment Guides Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? USC Trojans vs. Oregon Ducks live stream: watch college football for free By Dan Girolamo Close College football doesn’t get much better than a night game at Autzen Stadium in Eugene, Oregon. The No. 6 Oregon Ducks (8-1) will host the USC Trojans (7-3) in a Pac-12 rivalry game on Saturday night. The opening kickoff is scheduled for 10:30 p.m. ET/7:30 p.m. PT on November 11.
 Tim Brando, Spencer Tillman, and Josh Sims will call the game on Fox.
Watch the USC vs. Oregon live stream on Sling TV Watch the USC vs. Oregon live stream from abroad with a VPN USC and Oregon are two teams heading in different directions. USC has lost three of their last four games and will likely not qualify for the Pac-12 Championship in Las Vegas. Meanwhile, Oregon remains one of the best teams in the country, with their only blemish coming on the road in a three-point loss to Washington. If Oregon wins out, they will likely have their rematch with Washington in the conference championship.
Because of how these two teams are playing at the moment, there’s a chance Oregon will blow out USC. The Trojans cannot stop anyone on defense, and Oregon boasts one of the best offenses in the country. That’s a recipe for a lopsided victory. Yet, it’s not guaranteed, so fans must tune into Fox on Saturday night to see what happens. If you do not own a cable box, then consider alternative options to watch the game. One of the best options is Sling TV , a live-streaming television service. Scroll below for information on how to watch Fox with Sling TV.
2023 Champions Classic live stream: watch college basketball for free Michigan Wolverines vs. Penn State Nittany Lions live stream: watch college football for free Arizona Wildcats vs. Duke Blue Devils live stream: watch college basketball for free Watch the USC vs. Oregon live stream on Sling TV Digital Trends Sling TV is one of the best live TV streaming services.
 It also happens to be the third-largest live streaming service in the U.S.
Sling TV is live television made easy. Customers only pay for the channels they want, which will save money since they won’t have to pay for unwanted programs.
Sling TV offers Sling Orange and Sling Blue. At $40/month, Sling Orange has 32 channels, including seven exclusive sports and family channels such as ESPN and Disney. Sling Blue costs $45/month and contains 42 total channels. Among those channels, 17 are exclusive news and entertainment channels, including Fox, FX, FS1, and NFL Network. Customers can pay $60/month for Sling Orange + Blue. However, the first month is 50% off for new subscribers.
Watch the USC vs. Oregon live stream from abroad with a VPN NordVPN Oregon and Washington appear to be on a collision course for a rematch in Las Vegas. However, USC will do its best to play spoiler. If you will be traveling during the game and plan to watch, you probably know it can be difficult to access a streaming service. Geo-restrictions add unnecessary limitations to your experience. To combat these issues, download one of the best VPNs on the market, NordVPN.
Pick a server with NordVPN and watch it trick your connection into thinking you’re streaming from home. This allows you to stream USC versus Oregon from anywhere. Plus, NordVPN can be running while using Sling TV.
Try NordVPN , and if you don’t like the results, use your 30-day money-back guarantee.
Editors' Recommendations 2023 Feast Week live stream: watch Thanksgiving college basketball for free New York Jets vs. Las Vegas Raiders live stream: watch the NFL for free Los Angeles Clippers vs. Dallas Mavericks live stream: watch the NBA for free Man City vs Young Boys live stream: Can you watch for free? Dortmund vs Newcastle live stream: Can you watch for free? Entertainment AC Milan vs PSG looks like it's going to be a pretty close game in the Champions League group stages. Both teams are well matched so it should be an exciting game for fans or neutrals to enjoy today. While AC Milan have been struggling to win in the Champions League lately, the team is still a force to be reckoned with, and PSG is always a tough one to beat. If you want to see how the match unfolds live, we've got all the answers you need on how to watch the Champions League game online. That goes for whether you're in the US, UK, Canada, or Australia.
What time is AC Milan vs PSG? AC Milan vs PSG takes place at the San Siro stadium in Milan, Italy. It kicks off at 3PM ET/12PM PT/8PM GMT on Tuesday November 7. Due to timezones, that means the Australian time will be 1AM AEDT on Wednesday November 8.
How to watch AC Milan vs PSG in the US Paramount Plus is the home of all things Champions League in the US. While it's a little smaller than other streaming services, it's an ideal outlet for sports fans to check out. It's worth checking out what's new on Paramount Plus while you're at it. Paramount Plus costs $6 a month for the Essential plan or $12 a month for the Premium plan. If you're solely interested in watching AC Milan vs PSG, you can do so for free via a Paramount Plus free trial which gives you free and full access to the service for seven days.
How to watch AC Milan vs PSG in the UK TNT Sports is the home of the Champions League in the UK. Formerly known as BT Sports, the UK streaming service is available through Discovery+ Premium monthly pass for £29.99 a month. You can also sign up via Amazon Prime if you find this method more convenient. Currently, there's no Discovery+ Premium free trial but you can sign up for the service on a 30-day rolling contract basis so you don't have to commit to a long period of time.
Entertainment The best game in the NFC on Sunday afternoon will be in Philadelphia when the Eagles play host to the Dallas Cowboys at Lincoln Financial Field. The game kicks off at 4:25 p.m. ET/1:25 p.m. PT on November 5. Kevin Burkhardt and Greg Olsen will call the game from the booth for Fox, with Erin Andrews and Tom Rinaldi reporting from the sidelines.
The Cowboys (5-2) are out to prove they belong in the discussion of the best team in the NFC. Dallas has not beaten an NFC team with a record above .500 this season. It will have that chance on Sunday against the Eagles (7-1), who sit at the top of the NFC with one loss. The Eagles are arguably the most complete team in the NFL and have a great chance to represent the NFC in the Super Bowl for the second straight season.
Entertainment Two of the best teams in the NFL will square off in Europe as part of the NFL's 2023 International Series. Tua Tagovailoa and the Miami Dolphins will face Patrick Mahomes and the Kansas City Chiefs at Deutsche Bank Park in Frankfurt, Germany. The game kicks off at 9:30 a.m. ET/6:30 a.m. PT on November 5. Rich Eisen, Jason McCourty, Dan Orlovsky, Sarah Walsh, and Stacey Dales will call the game on NFL Network.
The Dolphins (6-2) and Chiefs (6-2) are two teams with Super Bowl aspirations. This could be the first of two meetings since there's a strong possibility they will have a rematch in the playoffs. One player looking to make an impact early and often is Miami's Tyreek Hill, who leads all wide receivers in catches and touchdowns. Hill played his first six seasons with the Chiefs before being traded to the Dolphins during the 2022 offseason.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
