Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Netflix Original Movies Best Comedies on Netflix Best Netflix Original Series Best Anime on Netflix Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Fantasy Movies on Netflix Home Entertainment Guides This 2011 movie is Netflix’s most popular comedy. Here’s why you should watch it By Blair Marnell Close Bridesmaids is back on Netflix, and it’s already one of the most popular movies according to Netflix’s latest update. That’s really good for a 12-year-old movie, but director Paul Feig’s Bridesmaids was already considered a game-changer when it hit theaters in 2011. Back then, a raunchy female-led comedy wasn’t exactly on the top of Hollywood’s wish list. But Bridesmaids defied industry expectations and became a breakout hit.
It’s a female comedian showcase The script is heartfelt It has Melissa McCarthy’s star-making performance Kristen Wiig stars in the film as Annie Walker, a woman who has hit a rough patch in her life. The one thing that Annie has going for her is her unshakable friendship with Lillian Donovan (Maya Rudolph). When Lillian announces her plans to get married, she makes Annie her maid of honor and introduces her to the rest of the bridesmaids: Helen Harris III (Rose Byrne), Megan Price (Melissa McCarthy), Rita (Wendi McLendon-Covey), and Becca (Ellie Kemper). Above everything else, Annie just wants to make sure that her friend’s wedding plans go off without a hitch. Unfortunately for Annie, things quickly fall apart and it’s all her fault.
Unlike some of the other Netflix films that are enjoying a resurgence of popularity, Bridesmaids was a legitimate blockbuster. Regardless, that doesn’t mean it should be ignored now that it’s regaining its prominence. Therefore, we’re going to share three reasons why you should watch Bridesmaids on Netflix.
The best stand-up comedy on Netflix right now This 2019 Liam Neeson action movie is popular on Netflix. Here’s why 3 Netflix comedies like Bill Burr’s Old Dads you should watch right now It’s a female comedian showcase Universal Pictures Bridesmaids has an absolutely stellar lineup of leading ladies: Kristen Wiig, Maya Rudolph, Rose Byrne, Melissa McCarthy, Wendi McLendon-Covey, and Ellie Kemper. Of this group, Byrne was the only one who wasn’t a comedian, but she proved that she has comedic chops in her later films like Neighbors , and in her Apple TV+ original series, Physical and Platonic.
 Kemper also went on to bigger things as the star of Netflix’s Unbreakable Kimmy Schmidt.
All six of these actresses are hilarious throughout Bridesmaids , especially when the movie indulges in some very raunchy humor. But most of the laughs come from Annie’s rivalry with Helen. The frustration that builds in Annie is visible in every aspect of Wiig’s face and body language as she watches Helen upstage her at every turn until Annie just can’t take it anymore.
The script is heartfelt Universla Wiig not only starred in the movie, she co-wrote the script for Bridesmaids with screenwriter and actress Annie Mumolo ( Confess, Fletch ). As much as the film leans into broad and even crude comedy, it’s also a surprisingly poignant look at a woman whose life is in ruins. Wiig’s character, Annie, is so down on her luck that there’s a touch of desperation in everything that she does. Annie has lost her bakery business, her boyfriend, and the financial security that she used to enjoy. Now, Annie has to watch as she seemingly loses her best friend, Lillian, to Helen during the course of the wedding preparations.
While Annie feels justifiably threatened by Helen’s encroachment on her friendship with Lillian, that’s not really what her problem is. Several characters in the film urge Annie to take back control of her life and reclaim the passion that she left behind. That’s what makes it so satisfying when Annie finally takes the advice to heart.
It has Melissa McCarthy’s star-making performance Image used with permission by copyright holder Melissa McCarthy was not an unknown when she landed a role in Bridesmaids.
 She had been getting supporting roles for over a decade when she finally landed a lead role in CBS’ Mike & Molly the year before Bridesmaids came out. But Bridesmaids is the film that made McCarthy a movie star. She is absolutely fearless as Megan, and McCarthy doesn’t shy away from any of the film’s grossest scenes.
McCarthy left such a huge impression on fans and critics alike that she landed her first-ever Oscar nomination for Best Supporting Actress at the Academy Awards. And while McCarthy did not take home an Oscar, Bridesmaids allowed her to headline several of her own comedy movies and big-budget films like this year’s live-action remake of Disney ‘s The Little Mermaid.
 Now that’s a happy ending! Bridesmaids is now streaming on Netflix.
Editors' Recommendations The 10 most popular movies on Netflix right now This underrated 2023 horror movie on Netflix deserves more love. Here’s why you should watch it This action war movie is popular on Netflix. Here’s why you should watch it One of 2023’s best-reviewed movies is now on Netflix. Here’s why you should watch it The Devil on Trial might be Netflix’s most terrifying true crime movie. Here’s why you should watch it Netflix Nintendo Streaming Services Entertainment Bodies | Official Trailer | Netflix Just over week after it premiered, the new sci-fi series Bodies is among the most popular shows on Netflix. The series is based on the 2014 Bodies comic by writer Si Spencer and artists Dean Ormston, Tula Lotay, Meghan Hetrick, and Phil Winslade. But don't worry about needing to catch up on your reading. Everything you need to know is in the show itself.
Entertainment Halloween isn't for another week, but Netflix already has another treat for horror lovers. Creature, the new Turkish horror miniseries, has premiered on the 10 most popular shows on Netflix. It stars Taner Ölmez as Ziya, an idealistic young doctor whose determination to defeat death results in the creation of his own Creature (Erkan Kolçak Köstendil).
If you think that sounds like the plot of Mary Shelley's famous novel, Frankenstein, then you're not wrong. Çağan Irmak has put his own personal touches on the story that is at once familiar and different. And we've got three reasons why you should watch Creature this Halloween. We also have a viewing tip: Watch it in the original Turkish language with subtitles. The English dub isn't as convincing as the native tongue from the original.
A fresh coat of paint on a classic tale Entertainment It's officially spooky season, meaning it's finally time to binge as many horror movies as we can get our hands on.
One of the best parts of the Halloween season is celebrating with scary movies whether they feature goofy ghouls or bloody slashers. Unfortunately, this October doesn't have many big-time horror movies coming to theaters, though. The largest horror release would go to Five Nights at Freddy's on October 27, but the rest of the theater slate leaves much to be desired for horror fans. Thankfully, though, various streaming services are loading up their platforms with spooky hits to satiate our desires.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
