Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix F1 Live Stream Stranger Things Season 5 Best New Movies Most Popular Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney+ UFC Live Stream Best Movies on Disney+ Home Audio / Video Guides Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? What is Peacock? By Blair Marnell Close For decades, network television was the only game in town for TV. Cable networks expanded the offerings, but the streaming services have created peak TV. Direct-to-consumer is the future of the medium, and it’s no longer enough to simply have a single network or a few cable affiliates.
How much does Peacock cost? What do you need to watch Peacock? Which movies are included on Peacock? Which TV shows are on Peacock? What original series are on Peacock? What original movies are available on Peacock? Does Peacock include 4K streaming? What are the optimum internet speeds for Peacock? How do you get Peacock? NBCUniversal used to partner with Hulu for its streaming needs. The company also launched a short-lived streaming service called Seeso, which was primarily dedicated to comedy series. But now, NBCUniversal has Peacock, a new streaming service that’s meant to compete with Hulu, Amazon, and possibly even Netflix itself.
Related Watch The Office online The key to Peacock’s rise comes from a few places. First is its competitive price. Second is that it’s part of the massive NBCUniversal family. Peacock is also aggressively moving into original programming, which complements its large library of TV shows and movies produced by NBC and Universal Pictures, among others. That alone may make Peacock a contender in the streaming wars. But before you take sides, we’re here to help you decide if Peacock is right for you.
What is Apple Music? Music, pricing, and features explained What is Spotify? Music, pricing, and features explained What is Qobuz? Music, features, and pricing explained How much does Peacock cost? Peacock Premium is now the lowest tier you can get. (There used to be a free option.) You still have to watch ads. But for $5.99 a month, you can watch anything on Peacock. That includes every movie, TV show, live sports including Premier League, Telemundo Spanish-language series, and more. That’s an even cheaper price than Disney+.
The final tier of service is Peacock Premium Plus , which is $11.99 a month. Premium Plus has everything that Peacock Premium has. The difference is that the ads will largely be gone. Peacock notes on its site that some events, including sports, may have ads because of pre-existing agreements. For the most part, Premium Plus puts the ads in your rear-view window.
More on Peacock The best movies on Peacock right now The best shows on Peacock right now The Harry Potter franchise is coming to Peacock The most anticipated shows coming to Peacock What do you need to watch Peacock? A web browser is a good place to start. Peacock supports Chrome, Firefox, MS Edge, and Safari, as well as Android and iOS tablets.
Playstation 4 and Xbox One gamers can find Peacock on their respective consoles. Peacock also works with Android TV-enabled smart TVs, including Sony Bravia, and select set-top boxes like NVIDIA Shield.
Apple TV , Chromecast , LG Smart TV , and Vizio TV are all supported, in addition to select cable box sets from Cox and Xfinity. Also, after a long standoff, Peacock is now wavailable on Roku devices.
Which movies are included on Peacock? One of the advantages of having the Universal library at its disposal means that Peacock has a great movie selection and some classic titles right out of the gate. That includes American Pie , Back to the Future , Despicable Me , Do the Right Thing , Erin Brockovich , E.T. The Extra-Terrestrial , Evan Almighty , Field of Dreams , Jurassic Park , King Kong , and more.
There are also a selection of films from other studios, including American Beauty , Catch Me If You Can , The Graduate , The Godfather Trilogy , Reservoir Dogs , and Shrek , among others.
Universal Pictures Which TV shows are on Peacock? Peacock excels when it comes to television. It’s not an exaggeration to say that Peacock has several of the best TV series of all-time.
 That includes 30 Rock , Alfred Hitchcock Presents , Battlestar Galactica (2004), Cheers , Columbo , Everybody Hates Chris , Everybody Loves Raymond , Frasier , Friday Night Lights , Knight Rider , Law and Order , Law and Order: Criminal Intent , Law and Order: SVU , Leave It to Beaver , Magnum P.I.
, Miami Vice , Monk , Murder She Wrote , Parks and Recreation , Psych , The Munsters , and, The Rockford Files.
Admittedly, those shows do tend to skew towards an older audience. Current NBC series are also among the lineup for Peacock, including American Ninja Warrior , Brooklyn Nine-Nine , Ellen’s Game of Games , Hollywood Game Night , Titan Games , Zoey’s Extraordinary Playlist , and the recently concluded revival of Will & Grace.
 Paramount Network’s hit series, Yellowstone , also has a home on Peacock.
If you love late-night comedy, Peacock is also the place to find new and classic episodes of Saturday Night Live , The Tonight Show Starring Jimmy Fallon , and Late Night with Seth Meyers.
What original series are on Peacock? Until recently, A.P. Bio was a comedy series on NBC. Now, it’s a Peacock original series with the third season that premiered on September 3. Because Peacock is still young, only a handful of original series have already launched. They include the new adaptation of Brave New World , as well as animated shows Cleopatra in Space and Madagascar: A Little Wild.
 There’s also Lost Speedways , a documentary series hosted by Dale Earnhardt Jr. that explores abandoned racetracks.
Perhaps the most exciting series coming to Peacock is the Battlestar Galactica revival. However, it’s unclear if it will continue the story of the 2004 reboot or serve as another reset for the franchise. A Saved by the Bell sequel series is coming sooner than that, with many of the show’s original stars reprising their roles. Similarly, Soleil Moon Frye is reprising her role as Punky Brewster for a revival series that finds Punky as a struggling single mom who encounters an abandoned kid that reminds Punky of who she used to be.
Former SNL skit MacGruber is getting its own series in 2021, alongside a spinoff of the movie Clueless.
 A fantasy series based on Fonda Lee’s Jade City is also on the way, alongside a reboot of Queer as Folk.
Image used with permission by copyright holder What original movies are available on Peacock? At the moment, there’s only one original movie on Peacock: Psych 2: Lassie Come Home , the sequel to the hit USA series which is also on Peacock. There are a few additional feature-length sports documentaries, including Dreams Live On: Countdown to Tokyo and In Deep with Ryan Lochte.
 But for now, original movies are not the primary focus of Peacock.
Does Peacock include 4K streaming? It doesn’t have that feature now, but we think they might add it down the line.
What are the optimum internet speeds for Peacock? Peacock suggests that speeds of at least 2.5 Mbps should be enough to enjoy your Peacock experience without suffering any delays. You might not know your internet speed off the cuff so that you can test it here.
How do you get Peacock? You can start here to access the free version of Peacock. The free version doesn’t even require a credit card to get started, although you’ll naturally have to fork over your credit card info if you want to upgrade to Peacock Premium or Peacock Premium Plus. You can try it free for seven days before deciding if it’s worth the upgrade.
The Peacock app is accessible through gaming consoles such as the PS4 or Xbox One. You can also watch on your computer or via your smartphone and tablet. Gaming platforms feature Peacock in their respective stores, android devices in the Google Play Store, and iPhones and iPads feature it in the App Store.
You can also access the Peacock app via most smart TV devices, such as Android TV, Apple TV, Chromecast, LG TV, and Roku. You can find it in your channel store and download it to your device.
Editors' Recommendations What is DirecTV Stream: plans, pricing, channels, and more Peacock TV free trial: Can you stream for free Sony’s Bravia Core gets a new name, and new PS4/PS5 apps What is Pandora? Music, features and pricing explained What is Disney Plus: plans, price, and everything else you should know Entertainment Apps Peacock Audio / Video Peacock — the streaming service owned by NBCUniversal — is increasing its prices in August. Peacock Premium keeps advertising and is going from $5 a month to $6 a month. The (mostly) ad-free Peacock Premium Plus is going from $10 a month to $12 a month.
The new rates take effect immediately for new subscribers, and August 17 for anyone already subscribed. Peacock is said to be alerting customers, and the change also has been made apparent on Peacock account pages.
Audio / Video Classical music fans no longer have to wade through an endless list of promotions for the latest pop, hip-hop, and alternative artists to get to the music they love, thanks to the new Apple Music Classical App, a standalone app from Apple that strictly focuses on classical music. You can preorder the app now and it will be available for download on March 28.
To be clear, the app is not a new streaming service and it does not require a separate subscription. Anyone who already has an Apple Music subscription via Individual, Student, Family, or Apple One plans will be able to download and use the app, much the same way as you use the existing Apple Music app. Unfortunately, Apple Music Voice Plan members are not included.
Audio / Video Peacock has pared back its available subscription options to two — and they're now both of the paid variety. As first noted by The Streamable, the free Peacock tier no longer is available, and the $5-a-month Premium and $10-a-month Plus plans are now the options for new subscribers.
Those who currently are on the free tier won't immediately be forced onto one of the paid options, with Peacock's website saying "If you already have a Peacock account but do not have a paid plan, you can watch a limited amount of content for free." Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
