Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix F1 Live Stream Stranger Things Season 5 Best New Movies Most Popular Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney+ UFC Live Stream Best Movies on Disney+ Home Entertainment Guides 3 underrated movies on Peacock you need to watch in November By Blair Marnell Close Peacock doesn’t always get a chance to strut its stuff, but it does have an impressive lineup of films. They just don’t stick around for long compared to the other streamers. Keep this in mind when we share our picks for the three underrated movies on Peacock. Most content new on Peacock has a very short shelf life.
Honk for Jesus. Save Your Soul. (2022) Seeking a Friend for the End of the World (2012) Mystery Men (1999) This month, our picks include a hilarious mocumentary, a largely forgotten superhero flick, and a romantic comedy about the end of the world. These are the three underrated movies on Peacock you need to watch in November.
Honk for Jesus. Save Your Soul. (2022) Focus Features Honk for Jesus. Save Your Soul is a mockumentary about Trinitie Childs (Regina Hall) and her husband, Lee-Curtis Childs (Sterling K. Brown), both of whom became extremely wealthy as the owners of a megachurch called Wander to Greater Paths. However, their church has fallen on hard times since Lee-Curtis was caught seducing young men despite his ardent anti-gay pronouncements.
The best movies on Amazon Prime Video (November 2023) Don’t let these 3 November hidden streaming movie gems fly under your radar 3 TV shows on Tubi you should watch in November The Childs use the documentary as a way to drive up publicity for the reopening of their megachurch. But most of their parishioners have moved on, and a rival megachurch, which is run by Shakura (Nicole Beharie) and Keon Sumpter (Conphidance), threatens to derail the Childs’ plans by opening their doors on the same day as the grand reopening of Wander to Greater Paths.
Watch Honk for Jesus. Save Your Soul.
on Peacock.
Seeking a Friend for the End of the World (2012) Focus Features The title of Seeking a Friend at the End of the World is not a misnomer. An Armageddon -like plan to divert an asteroid away from Earth has failed, and humanity only has days before an extinction event that may wipe out all life on the planet. Dodge ( The Office ‘s Steve Carell) is a newly single man whose wife abandons him immediately after the end of the world announcement. Dodge is facing this alone until he notices that his neighbor, Penny ( Pride & Prejudice ‘s Keira Knightley), is in the same boat.
Dodge and Penny don’t have the same goals in their remaining days, but he does offer to help her get to England to visit her family if she’ll help him track down his high school sweetheart so he can experience love one last time.
Watch Seeking a Friend for the End of the World on Peacock.
Mystery Men (1999) Universal Pictures You can blame Mystery Men and Shrek for unleashing Smash Mouth’s All Star on the world. It’s also a precursor of the modern superhero movies and is based on the comics by Bob Burden. Unfortunately, Burden’s signature creation, The Flaming Carrot, sits out this movie. The good news is that the film has a bunch of lovable losers like Mr. Furious (Ben Stiller), The Bowler (Janeane Garofalo), The Shoveler (William H. Macy), Blue Raja (Hank Azaria), Spleen (Paul Reubens), and The Sphinx (Wes Studi).
The team is called into action when Champion City’s top hero, Captain Amazing (Greg Kinnear), gets his greatest foe, Casanova Frankenstein (Geoffrey Rush), sprung from prison. Predictably, Frankenstein captures Amazing and threatens to take over the city. Against this foe, the Mystery Men may not be able to put up much of a fight.
Watch Mystery Men on Peacock.
Editors' Recommendations 3 movies leaving Peacock in November you have to watch The 50 best movies on Netflix right now (November 2023) 3 dramas on Prime Video you need to watch in November 6 best TV shows you need to watch in December 3 sci-fi movies on Paramount+ you need to watch in November Peacock Entertainment November is chock-full of wonderful new shows you might have heard about already, including Monarch: Legacy of Monsters, the latest in the MonsterVerse featuring Godzilla and starring Kurt Russell, and the murder mystery A Murder at the End of the World starring The Crown's Emma Corrin. But as we head full force into the holiday season, there are plenty of other fabulous shows being released that aren’t talked about as much.
You won’t want to let these three hidden gem streaming TV shows fly under your radar in November, as all of them have been getting largely positive reviews so far.
Lawmen: Bass Reeves Lawmen: Bass Reeves | Official Trailer | Paramount+ Entertainment Long before there were streaming services, PBS was bringing together programming from all over the world to go along with original documentaries, news programming, and scripted dramas. The best part is that PBS was -- and continues to be -- free of charge. You don't need to be a PBS member to watch some of the best documentary programs that you can find, but it would definitely help these teams continue making the shows that you want to watch.
For this month, we've chosen the three PBS shows that you should watch in November, including a harrowing look at the war in Ukraine, an extremely enjoyable history of ninjas, and a documentary about the groundbreaking women's sports rule Title IX, which paved the way for female athletes to get the spotlight that they deserve. For more PBS shows, you can check out our roundup of everything coming to PBS in November.
Frontline: 20 Days in Mariupol Entertainment Who's in the mood for an action film? Netflix has an impressive slate of action films that only improves with the addition of new films every month. New arrivals include Liam Neeson's Cold Pursuit, David Fincher's The Killer, and Adam Wingard's Godzilla vs. Kong.
This November, we curated a list of three action movies you need to watch on Netflix. Our action picks include one of the best war movies ever made, an underrated Clint Eastwood thriller, and Michael Bay at his finest.
Saving Private Ryan (1998) Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
