Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Deals Aventon Bikes: A pleasure to ride, easy to own, fantastic to gift By Briley Kenney Close This content was produced in partnership with Aventon.
Let us introduce you to a new, convenient commuting option What about deals and holiday gifting? As Aventon so aptly claims, “the next level is here,” and we agree — the next level of bicycling or biking is truly here. That is, ebikes totally and completely transform the experience, above and beyond what you’d normally get with a traditional bicycle. Aventon’s bikes are also designed from the ground up to deliver a top-notch rider experience. But let’s back up a little here and briefly talk about why you might want an ebike over the traditional option.
As you might expect, ebikes are equipped with electric motors to give you a little extra power during your rides. You can use them to commute longer distances and conserve a ton of your energy. The powerful motor can help you get up steep inclines or over tough terrain easier than ever when you’re out biking. You could even use them for off-roading in general. There are a variety of bicycle types too, some of which are more fitting for certain terrain. Adversely, commuter bikes are meant for the open road, whether taking a city ride or a small-town ride — they’re beautifully nostalgic, as well. What else do they do differently? Well, let’s take a closer look, and while we’re at it, we can also discuss why they’d make excellent gifts this holiday season.
Shop Now Besides the exquisite craftsmanship and designs, the first thing to note about Aventon Bikes is that they offer reasonable and affordable options. Whereas most ebikes utilize premium materials to good effect but at a high cost, Aventon’s options are attainably premium. The features, design, and specifications are equal to that of any bike in the $2,500 to $4,000 range, and yet they’re all priced under $2,000. The new Level.2 bikes , in particular, are as much eye candy as they are functional. Those bikes, by the way, have a torque sensor, which recognizes how light or hard you’re pedaling and adjusts power to meet that energy. This extends range, conserves battery life, and helps you conserve body fuel, and no other brand of bikes is offering the same features within its price point — Level.2 bikes start at $1,949.
Let us introduce you to a new, convenient commuting option Image used with permission by copyright holder Aventon’s Level.2 bikes are meant for commuting, but they work well for casual riding, training, long-distance rides, and nearly any type of riding you’d do on the roads. They’re bikes with pedals, so you can ride them like any traditional bike, but where they truly excel is in the added support they provide riders. They have a range of up to 30 miles on a single charge, with no pedaling whatsoever. They also have a top speed of 20 miles per hour, and both specifications have been discerned using real-world range testing — they’re not just a made-up feature.
More importantly, the built-in torque sensor automatically detects how much power you’re investing into the pedals — a lot or a little — and adjusts the power of the bike itself to match. So, if you need a little more kick, the power increases, or it decreases if you’re giving it your all. That’s to say it makes for an incredibly smooth ride, and one that’s seamless with your efforts, so you never feel like you’re fighting against the bike or the motor.
A backlit LCD allows you to monitor speed, battery life, distance traveled, and much more. You can also sync your stats and updates with the Aventon mobile app to keep track of everything on your phone. Other common bike features for Level.2 models include a pedal assist throttle, front suspension, a rear rack and fenders, and beyond. If you get a chance to try one for yourself, we’re pretty sure you’ll love it.
What about deals and holiday gifting? Image used with permission by copyright holder The best thing about bikes is that they’re solid gifts for everyone. But ebikes take that a step further because for those who don’t enjoy pedaling a traditional bike, you get the same experience with much less effort. Whether for nostalgia, thrills, business, or pleasure, few people would turn down an Aventon Bike when gifted one.
If you’re interested, starting November 1, Aventon is offering free shipping on all orders, with no promo code needed. Of course, there are a couple of additional deals you can take advantage of: Soltera Single Speed Ebike — $999, was $1,299 Aventure Ebike in Sand colorway — $1,899, was $1,999 You can also shop Aventon’s excellent bikes and check out the new Level.2 commuter options on your own accord.
Shop Now Editors' Recommendations It’s time for a new kind of portable power: Yoshino B4000 SST Peloton Black Friday deals: Save on Peloton Bike, Peloton Guide, more This ProForm exercise bike is discounted from $1,000 to $400 Speed up your daily commute with these e-bike deals Upway launches one of the best marketplaces for certified e-bikes, new or not Smart Home e-Bikes Deals This content was produced in partnership with Aventon.
Ebikes or electric bikes are the next wave of sustainable and convenient transportation, merging the manual machinations of a bicycle with an electric motor to empower the average rider. Aventon is at the forefront of that innovation, offering several thoughtful models like the Deals This content was produced in partnership with Growatt.
As convenient as today's mobile devices can be, our over-reliance on electronics is not without problems; namely, having to keep all those mobile gadgets charged when you're on the move. Laptops, smartphones, tablets, smartwatches, wireless headphones, and handheld gaming systems (and this list only goes on) all require regular charging, and if you don't like being tied to a power outlet, then a portable power station is what you need. Growatt, an expert maker of smart home solar power and energy storage equipment, has just the solution in its new VITA 550, a compact and highly portable power station that's the perfect solution for keeping all your gadgets juiced up on the go. It was just released at the CES 2023 trade show with the standard price of $529. If you pre-order it before January 31, you can score a $100 early-bird discount that lets you grab one for $429 for a limited time. Between January 10 and January 31, 2023, you can also use coupon code GroVita550 to get an additional $30 off, bringing the price down to $399.
Pre-Order Now As a solar leader, Growatt has 11 years of experience in the new energy industry, and has supported over three million individuals and families. Growatt's newest product, the VITA 550 features some impressive specs on that front. For example, the 240 watt input support is one of the highest solar intake options in the 500 watt-hour capacity range. It also charges super fast thanks to the 2.5-hour rated charging times via solar, thanks to the high solar input. Most importantly, the 99% MPPT technology delivers a very low conversion loss making the solar generation for the system much more efficient and capable.
We've all run into the situation of needing to charge one or more of our portable electronic devices, only to be nowhere near a power source. It's one of the perennial problems of living in a tech-driven digital age. It's no mystery, then, why portable charging solutions have become so popular, ranging from pocket-sized power banks to large generator-like power stations capable of powering laptops and smaller kitchen appliances. The new Growatt VITA 550 falls somewhere closer to the middle of that spectrum, striking a nice balance between portability and power storage capacity.
Exploring the Growatt VITA 550 in more detail Deals Still got a couple of Christmas gifts to tick off your list this year? This deal is the perfect gift for coffee lovers everywhere. You can grab the Ember Temperature control Smart Mug 2 for just $120, down from the regular price of $150, saving $30, so you can wave bye-bye to cold cups of coffee. Deals like this don't stick around for long, so if you want to buy your techy friends the perfect gift -- or treat yourself -- snap it up now, before it sells out! Why you should buy the Ember Temperature Control Smart Mug 2 What do you buy the tech-minded friend -- or family member -- who has everything, including a smart coffee maker? The Temperature Control Smart Mug 2 from Ember. The perfect gift for techy types and coffee (or tea, or hot chocolate) lovers, this smart mug keeps your hot beverage of choice at the perfect temperature of your choosing, so you'll never again have to suffer the woes of a cold cup of joe.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
