Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Deals Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? The Aventon Abound cargo ebike is perfect for grocery trips, hauling gear, and more By Briley Kenney Close Image used with permission by copyright holder This content was produced in partnership with Aventon.
What Makes Aventon’s Abound Stand Out Addressing Common Industry Concerns: The Battery Quality Where Can I Get the Abound Cargo Ebike? Ebikes or electric bikes are the next wave of sustainable and convenient transportation, merging the manual machinations of a bicycle with an electric motor to empower the average rider. Aventon is at the forefront of that innovation, offering several thoughtful models like the , or the off-road friendly with fat tires. This time around they’ve shifted focus a little, offering an ebike, as you might expect, but with quite a bit more utility. Called Abound, it’s the company’s first-ever cargo ebike that can be used to haul, well, just about anything.
Imagine a trip to the grocery store on your average ebike. There’s not much room to place groceries, accommodate a second rider, or carry supplies. The Abound changes all of that thanks to a spacious rear-mounted rack. There’s even room to load the kiddos if you want to go for a family trip. It features Aventon’s versatile step-through frame, along with a torque sensor and powerful 750-watt rear hub motor. Built-in turn signal functionality and front headlights boost safety, letting everyone know where you are and what you’re doing whether riding during the day or night. If you’re looking to replace those quick car trips to the grocery store, saving on both gas and time, the Abound is an excellent way to go. There’s a lot more to it as well, so let’s take a closer look at the rest of the system.
What Makes Aventon’s Abound Stand Out Image used with permission by copyright holder Besides the new, extended rear cargo rack, there are a lot of great features that make Aventon’s ebikes, and the Abound especially, stand out from comparable options. The torque sensor recognizes manual pedaling output while you ride, and matches it to amplify your momentum and experience. It feels more like riding naturally, while offering convenient power, and conserving battery life. That works nicely with the pedal assist and handlebar-mounted throttle. There are four levels of pedal assist to choose from — eco, tour, sport, and turbo — which you can swap between seamlessly during your ride, and the throttle allows you to boost power with speeds up to 20 miles-per-hour up to 50 miles in range travel. The powerful 750-watt sustained rear hub motor is supported by the 720-watt-hour capacity battery offering plenty of usage time on a single charge. The adjustable dropper seatpost makes it easy to maximize comfort, allowing you to adjust the seat height quickly before a trip.
The Abound also features a front fork suspension system with up to 50mm of travel, stylish front and rear fenders, and passenger footboards. Plus, there’s a storage bag for your personal items and valuables, and the rear storage rack support up to 143 pounds in total weight capacity. The integrated front and rear lights help in low-light or night conditions, meanwhile, the turn signals keep you safe during your rides, especially if you’re making a city commute. An LCD color display with a backlight allows you to see all settings, and speeds, at a glance, and it syncs to a mobile app so you can share your rides with friends, family, and the greater Aventon community. There really is a lot to love about this new ebike.
Here are some of the top specs: Top Speed: 20 MPH Range: Up to 50 miles Weight: 81 lbs Tires: 20″ by 2.4″ Motor: 48V, 750W brushless rear hub motor with torque sensor Display: BC280 LCD color display with backlight and App Connectivity Brakes: Hydraulic disc Drivetrain: 7-speed Frame: Single-butted aluminum alloy Battery: Internal 720Wh Adjustable dropper seatpost Includes foot board, front and rear fenders, rear rack, and storage bag Assistance throttle and four pedal assist levels Addressing Common Industry Concerns: The Battery Quality One concern with electronic products like this is that the batteries can and may cause a hazard. For example, there have been instances of fires related to ebike or escooter components. It’s important to point out that when this happens, generally, it’s because the devices are in the super budget range, and the batteries used within are generic and not up to standards — they don’t employ quality battery cells and they’re not tested or certified appropriately. That is not the case with Aventon’s bikes, for any of its models, including the Abound.
According to Aventon: “All [brand] ebikes are made with the highest quality materials and components, including their batteries which are sourced from reputable brands such as LG and Samsung and are TUV Certified in compliance with the UL 2849 standard. This means they have been put through rigorous testing, ensuring the product is safe for public sale, and consumer use and that they meet the ebike battery fire safety requirements.” Where Can I Get the Abound Cargo Ebike? Image used with permission by copyright holder Abound comes in two color variations, including Polaris — which is a light blue — and Sage, a slightly greenish-gray hue. The trappings and fixtures on both colors are all-black, blending nicely in a modern, almost minimal design. Moreover, it comes in one size, so there’s no need to worry about sizing the bike or choosing the appropriate options. Just pick a color and order, that’s it.
Avent’s remarkably versatile and functional Abound cargo ebike is $2,199, and while it comes with everything you need, there are add-ons available to customize your ride. For example, you could order a front basket or bag, extra seat padding, or a front utility rack. You can always order those accessories later too if you just want the bike for now, but realize later you need to expand functionality. Either way, you can order Abound directly from Aventon.
Editors' Recommendations Shark Black Friday sale: Save on vacuums, air purifiers, and more Arlo, Blink, Ring & more: Security camera systems are on sale today Best Buy’s deal of the day is $60 off an electric pressure washer Best electric toothbrush deals: Save on Colgate, Quip and Oral-B Best air purifier deals: Save big on Dyson, Shark, TCL and more Smart Home e-Bikes Smart Home Security cameras are as affordable as ever, and whether you’re looking for one of the best home security cameras or one of the best wireless security cameras, they’re pieces of tech you can often find a discount on. This is certainly the case right now, as significant discounts are taking place on a variety of security camera models by Arlo, Ring and Blink, among others. We’ve done the heavy lifting of tracking down the best security camera deals you can find right now, so read onward if you’re in the market for an affordable way to keep an eye on your home and surroundings.
Arlo Essential Spotlight Camera — $70, was $130 The Arlo Essential Spotlight Camera is one of the better wireless cameras out there. Arlo is a brand that’s become a staple in home security cameras. The Essential Spotlight Camera is easy to install and take down for charging, and it offers the conveniences you’ll find in most wireless cameras. These include easy wireless connectivity to your home’s wifi network, which often needs to be done with a hub. This camera has connectivity built right in without the need for additional peripheral equipment. It has a motion sensor and an infrared mode for seeing at night. It has a two-way audio, which can be a good way to ward off intruders or talk with people making deliveries.
Smart Home Whether you're working at home or still going to an office, having security cameras around your has can offer you peace of mind, but what might not give you as much peace of mind is finding the right one. Luckily, the best security cameras usually have some form of deal on them, and we've collected some of the best here for you to save you the trouble. So, whether you need a whole-house setup or just a single camera, there are deals for every need.
Today's Best Security Camera Deals While there are a lot of great deals, our favorite is probably the Swann Enforcer bundle, with four 1080p cameras and local storage. That last bit is important if you have choppy internet and can't rely on cloud storage; plus, you don't have to deal with annoying subscription services, which is always a big plus. The downside is that it's a wired system, so you'll have to run cabling, and not everybody is willing to do that. On the other hand, if you want a wireless system, the Arlo Pro 4 Spotlight Camera Security Bundle is a great option since it comes with a charging station and costs $300 for three cameras, so essentially $100 per camera for 2k and a bunch of other functions.
Of course, if you only need one camera, the Arlo Essential Indoor Camera and the eufy Security SoloCam L40 are both great options. Which one you go for depends wholly on whether you feel the need for 2k resolution or not, although if you're doing it for an indoor space that isn't too big, it might not be worth going for 2k, especially if you only need a pet camera.
Deals Best Buy has gone all-out with its 4th of July sale, as you'd expect. That means there are some fantastic discounts on seemingly everything you can think of. Whether you're looking to buy a cheap washer/dryer bundle, a new TV, something Apple-related or simply a pair of headphones, there's a great price here. With so much available, we strongly recommend clicking the sale button below to see what's out there. If you need a little guidance though, keep reading while we take you through a few highlights.
What to shop in the Best Buy 4th of July sale There are a lot of washer/dryer bundle deals as part of the Best Buy 4th of July sale which is why you should click through above to see specifics. However, we have to call out one deal from Samsung. You can buy a Samsung 4.5 cubic feet high-efficiency top load washer along with a 7.2 cubic feet electric dryer, Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
