Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Deals This Labor Day electric bike deal at REI cuts 20% off the price By Bruce Brown Close If you’re searching for an economical, environment-friendly way to commute or get around town, check out this electric bike deal. REI has knocked $540 off the $2,699 list price of the Co-op Cycles CTY e2.2 electric bike — that’s a savings of 20% when you buy it for $2,159 during this sale. The manufacturer is discontinuing this model, but that shouldn’t dissuade you from taking advantage of the excellent deal on a sturdy e-bike with REI’s Coast to Coast Support. The only downside is supplies are limited and they’re not making any more, so don’t lose out.
Buy Now If you read e-bike reviews , you know that the wide range of designs, top speed, and electric-assisted range can vary significantly depending on the electric bike’s primary intended use. Co-op Cycle’s CTY e2.2 is built on a rugged 6061 aluminum frame suitable for the varied challenges of urban cycling. The CTY has a mid-drive 250-watt Shimano electric motor. Mid-drive motors have the advantage of smooth and relatively quiet operation. A Shimano 36-volt 504-watt-hour battery pumps out 60 Newton meters of torque to accelerate faster and help you mount sidewalks, hills, and upgrades. The CTY e2.2’s motor is an upgrade from the previous CTY e2.1 model. The e2.2 also adds fenders and an improved range, up to 50 miles per charge.
The CTY e2.2 is a Class 1 e-bike, which means you can take advantage of electric assistance when you pedal, with the top speed limited to 20 miles per hour. You can ride the bike without the electric boost and just use the assistance when pulling away from a stop or on tough hills if you still want to get a good workout when you ride. You cannot power this bike with a throttle; the electric power is only available when you pedal. Like all the best electric bikes , the CTY e2.2 has hydraulic disc brakes front and rear for strong, smooth stopping power. Its Suntour front fork suspension can alleviate some of the bump if you hit potholes, rocks, or curbs while you ride, but the 1.95-inch tires don’t offer the extra cushioning you can get with fatter tires. The bike has a standard rear rack, which makes it easy to attach panniers or baskets for carrying groceries or packages. When you buy the CTY e2.2 from REI online you you get the significant advantages of free bike assembly, in-store or curbside pickup, and one year of free adjustments. All bikes need periodic adjustments, so it’s a big deal that you can get assistance from the experts at REI stores nationwide.
The Co-op Cycles CTY e2.2 electric bike isn’t set up for off-road boondocking, mountain biking, or trail riding. With its relatively narrow tires, it’s also not a beach bike. But, in these days of costly gas, the CTY e2.2 is an environment-friendly alternative for city and in-town travel for one person. Available in three sizes, the Co-op Cycles CTY e2.2 is $540 off at REI right now for $2,159 instead of the usual $2,699. Hurry to take advantage of this electric bike deal before they sell out.
Buy Now Editors' Recommendations This 4TB SSD deal at Amazon cuts the price to $280 Flash deal knocks $140 off this 48-amp home electric vehicle charger This Amazon Echo Show 8 deal cuts $60 off after Prime Day Ninja’s new outdoor grill just got a big price cut for Prime Day in October AirPods vs AirPods Pro: Which Prime Day deal should you buy? Smart Home e-Bikes Audio / Video Best Buy launched discounts for various Bose products to try to attract the interest of shoppers who are already online due to the return of Prime Day deals with Amazon's Prime Big Deal Days 2023. There are various headphones and soundbars on sale, in addition to wireless speakers and other audio accessories. The demand for products by Bose is always high because it's one of the premier names in the audio industry, so if you want to take advantage of any of these offers, you'll need to complete your purchase immediately as stocks may already be dwindling.
What to buy in Best Buy's Bose deals The most affordable audio device that you can get from Best Buy's ongoing Bose deals is the Bose SoundLink Micro, a portable Bluetooth speaker that's Smart Home Maybe it's a surprise, maybe it's not, but Amazon is back with its Prime Day Big Deal Days sale in October. It's happening much closer to the holiday shopping season and offers an excellent opportunity to stock up on last-minute discounts. When it comes to your home security, Amazon's Ring has it all -- video doorbells, security cameras, and alarm kits. They're available with huge discounts in this year's Prime Day deals, too, so if you've been thinking about adding extra layers of protection for your family, you're going to want to take advantage of these offers. Be warned that you're probably not the only one thinking about beefing up your home's security for Prime Day, so it's highly recommended that you order as soon as possible because stocks for Ring products may already be selling out.
What to buy in Amazon's Prime Day Big Deal Days Ring sale The cheapest Ring security devices that you can buy from Amazon's Prime Day Big Deal Days sale include the second-generation Ring Indoor Cam, which is Smart Home If you're looking to step into the world of robot vacuums without paying an arm and a leg, the Roomba 676 is an entry-level device that won't break the bank. While the regular price of the Roomba 676 is $209, Walmart has heavily discounted it down to $139 for Prime Day, making it a steal if you're looking for a cheap robot vacuum and one of the better Roomba deals we've seen so far.
Why you should buy the iRobot Roomba 676 Robot Vacuum Probably one of our favorite features of iRobot vacuums like the Roomba 676 is how intelligent it is. Beyond doing a pretty good job of figuring out the parameters of your home and where not to go, it can also learn your schedule to stay out of your way. As such, it can adjust to your habits and routines so you don't have to be constantly stressing about it doing its job, not to mention the app integration, which lets you give it commands directly, which helps a lot with convenience. We also really appreciate the cliff detection feature, which stops it from accidentally throwing itself off a flight of stairs, saving your stairs and potentially having to buy a new Roomba.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
