Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Deals Introducing Heybike Explore, an all-terrain e-bike with a smooth ride By Briley Kenney Close Image used with permission by copyright holder This content was produced in partnership with Heybike.
Unless you have a hardcore daily biking regimen, it’s difficult to imagine pedaling for 70 miles. That’s a long trip, it’s a lot of energy, and frankly, it’s longer than most car rides or commutes. It’s also tough to imagine that ride being comfortable in any way. It would take you seemingly forever to ride that distance casually. That is, unless, you’ve hitched a ride on an electric bike, or e-bike for short.
Heybike recently announced some upgrades to its newest e-bike model, and guess what, you can ride it for distances from 55 miles to 70 miles when pedal-assisted. Those long trips we talked about can be more casual and enjoyable thanks to the bike’s electric capabilities.
The Heybike Explore Step-Thru Fat Tire electric bike , the model in question, has also received a front suspension fork upgrade which provides a more stable riding experience, across a bevy of terrain types. With wide tires, at dimensions of 4 inches by 26 inches, the stability is even better. We’re talking crazy smooth rides, wherever you go. Moreover, a 48-volt, 20-Amp-hour battery comes with the bike and is fully removable — which makes it easy to take out and charge at home or the office. The battery powers a 750-watt motor which offers speed and support during rides. Altogether, you can reach top speeds up to 28-miles-per-hour for relatively quick rides, or long ones, as your heart desires.
See Heybike Explore Now Strong battery? Check. Strong motor? Check. Wide tires and front suspension fork? Check. These are all welcome changes, but of course, they’re not the only new features. The Heybike Explore is also rocking a new twist-grip throttle, making it easier to kick the throttle into gear and keep speeds consistent, especially on tougher road conditions. Just give it a quick twist and off you go! And if the ride is bumpy, you’ll still maintain excellent control to fine-tune your speeds and movement. An LCD resting in the middle of the handlebars will tell you important details like what speed you’re going, the distance you’ve traveled, and battery life.
Image used with permission by copyright holder The Explore can support a maximum weight load of up to 330 pounds, with a rack atop the rear wheel to store bags and other belongings — you’ll want to secure them first! You can also order a front basket, saddlebags, and other storage alongside the bike. The battery takes six to seven hours to charge to full, but because it’s removable, you can take it with you when you park. You could charge it in your office if you’re at work, wherever you’re visiting — like a coffee shop — or at home. It’s convenient and offers plenty of power for a 70-mile trip with pedal assist enabled.
Heybike’s Explore is available now, for $1,699. They’re also running a special offer right now, if you buy two bikes you’ll get a free saddlebag — a $79 value. To take advantage of that offer just add two bikes to your cart and a saddlebag. When all is said and done, it’s a great option for casual riders that want to go long distances, do a little off-roading, or really, for those who just want a smoother more comfortable bike ride.
See Heybike Explore Now Editors' Recommendations Teleport Ride: No other e-bike comes close in range, power, and speed Upway launches one of the best marketplaces for certified e-bikes, new or not Aventon Bikes: A pleasure to ride, easy to own, fantastic to gift The best eSignature software tools and apps for 2022 eBay Smart Home Sale: Up to 55% off Arlo, Google, Nest, Samsung, TCL, and more e-Bikes Deals REI's winter clearance sales are epic, with deals on many types of gear with discounts to 50% and even 60% when you shop at the REI Outlet. For 2020, the REI's slashed prices on select electric bikes and mountain bikes up to 50%.
From REI's wide selection of bikes on sale, we found the best discounts on electric bikes for commuting, adventure riding, and e-mountain bikes from Cannondale and Ghost. We also selected non-electric bikes, including mountain, trail, and fat-tire bikes from Cannondale and Diamond and a Salsa expedition bike. Whether you want to take advantage of REI's winter clearance sale to upgrade to a new bike or if you want to add to your two-wheeled fleet, these seven deals can help you save up to $3,000.
Cars Electric bikes and scooters play a quickly-increasing variety of roles. Whether used for commuting, beach cruising, trail riding, or just tooling around the neighborhood, ebikes and escooters take many shapes and forms at prices that range from a few hundred dollars to nearly $10,000. Walmart slashed prices on two Hyper E-Ride ebikes and three Razor electric scooters for its Labor Day sale.
Good deals on ebikes during this holiday sales event indicate a growing interest in electric-powered bicycles for sport and utility. Whether you are looking for an ebike or escooter for yourself or a family member, these five deals can help you save up to $401.
Hyper E-Ride Electric Bike 700C Wheels --- $401 off Deals Electric bikes serve many purposes, including exercise, cruising, commuting, trail riding, and even basic transportation in villages and cities. Spiking interest in ebikes has resulted in an increase in great discounts. REI, Amazon, and Walmart all have attractive deals on ebikes during the best Labor Day sales.
You can find ebikes for $500 to $10,000 with an often bewildering array of styles and purposes. We've found the best discounts on ebikes from REI, Amazon, and Walmart and put them all in one place. We also made observations about the best use for the bikes in these deals. Whether you're buying your first ebike, upgrading, or adding to your collection, these six deals can help you save up to $1,800.
Cannondale Quick NEO ebike - 2019 -- $693 off Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
