Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending in Computing: Best Dell Laptops ChatGPT Best Monitors Asus ROG Azoth Review How to delete a page in Word in 3 easy steps RTX 4080 vs RTX 4070 Ti Best Mac Apps AMD vs Intel Recall an Email in Outlook Home Gaming Reviews Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Steam Deck OLED review: Valve’s refreshed handheld made me a believer By Giovanni Colantonio Close $550.00 Same great portable PC Significantly improved display Better battery Cooler, quieter fans Faster download speeds Linux still presents hurdles OK, consider me a convert.
Design and display Power and battery tweaks Other extras Ever since the Steam Deck was an implausible rumor, I’ve viewed Valve’s experimental handheld with a lot of skepticism. The idea of a device that played my PC games on the go sounded incredible on paper, but I was left wondering if the idea could deliver on those aspirations. When the device finally dropped in February 2022, a lot of my concerns were initially justified. A massive form factor, poor battery, and inconsistent game compatibility made the device feel like a rough draft of a great idea. And yet, I slowly found that I couldn’t imagine traveling without it with each passing day.
Perhaps sensing that the device was right on the cusp of greatness, Valve dropped a major surprise last week when it revealed the new Steam Deck OLED.
 It’s not an entirely new console — the design is almost exactly the same — but it’s the small refresh the Steam Deck needed to keep it ahead of a growing list of competitors. With a significantly improved screen, better battery, and small tweaks that go a long way, the Steam Deck’s second draft makes it clear that Valve’s portable PC is still the king of the hill.
Half-Life gets a free update and Steam Deck verification for its birthday This fantasy Minesweeper roguelite is my new Steam Deck buddy You can get a Steam Deck for 20% off right now during Steam Summer Sale Design and display In terms of form factor, virtually nothing has changed with the new Steam Deck model. It’s the same top-heavy design that looks and feels enormous on first impression, but becomes more natural after a while. Thankfully, it actually is a touch lighter, shaving off around 30 grams. It’s a small change, but I can definitely feel the difference – especially coming off using a hulking device like the Legion Go.
 Otherwise, the only change is that it has a red power button now and a green power light. If you need a refresher on some of its basics, refer back to my original review of the 2022 model (see link above), which has since been updated to reflect the software and game compatibility improvements made over the past two years.
The bright new OLED screen solves my biggest problem with the Steam Deck The main difference — and it’s a major one — is the display. The new screen is about .4 inches larger than that of the base Steam Deck, expanding into the bezel without changing the size of the system. It’s not as noticeable an increase as on the Nintendo Switch OLED , but I’ll never complain about getting a little more space on a portable screen.
More importantly, the device now uses an OLED display instead of the original model’s washed-out LCD screen. That’s a significant upgrade that was necessary to keep the system competitive. Rivals like the Ayaneo 2S and Legion Go used that original weakness to pounce on Valve with crystal clear displays that made the Steam Deck feel cheap by comparison. I was ready to pack up my old Steam Deck when I got my Legion Go earlier this month, but the bright new OLED screen solves my biggest problem with the device.
Steam Deck LCD (top) and Steam Deck OLED Giovanni Colantonio / Digital Trends You might not notice the difference at a passing glance, but it becomes very apparent when placing the old and new screens side by side. My base Steam Deck almost looks like it has a white veil draped on top of it, softening its visuals. That veil is entirely lifted with the new model, allowing games to display with much sharper contrast and brighter colors. The colorful world of Baldur’s Gate 3 comes to life here, while Diablo 4 gets to show off its deep darkness in pitch black caves.
That screen also comes with a much welcome refresh rate boost. It’s a 90Hz display, allowing games to easily push past the 60 frames-per-second (fps) bar when possible. I was able to reach those heights in smaller indies like The Wreck , showing that the machine is perfectly capable of delivering. For dedicated Steam Deck owners who use theirs religiously, that upgrade alone makes it worth it.
Power and battery tweaks Casual Steam Deck owners might not notice some of the device’s smaller changes, but they add up to make the refresh worthwhile. For one, the OLED model features a slightly tweaked AMD chip with a 6-nanometer process node compared to the base model’s 7. The layman’s version of that spec is that the chip isn’t more powerful, but rather more efficient in how it uses its power. You might only get a few extra frames out of any given game, but that helps make sure that those that struggled to hit the 60 fps mark consistently now have a better shot at stability.
Jacob Roach / Digital Trends Take Horizon Zero Dawn , for instance. While it tops out at 56 fps on the LCD model, it now hits a stable 60 fps on the OLED. The more drastic result in our tests came from Dying Light 2: Stay Human , which saw a full six frame performance increase. Smaller games that push past the 60 fps mark see noticeable improvements too.
Strange Brigade jumps from 79 fps to 84 fps, which is a change you’ll actually be able to take advantage of on the OLED’s 90Hz display.
Jacob Roach / Digital Trends These results aren’t a massive change, but they do put the Steam Deck more in line with rivals like the Asus ROG Ally. The Ally still squeezes out a few more frames in games like Returnal , but the Steam Deck OLED only lagged by three to five frames in our tests.
Horizon Zero Dawn , on the other hand, now performs just the same on the OLED as it does on the Ally. With the Steam Deck’s refreshed pricing model, the extra power is no longer a checkmate for pricier alternatives.
Another big change comes in the system’s battery tweaks. Poor battery was one of the Steam Deck’s biggest issues at launch, with new games like Elden Ring struggling to last an hour without some significant tweaking. Valve has done a fantastic job since day one to squeeze more juice out of the battery with software updates, but the OLED model is a more drastic hardware update.
Those who mostly use the system to play 2D games like Dead Cells will see the most returns.
A 30-minute session with Vampire Survivors running at 90 fps consumed only a little more than 5% of my battery. I can get between six and seven hours in that game, which is long enough to last an entire cross-country flight. The more expansive the game, the less you’ll notice the change.
The Wreck , a 3D narrative indie, drains the battery in closer to four hours while Diablo 4 kills it in around two. Granted, this is all just using out of the box settings, so there’s plenty of room to squeeze way more out of games. Those who mostly use the system to play 2D games like Dead Cells will see the most returns.
All of these changes go hand in hand with the OLED model’s improved thermals, which lead to a few additional improvements that those who use their Steam Deck every day will notice. It doesn’t get as hot, the fan is significantly quieter, and it doesn’t smell as bad. Yes, I sniffed fumes out of both systems’ top vents to test this and can confirm that the OLED does not smell like burning plastic. A weird test, but it sure beats licking Switch cartridges.
Other extras There are a few other extras packed in, though they’re more built for specific players. Those who like tinkering with their system will notice that it’s easier to open, but slightly harder to tool around with due to one surprising ribbon cable change. I imagine 99% of Steam Deck owners will never notice that; that’s something for techies like us to obsess over. More useful is the fact that the system now supports Wi-Fi 6E. If you’re able to take advantage of that, you’ll enjoy some significantly improved download speeds. It took me less than an hour to download the enormous Baldur’s Gate 3 , while Senior Computing Staff Writer Jacob Roach installed 45 games on his in eight hours.
Giovanni Colantonio / Digital Trends As an added bonus, the limited edition OLED model comes with a redesigned carrying case that includes a Velcro strap on top of the outside zipper. That’s great for people like me who often toss it into the case and drop it in my messenger bag unzipped in a hurry. The Velcro strap gives me a much quicker way to secure it in those moments, though I wouldn’t line up for a preorder just for that feature alone. The inside padding in the case can also be removed entirely to make it smaller, which gives it some welcome flexibility.
There’s one change here that’s perhaps more crucial than anything I’ve mentioned so far: It’s cheaper than the old version. While the LCD model still has the lowest barrier to entry with its $400 256GB variant, the OLED edition gives the handheld a price cut. The 512GB edition is $550, while the 1TB version costs $650. Previously, you were paying $650 for the 512GB LCD model, so that’s a $100 price drop. And if you want more storage, you can double it for the same price as the old high-end version. Considering that more powerful rivals like the Asus ROG Ally weren’t too far off from the Steam Deck’s old high-end model, the new price structure is crucial in making sure the Steam Deck is still the best balance of price, storage, and power.
The Steam Deck OLED is finally the PC gaming companion I always hoped it would be one day.
The ultimate question is more of an existential one: Does it really make sense to buy a Steam Deck right now? We’ve already seen competition heat up fast in the portable PC space, with devices like the Ayaneo 2S quickly outpacing Valve in power and performance. Considering that new big-budget games are only getting more demanding, it’s only going to get harder to run new releases like Alan Wake 2 on the machine with each passing year. Even if Valve isn’t immediately plotting a Steam Deck 2 for next year, I have to imagine one isn’t too far behind. I wouldn’t blame you for waiting.
That said, this feels like the exact right moment to hop in. With crucial changes to display and battery, the OLED model fixes the launch edition’s two most pressing issues. Your comfort will vary and its complicated Linux browser isn’t for everyone, but try using a Windows device like the Legion Go if you think the grass is greener on the other side. Even without top-of-the-line power, the Steam Deck perseveres because it’s still the most convenient handheld PC on the market. It has never been easier to load up a Steam game on the go and doing so looks even better now.
After years of skepticism, the Steam Deck OLED is finally the PC gaming companion I always hoped it would be one day. And it took less than two years to get there.
Editors' Recommendations The best handheld gaming PCs you can buy Steam Deck OLED fixes the worst part of Valve’s handheld Steam Summer Sale: best deals, how long is the sale, and more No joke — Asus is releasing a Steam Deck competitor Steam Replay 2022: what it is and how to see it Computing PC Gaming Product Reviews Video Game System Reviews Gaming The handheld market has always been dominated by Nintendo. It essentially invented it with the original GameBoy, and each subsequent device has only gone on to be more popular and financially successful, leading all the way to the hybrid Nintendo Switch console. Others have attempted to break into that lucrative market, PlayStation most notably with its PSP and PS Vita handhelds, but every other company has backed out for failing to hit that sweet spot of price, power, and compelling software. Enter the Steam Deck.
Marketed as a portal PC, the Steam Deck has all the potential to be a strong competitor to Nintendo's Switch. The console is an almost completely open platform and is much more powerful, though it does have a much bigger price tag attached. However, if it really can run all your Steam games, that extra upfront cost could be worth it to take your library of hundreds of games wherever you go. That's assuming all your games will work on the Steam Deck. So far, not every game on Steam has been verified to work on the handheld, so we've compiled a full list of what we know you can play right now on your Steam Deck.
Gaming The Steam Deck is the newest handheld to hit the market and aims to compete head-to-head with the likes of the Nintendo Switch. Unlike the Switch, the Steam Deck isn't meant to double as a home console but is more like the Switch Lite in that it is only usable in its handheld form. Also unlike the Switch, this little machine is a beast in terms of power. With access to your Steam library, there needs to be a lot of processing and graphical power to make these games run as well as PC gamers expect.
While not every game you have in your library is available to play via the Steam Deck, a good number are. If you have a Steam library as large as most people do, then sifting through all those titles in your backlog to see what to play on your brand-new device might take all day. Instead, we've gone through all the currently verified games that play on your Steam Deck and selected the best ones to try out first.
Gaming Valve has announced that it is running a beta test for an updated version of Big Picture Mode for the desktop version of Steam. According to a blog post published on Thursday, the proprietary UI is being updated to make the desktop interface look like the Steam Deck.
The updated version of Big Picture Mode comes with a host of new features, including a new home screen that lets you continue playing recent games and check for updates of any games in your library with a new universal search that nets results from your library, your friends list, and the store. It also brings updates to quick access, controller configuration, and system menus.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
