Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch In partnership with Home Smart Home Deals Teleport Ride: No other e-bike comes close in range, power, and speed Teleport Ride One of the major concerns with e-bikes, or electric bikes, is that many have a reasonable range, but they still pose limitations on your ride — between 30 to 60 miles per charge. If you want to travel longer distances, you’re going to need to plan out your entire trip to make sure you have somewhere to charge the battery. It’s not like you can’t use e-bikes when the battery dies; you can still keep pedaling, but that negates access to an electric option. But what if there was an e-bike equipped with self-charging technology? As you ride, it stores kinetic energy, converting it to electricity to keep the battery charged. That’s what Teleport Ride’s regenerative braking technology does in its innovative e-bike.
A super-lightweight, aerospace-grade frame sets the foundation Let’s pedal back to the self-charging technology Teleport Ride: It can go the distance When you pedal, glide, or brake, it recovers the kinetic energy built up by the bike and converts it to electricity. It’s the same technology used in modern electric vehicles. But it also ensures that you can travel up to 100 miles or more with no issues. The regenerative braking and supersized battery — to store more power — keep the electricity topped up. That way, you can ride further and faster than ever before, thanks to a 28-mile-per-hour top speed. That’s not all this futuristic e-bike has to offer, though. Let’s take a closer look.
A super-lightweight, aerospace-grade frame sets the foundation Teleport Ride The heavier the bike or frame, the more power is required to keep it moving. It’s basic science, right? But at the same time, heavier materials tend to be sturdier. That’s not always true, but it’s still relevant here. Why? Because the Teleport Ride e-bike is composed of a super-lightweight and aerospace-grade aluminum frame. It keeps the entire bike more maneuverable and aerodynamic and takes less power to propel by proxy. Yet, that’s still achieved in a tough and durable format with a versatile bike that can handle almost any terrain.
The unique design also hides the electronic parts to keep things stylish but also gives you a quieter ride. It pairs nicely with the whisper-quiet Sine Wave controller, Gates Carbon Drive Belt for quieter, smoother rides, and an Italian leather saddle and grips — the latter providing extra comfort. Hydraulic disk brakes ensure reliability and on-point braking, and an integrated OLED display will show you all the information you need to know, including top speed, battery life, and more.
Shop Now Let’s pedal back to the self-charging technology Teleport Ride The design is excellent. The hardware is lightweight, quiet, and reliable, and the frame is premium quality, to say the least. But the real star of the show is the self-charging technology that gives the Teleport Ride its impressive longevity each time you take it out for a spin. Even with a 750-watt powerful rear hub engine, the Teleport Ride can last for up to 100 miles or more. That can be attributed to two features: The self-charging regen braking technology and the supersized rechargeable battery.
The battery holds more electricity, if you will, for longer rides anyway. But while you’re riding, you build up kinetic energy that’s being converted into electricity by the regen braking system, which in turn charges the battery. Pedaling, braking, and gliding at speed will all charge the battery during your ride. You don’t have to stop, plug it in, and wait for it to charge. It charges on the fly, on the road.
That powerful motor offers enough power to get you through a particularly dull stretch of road, up hilly terrain, over tough, even ground, and much more. It assists you while riding to lessen the amount of effort you have to put forth. You can relax and enjoy the ride, no matter where or what you’re riding over. The insane 80Nm torque rating with 28 miles per hour top speed adds to the Teleport Ride’s versatility — imagine dominating even the steepest of hills you’ve ever traversed with ease.
Teleport Ride: It can go the distance Teleport Ride Whether you want a smooth, relaxing ride or you want to push yourself on a long, strenuous journey to get some solid exercise, the Teleport Ride should be your main vehicle of choice. No other e-bike offers the range, power, and speed Teleport Ride does. You could keep going and going with this beast, like a certain energetic bunny.
Shop Now Editors' Recommendations The Aventon Abound cargo ebike is perfect for grocery trips, hauling gear, and more This Labor Day electric bike deal at REI cuts 20% off the price Deals Outdoors e-Bikes Deals There's never been a better time to spring for sustainable and portable power options, especially with BLUETTI offering some great Black Friday deals, plus an exclusive discount -- which we'll tell you more about in a second. These deals also coincide with a brand new release from the brand, with the debut of the BLUETTI AC200L portable solar generator and power station. It features a 2400-watt output, 2,048-watt-hour capacity, and a 1,200-watt solar input for speedy charging. It's a sleek newcomer that can be boosted to 3,600 watts in a PowerLifting mode for your extensive yet adaptable energy needs. More on that new station and the great deals below.
For a limited time, from November 17 until November 30, Digital Trends readers can use the coupon code DT100 at checkout to receive an extra $20 off. Yes, that code stacks with existing Black Friday deals.
Deals Vacuums are expensive. Feature-rich vacuums, especially wet-dry vacuums that can handle all spills, are even pricier. Recognizing that there’s a gap in the market for more affordable options, Eureka has delivered one for under $200. Get excited. They're perfect for cleaning sticky messes, whether you made them, your kids, or your pets. But the most important distinction is that wet and dry vacuums can vacuum and mop all in one go, and you don't have to swap out devices, attachments, or anything else. At least, that's the case with Eureka's excellent NEW400 wet and dry all-in-one vacuum. It's even self-propelled to make it easier on you -- and it takes less effort to glide around your floors.
Here's the best part of all, though. For Black Friday, running from November 17 to November 27, you can save big on the Eureka NEW400, which is discounted to $140 instead of its normal $200 price. That's a total savings of $60, but really, even more, considering you're not having to buy a separate vacuum and mop. You can grab that deal below right now or keep reading to learn a little more about what the NEW400 has to offer.
Buy Now Why you should buy the Eureka NEW400 wet and dry vacuum during Black Friday Smart Home Vitamix makes some of the best blenders around, and they're a great investment if you plan on putting them to work every day. With Black Friday deals going on right now, this is your chance to upgrade to a great blender for a similarly excellent price. We've picked out the very best Vitamix blender deal below along with some other options you might want to consider buying.
Best Vitamix blender Black Friday deal Vitamix Explorian E310 blender -- $290, was $350 The Vitamix Explorian E310 blender is perfect for making a variety of different textures and liquids. It has 10 variable speeds plus a pulse setting so you can easily use it to prepare soup, make fresh salsa, or even knead dough. It has a powerful 2 HP motor for handling even the toughest of ingredients while its 48 ounce container is perfect for formulating medium-size batches of whatever you're cooking. It's easily cleaned in the dishwasher or you can add soap and warm water and the machine can clean itself in just 30 to 60 seconds.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
