Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Phones Best Tablets Tesla Phone Download Android 14 Best Android Phones Home Mobile Features Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? This e-bike does phone tech better than some phones By Sascha Brodsky Close What if riding your bike was like using a smartphone? That’s the proposition behind the new Urtopia E-bike, which offers features more commonly associated with a product from Samsung or Apple rather than a bicycle manufacturer.
High-tech biking A bike with Bluetooth Radar for safety What about the bike? The carbon-fiber Urtopia has a built-in 4G connection, voice control, a fingerprint ID, and other technology. I have spent time riding the bike and playing with the tech and came away with the impression that this bike is both fun to ride and a gadget-lover’s dream.
High-tech biking Just like your phone, the Urtopia has a built-in 4G data connection that will let you track the bike if it’s lost or stolen. The cellular connectivity also lets Urtopia push out automatic software updates to the bike.
Sascha Brodsky/Digital Trends There is a touch button that doubles as a fingerprint reader on the right side of the handlebar. The idea is once you set up your bike, it will be personalized to your finger, theoretically making it theft-resistant. The fingerprint reader was easy to set up and worked well in my tests. However, the bike is light enough that a potential thief could just ignore the locking feature and pick it up.
5 things this $1,100 foldable does better than the Galaxy Z Fold 4 6 years later, the iPhone X still does one thing better than the iPhone 14 Pro Android does this one thing so much better than iOS, and it drives me crazy The fingerprint button doubles as an electronic “bell” that makes warning sounds in case pedestrians get in your way while riding. You can choose from various sounds for the bell, which is fun. There aren’t any other bikes that I’m aware of that come with a built-in fingerprint reader, so this alone is enough to make the Urtopia unique. You can buy third-party bike locks with fingerprint readers like the SL Elite.
The heart of the Urtopia is an integrated display that uses charmingly retro LED dot-matrix display technology. The Smartbar, as the company calls it, lets you see the bike’s speed, modes, and notifications. The display is bright enough to be easily seen in bright sunlight, but glare made photographing it difficult.
A bike with Bluetooth Like every smartphone , the Urtopia comes with Bluetooth built-in. I paired the bike to my iPhone 12 Pro Max using the Urtopia app that’s available from the Apple App Store. Setup took just a few clicks and I was then able to unlock my bike using Bluetooth. The app also uses Bluetooth to display a map of your rides, and how much CO2 you saved by riding your bike instead of using a car.
Sascha Brodsky/Digital Trends Like many smartphones — but unlike any bike I’ve ever encountered — you can actually speak to the Smartbar. The voice recognition lets you do things like turn the headlights off and on and increase the power level. I was skeptical that the voice recognition would work while I was riding, but it had no trouble understanding me even in heavy traffic or on a windy day.
It did seem a little odd to be talking to my bike. Other riders gave me some strange looks when I told my Urtopia to turn the integrated headlights on. I enjoyed using the voice control but I’m not sure how much value it adds compared to button controls.
Perhaps the most practical part of Urtopia’s many techie features are the seemingly mundane built-in turn signals. With the click of a button, you can turn on a pair of turn indicator projection lights that shine down onto the road. During my daylight rides, the turn lights are useful but on the dim side so I supplemented them with hand signals to let cars know where I was heading. The real utility of the turn signals became apparent after dark when they projected onto the road and it would have been too dark for me to signal using my arms.
Radar for safety Things start to get weird, but in a good way, when you start playing around with the Smartbar. First of all, the bike gives you audible notifications through a 3-watt speaker. The sounds are loud enough to be easily heard over traffic noises, but the beeps also got me a fair amount of attention as I rode through New York City.
Sascha Brodsky/Digital Trends Another unusual feature of the Urtopia is the built-in millimeter-wave radar. The radar is rear-facing, and it’s intended to help you watch out for cars or other bike riders that might be creeping up behind you. It wasn’t immediately apparent how you are supposed to interact with the radar, so I was surprised when a calm but stern voice called out from my bike to “watch out behind.” The radar had automatically detected a taxi zipping down the road. This feature seems like it could be incredibly useful in the violent video game that is riding a bike in New York.
Radar detection has become standard on cars, but it’s still not common on bikes. Electronics manufacturer Garmin makes bicycle-mounted radar called Varia , while the bike maker Cannondale recently introduced an integrated version of the Varia in some of its models.
What about the bike? The design of the Urtopia is unusual enough to signal that it’s no ordinary bike. The carbon frame has a lightning bolt-shaped top tube that bends into a section of the seat post and then down to the seat stay. The frame neatly hides a 360 watt-hour Samsung Lithium-ion battery. Urtopia claims you will get a range of 30 to 80 miles depending on your weight and the power level you use. I got around 50 miles of range in my tests with the power set to the middle.
It’s also a lot like your phone in many ways, making it feel very familiar The carbon-fiber frame is light for an e-bike at around 30 pounds. It’s also stiff enough to make riding a pleasure even when you run out of power. Keep in mind, though, that the Urtopia is single speed, which makes it great for flying around town but less suitable for hills.
I’m a longtime bike rider, but a poor mechanic, so I was a little nervous to find that I would have to assemble the Urtopia myself. Urtopia is a direct-to-consumer company, which means that the bike is shipped to your home in a cardboard box. You need to set the bike up yourself, but fortunately, this is a simple process that took me less than 15 minutes. It’s mostly a matter of putting on the pedals and charging up the battery.
For a tech lover who wants a futuristic bike, the Urtopia is in a class of its own. The single speed and limited battery capacity aren’t ideal for hardcore riders, but for $2,799, the Urtopia delivers many unique features and a lightweight carbon frame. It’s also a lot like your phone in many ways, making it feel very familiar, even if it is $1,000 more than a Samsung Galaxy Z Fold 3.
Editors' Recommendations 4 things Android phones still do better than the iPhone 15 Samsung’s $450 phone does one thing way better than the iPhone 14 I love the Galaxy S23 — here are 5 things the iPhone still does better More than 5 billion mobile phones to become waste this year Our phones are more addictive than ever — is there a way back? e-Bikes Features Mobile The $450 Samsung Galaxy A53 5G is one of our top recommendations if you want a reliable, attractive, and capable everyday smartphone at a reasonable price. But it's not a flagship device with the best processor or a dedicated gaming phone with extra buttons and a massive screen. So how does it cope with Diablo Immortal, one of the biggest mobile game releases of the year? That's what we wanted to find out.
The power within We've played Diablo Immortal on the Samsung Galaxy S22 Ultra, the iPhone 13 Pro, and the Asus ROG Phone 5 — just to name a few. But all these have fast, powerful processors inside, so it's no surprise the game plays very well. The Galaxy A53 5G has Samsung's more modest Exynos 1280 for power and either 6GB or 8GB of RAM. The 5nm octa-core chip uses two ARM Cortex A78 cores and six ARM Cortex A55 cores, plus the Mali G68 GPU, which Samsung says is designed for great graphics and low energy consumption.
The screen is a 6.5-inch Super AMOLED one with a 120Hz refresh rate, a 2400 x 1080 pixel resolution, and an 800 nits peak brightness. It's covered in flat glass, and the 8.1mm thick, 189-gram plastic chassis means the phone doesn't feel too light or difficult to grip. Diablo Immortal is a massive install and takes up 9.12GB of space in its entirety — a large chunk of the A53's 128GB of internal storage. It's a good thing the Galaxy A53 has a MicroSD card slot because, with Diablo Immortal installed, you may end up needing it.
Mobile It wasn’t that long ago that the camera on a Huawei smartphone was considered one of the best in the business. Its most recent release is the Huawei P50 Pro, and while the camera looks impressive again, the device itself has been overshadowed by the lack of 5G and the continued inability to use Google Mobile Services.
However, if the camera remains one of the very best there is, you could feasibly work your way around the lack of Google Play, and arguably, do you really even need 5G yet? To see if the camera on the P50 Pro is worth making a few changes to your mobile lifestyle, we put it up against the Google Pixel 6 Pro. It’s a serious challenge, as the Pixel’s camera is superb. Here’s how it fared.
The cameras Let’s deal with the specification before looking at the photos. The Huawei P50 Pro has a 50-megapixel main camera with optical image stabilization (OIS) and an f/1/8 aperture, joined by a 64MP periscope zoom also with OIS and a 3.5x optical zoom. There’s also a 13MP wide-angle camera and a 40MP monochrome camera. The Pixel 6 Pro also has a 50MP main camera with optical image stabilization, plus a 48MP telephoto camera for a 4x optical zoom and a 12MP wide-angle camera.
Mobile Rumors have been swirling lately that Apple is planning to ditch the physical SIM card on upcoming iPhone models — a transition that could happen as soon as this fall, when we’re expecting to see the iPhone 14 released.
However, while many analysts believe that such a move is inevitable, most agree that it’s probably not going to happen all at once. There are simply too many moving parts in the mobile industry for Apple to make a unilateral decision and move its entire series to eSIM.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
