Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Windows 12 GTA 5 Cheats Wordle Today iPhone 15 Deals Upcoming Movies Nintendo Switch 2 NYT Connections Today Google Pixel 8 Pro Review Home Gaming Guides Suicide Squad: Kill the Justice League: release date, trailers, gameplay, and more By Jesse Lennox Close Rocksteady made a name for itself as one of the first teams to make a universally acclaimed superhero game with Batman: Arkham Asylum.
It followed that success with two sequels, the even more beloved Batman: Arkham City and the divisive, though still fantastic Batman: Arkham Knight.
Fans were left waiting to hear what this studio would tackle next. Most assumed it would be another DC property, since it is owned by Warner Bros. Games, and those suspicions turned out to be right on the money, though with a property not many would have predicted.
Release date Platforms Trailers Gameplay Multiplayer DLC Preorder Suicide Squad: Kill the Justice League was given a formal announcement as the newest project from Rocksteady at the DC FanDome event in 2020. At the time, outside of the graphic novels, of course, we only had the one flop of a film based on this antihero group, so many fans were hesitant to see Rocksteady tackle this property. Now that we’ve gotten a few trailers and footage of gameplay, however, it has become clear that Rocksteady hasn’t lost its touch. We took on this suicide mission for you and made off with all the details you need to know about Suicide Squad: Kill the Justice League.
Release date Image used with permission by copyright holder Suicide Squad: Kill the Justice League was supposed to arrive on May 26, 2023, but Rocksteady recently announced that it’s pushing the game back to February 2, 2024. “We have made the tough but necessary decision to take the time needed to work on getting the game to be the best quality experience for players,” said the company in the delay announcement pic.twitter.com/iycWye9X42 &mdash; Suicide Squad: Kill The Justice League (@suicidesquadRS) April 13, 2023 Platforms Image used with permission by copyright holder Suicide Squad: Kill the Justice League is confirmed for all current-gen systems, those being the Xbox Series X and S, PlayStation 5, and PC.
GTA 6: release date speculation, trailer, news, rumors, and more RoboCop: Rogue City: release date speculation, trailers, gameplay, and more Final Fantasy 7 Rebirth: release date, trailers, gameplay, and more Trailers The first true trailer for Suicide Squad: Kill the Justice League came at the 2021 Game Awards. This trailer was just shy of three minutes, but was our first real look at the game in action. We open on Captain Boomerang recording a video of himself taunting the squad’s current target, The Flash, before he is interrupted by the man himself. Other heroes mentioned included Superman, Wonder Woman, and Green Lantern.
After a cut we learn from Deadshot that The Flash is, for reasons unknown, either working for or under the control of the villain Brainiac. After the orders to kill him are repeated, the squad leaps into action in a montage showing how each member will move through the city and fight the mutated techno monsters. Eventually, they encounter Flash again and engage in combat. We get a close look at his face, with glowing red eyes and dark veins showing through his cheeks, heavily implying some form of mind control.
The trailer rolls on with a ton more gameplay footage, which we will cover in the next section, before one last encounter with The Flash. This time, he runs circles around the squad, literally, to create a massive tornado. It ends with Captain Boomerang about to throw a boomerang at Flash, who is somehow charging up some kind of energy ball between his hands. After a cut, it appears like the Suicide Squad has won — until a giant explosion of light cuts their celebration off.
Taking a step back for those who might be confused, what even is the Suicide Squad? Well, in this game specifically, they are a group composed of DC villains such as Harley Quinn, Captain Boomerang, Deadshot, and King Shark, who are contracted by a woman named Amanda Waller. Their mission? Well, kill the Justice League, obviously. So far, we know this version of the Justice League will at least be composed of Superman, Wonder Woman, Green Lantern, and The Flash, if the names Captain Boomerang threw out are any indication. Other possible members, based on other iterations of the superhero team, could include Martian Manhunter, Aquaman, Green Arrow, Hawkman, Cyborg, and more. Naturally, we don’t expect them all to appear, but there may be a few surprises.
We can also reasonably expect Batman to be in this game as well since Rocksteady has confirmed that Suicide Squad: Kill the Justice League will take place in the same universe as the Arkham series. Without spoiling Arkham Knight, though, that would all depend on when this game takes place in that series.
The big baddie, though, definitely seems to be Brainiac. Not only does he seem to have somehow taken control of the Justice League members, but the entire city the game takes place in as well, with giant mechanical creatures and structures all over.
While the February 2023 State of Play trailer was focused on co-op gameplay, it did give some interesting story beats to look at. Once again, the trailer centers around the squad hunting down The Flash and rescuing Lex Luthor. First, the team needs to destroy a massive mortar.
Once they take it down and are about to save Lex, they are overwhelmed by Flash. Wonder Woman appears and is the first member of the League we’ve seen free from Brainiac’s control. She uses her lasso of truth to subdue The Flash and learns that the only way to save the Justice League, and the world, from Brainiac, is to kill the Justice League.
After going dark after the last delay, Suicide Squad: Kill the Justice League came back with the first insider video focusing on story and gameplay. The major new face we see as the team explores Metropolis is Green Lantern, which was expected, but had yet to be revealed. The team also made it a point to show off how the tone of this game will be much less dark than the Arkham games. This is meant to match the team’s more improvisational style and the frenetic shooting the game focuses on. Future episodes are expected to detail how post-launch support will work, which may include story content. That doesn’t mean the base game will lack story, as the team notes that Suicide Squad: Kill the Justice League has the most cutscecnes of any game made to date.
Gameplay Image used with permission by copyright holder Not to be confused with Gotham Knights, Suicide Squad: Kill the Justice League is an open-world game where you can play on your own, or with three friends in co-op. If played alone, you will pick one of the Squad to control directly, with the ability to jump between them at will. Anyone not being controlled will have an AI take over. It will be set in the open world of Metropolis, which you will be able to explore in a variety of ways.
With there being four main characters, each one has its own spin on how they will play. At the core, it appears that the basics of gameplay will be an expanded version of what we got with the Arkham series. We see tons of flashy attacks, grapples, and special moves unique to each character, as well as a more robust system of ranged options and different modes of traversal. Each member moves through the world in their own unique way based on their equipment or powers, giving a different feel to each member you choose to play as.
King Shark, for example, can make giant leaps, sprint straight up walls somewhat like The Hulk or Spider-Man, and has hand-to-hand strikes, grabs, a pair of hook weapons, and a mini-gun for ranged attacks. Deadshot, on the other hand, moves around via his jetpack, fires with automatic and explosive weapons, and can get slightly close-up with his gauntlet guns. We don’t know if the rhythmic-based combat that made the Arkham games so satisfying will return, or if it will be more of a traditional third-person action game.
The structure of the game, outside of it being an open world, also remains a question mark. That open world also has been touted as being even larger than the city featured in Arkham Knight.
We hope that it would allow players to pick and choose which member of the Justice League we want to pursue, though it will probably keep Superman locked off until last. Maybe we could even accidentally run into a member when we weren’t expecting it. Reclaiming the city from Brainiac’s control is another system we highly suspect. Liberating areas from the strange fodder creatures we see and weakening his grip on the city may play a role in freeing the League from his control. What we do know is that these boss battles are expected to be the highlights of the entire experience.
There will be six weapon types, as well as different gear types you can equip that all have different effects, strengths, and weaknesses. This also influences your character’s gear score, which will dictate which missions you can take on.
Thankfully, you can wear any costume you want without having to worry about it impacting your stats or gear score.
Multiplayer Image used with permission by copyright holder Yes, Suicide Squad: Kill the Justice League is built to be a single-player and co-op experience. This is a first for Rocksteady but makes sense given the team-based nature of the game. You can play with up to three of your friends together, each taking a different member into battle. What we don’t know is how they will handle progression. This has been tricky for developers as of late so we just hope that it isn’t another situation where only the host player makes or keeps progress, but we will have to wait on the specifics on this one.
DLC Image used with permission by copyright holder Rocksteady has confirmed that it will support Suicide Squad: Kill the Justice League after launch with new characters, weapons, and missions. Whether these will be free or paid is still unclear. The team also announced a Battle Pass with cosmetics items to unlock, which we also don’t know the details of as of yet.
Preorder Image used with permission by copyright holder While we did get the May 26, 2023, release date for Suicide Squad: Kill the Justice League , preorders have yet to show up on retail sites. We’ll update you as soon as they do.
Editors' Recommendations Divisive Suicide Squad game’s newest look emphasizes story over live service Marathon: release date speculation, trailers, gameplay, and more Cities: Skylines 2: release date, trailers, gameplay, and more Marvel’s Spider-Man 2: release date, trailers, gameplay, and more Super Mario RPG: release date, trailers, gameplay, and more Comic Book Movies DC Comics Gaming Are you ready to test your might? After a small leak and a couple of teases on Twitter, Mortal Kombat 1 has been confirmed to be the next entry in the best-selling fighting game series of all time. Developer NetherRealm typically alternates between franchises, so many people expected their next project to be a new Injustice since Mortal Kombat 11 was their last release in 2019. That is evidently not the plan, but this also isn't the Mortal Kombat 12 that would logically follow. The series already saw something of a reboot with Mortal Kombat 9, so what's going on with Mortal Kombat 1? Choose your fighter and memorize your fatality button inputs, because we're breaking down all the gory details of Mortal Kombat 1.
Release date Mortal Kombat 1 will be ready for kombat on September 19, 2023. However, there will also be an early access period for those who purchase either the Premium or Kollector's Edition of the game. This early access will begin on September 14 at 10 a.m. PT.
Platforms This fighter is ditching last-gen consoles and will launch on PS5, Xbox Series X/S, PC, and, most surprisingly, Nintendo Switch.
Trailers Mortal Kombat 1 - Official Announce Trailer | PS5 Games Gaming Horror games have an interesting lineage. Most gamers' first real exposure to what we consider the template for "modern" horror was the original Resident Evil or, perhaps, Silent Hill. However, even those games had clear influences. One was a somewhat obscure Japanese game called Sweet Home, but in terms of 3D horror, Alone in the Dark was an experience like nothing else. Based on the unique cosmic horror writing of H.P. Lovecraft, this series, unfortunately, saw a fast fall from grace with the arrival of its sequels.
Despite a few leaks, most were still caught off guard by the announcement that Alone in the Dark would not only be coming back, but the new game would apparently be a reboot of the series that aims to take it back to its survival-horror roots. There are nearly as many mysteries surrounding the revival of this historic IP as there are in its narrative, but we've braved the dark corners of the internet to bring you everything we know about Alone in the Dark.
Release date Gaming S.T.A.L.K.E.R. 2: Heart of Chornobyl is the next hotly anticipated entry in the S.T.A.L.K.E.R. franchise. The game is releasing over 13 years after the last entry in the series, and it's making its debut on consoles as an Xbox Series X exclusive.
GSC Game World, just one of the many European developers, is currently in the midst of an aggressive invasion from Russian forces that has caused their entire lives to be disrupted. In their efforts to support their country's freedom, the team has put development on pause to "help our employees and their families to survive." Other game companies, such as EA and CD Projekt, have also shown support for the Ukrainian people by halting sales and the representation of Russia in their games.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
