Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Outdoors Features Like Braille for your ears, Action Audio wordlessly translates sports into sound By Luke Dormehl Close THWOK. Ponk. Thwok. Ponk. THWOK. PONK. Thwok. Cheering intensifies. Ponk. THWOK. The squeak of sneakers on asphalt. PONK. Pause. Enthusiastic applause.
So commentary, basically? Beyond the Australian Open Recognize it? Of course you don’t. It is, in fact, Roger Federer’s “ impossible shot ” against Andre Agassi in the quarterfinals of the 2005 Dubai Tennis Championships. It’s about as perfect a moment of tennis as one could hope to witness, rendered unintelligible by the fact that it’s reproduced here as an abstract soundscape.
As easy to follow as tennis is visually, on an audioscape level, it’s as tough to follow as an episode of Twin Peaks you’ve switched on halfway through. That’s a challenge engineers from Tennis Australia, digital design and communications agency AKQA, and Monash University in Melbourne, Australia are working to solve with something called Action Audio. It’s an online audio stream that was developed for last month’s Australian Open broadcasts to assist the 285 million people globally — many of whom are tennis fans — living with blindness or a visual impairment.
“An easy way to understand it is … are you familiar with audio descriptions?” Tim Devine, AKQA’s executive creative director, told Digital Trends. “A lot of blind and low-vision people use them. This is kind of an abstract version of audio descriptions to give people more information about what’s happening [on the court].” So commentary, basically? There is, of course, a kind of audio description that’s existed in sport for years — and it’s the same one that allows sports fans to listen to sport on the radio, where images aren’t exactly in plentiful supply. But audio commentary from pundits isn’t the same thing as being able to watch a game and come to your own conclusions. The idea of Action Audio is to take images of the actions on court, and then to turn these into an unobtrusive action cue language — with different sounds to illustrate forehands, backhands, nail-bitingly close shots, and more.
“[We wanted people to be able to] make their own appraisal of what’s happening on the court,” Devine said. “So they can have their own insights, rather than just having the insights created by a commentator. They have more information. They’re able to say, ‘wow, Federer’s really hammering the backhand tonight.’ Without Action Audio, they couldn’t have that insight because no one’s telling them ‘that’s a backhand’ or ‘that’s a forehand.’ But you can do that very easily with abstract audio signals.” The technology works by using 3D spatial data from a high-speed camera/computer vision system called Hawk-Eye , which tracks ball position in real time for electronic line calling for scoring purposes. This information is then transformed into 3D audio, turning actions into individual sound cues, while also shifting where the sound appears to be coming from in order to allow fans to get a sense of where the ball is on the court at any particular moment. “We deconstruct sport to reconstruct it as sound,” Devine said.
He noted that the project was inspired by neuroscientist David Eagleman’s sensory substitution technology. Eagleman, who Digital Trends interviewed last year , has long explored sensory substitution that’s able to, for instance, capture sound and turn it into vibratory patterns on a wearable vest or wristband. This could be used to allow a deaf person to understand what a person is saying when they speak.
“If you think about it, every signal that comes into the body, no matter what sense it is, is abstract, right?” Devine said. “We just learn to decode that signal. So there’s no reason why we can’t create — [and learn to understand] — an abstract signal that comes through an audio channel.” Beyond the Australian Open For the Australian Open, Action Audio was available as a television audio channel as part of the broadcast. Audio cues, which could be listened to in isolation or with audio commentary, offered sounds for forehand and backhand, along with others to indicate how close the ball is to the line. Devine said that, in the future, there are opportunities to expand this — the same way that any spoken language can be used to communicate simple intentions, as well as far more detailed observations. In the future, it may even be possible for users to customize the system for themselves, either changing the specific audio cues or, potentially, adding or removing detail depending on what they want to see highlighted. The possibilities are endless.
Devine acknowledged that this is a challenging job, not just technologically, but also in ensuring they are improving the viewing experience, not detracting from it. “Hearing for a blind or low-vision person is a very meaningful and precious sense,” he noted. Elsewhere in the interview, he asserted that the team is “trying to reduce cognitive load” on users.
Having demonstrated the technology, they now hope to expand it to coverage of other tennis tournaments such as Wimbledon (which already uses some impressive A.I. tech ), the French Open, and the U.S. Open. They also believe that they can expand to other sports as well — although this will raise new challenges.
“Tennis is actually a really good example of action audio, because it’s dynamic,” Devine said. “It has moments of stopping, and moments of full action where everyone is quiet. But every sport is quite different. How could we sonify surfing? How do we give people a sense of what a surfer is doing? What do we identify? How about multiplayer events like basketball? How do we know what the information that someone who’s blind or low vision would like to hear? That’s where a codesign process will work.” There’s more work to be done, but these are certainly promising beginnings.
Features Outdoors EcoFlow, a manufacturer of portable energy solutions, has announced the launch of the Delta 2 Max -- an eco-friendly solar generator that could replace your current gas generator. The device clocks in at 2,048 watts and should deliver enough power to keep your home running for two days as an emergency backup (or many more if you’re using it as an off-grid power source).
The original Delta Max was a popular item for outdoor adventures, as it could connect to the existing lineup of portable EcoFlow solar panels to juice up gadgets while out in the backcountry. That legacy continues with the Delta 2 Max, which features an upgraded lithium iron phosphate (LFP) battery for a longer life cycle and faster charging.
Outdoors Warm weather is here, and so is grilling season. Now is as good a time as any to set out in search of one of the best outdoor grills, and it’s never a bad time to keep an eye out for a discount on one as well. Whether you’re a grilling beginner ready for some burgers with the family or a seasoned pro looking to host summer gatherings around one of the best smart grills and smokers, we’ve tracked down all of the details you need to land a deal on a grill that’s right for your needs. Read onward for more details.
Everdure CUBE charcoal grill — $150, was $199 The Everdure CUBE charcoal grill is a unique little grill that can truly go almost anywhere with you. It’s lightweight and only 17-inches long, yet still can handle almost any grilling challenge a griller on the go could hope to throw at it. It has a built-in heat protection shield and chrome handles that remain cool while cooking, and the removable charcoal tray offers easy cleanup when you’re finished at the campground or on the beach. Wherever you intend to do some grilling this summer, the Everdure CUBE charcoal grill is a great option as a copilot.
Outdoors The best electric bikes have come a long way in recent years and we don't just mean in terms of the miles you travel. With technology changing quickly, there are also an increasing number of electric bike deals around and we've picked out some of the very best. Electric bikes are a great way of getting around more easily and without necessarily needing to use as much stamina as a regular bike. Below, you'll find fantastic e-bike bike deals from many different retailers. There'll be something for every need here. Let's take a look at them.
Jasion EB5 Electric Bike -- $430, was $750 With a 350w brushless motor, the Jasion EB5 Electric Bike can achieve a top speed of 20 MPH with a range of up to 25-40 miles per charge. It has four working modes with a PAS mode where the motor assists with a moderate amount of power as you pedal, along with a Pure Electric Mode, a Pedal Mode, and a Booster Mode where the bike assist on hills and anywhere else you might be struggling. 26-inch puncture-resistant tires provide excellent durability while there's a high-strength front fork suspension, Shimano 7-speed gears, dual lights, and an LCD display. The latter offers controls for adjustable backlight brightness with one of five levels, along with mode controls.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
