Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Outdoors Reviews Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? With 2 motors and 2 batteries, the Ariel Grizzly e-bike doubles down on speed By Bruce Brown Close $3,300.00 Crazy-fast acceleration, top speed Dual batteries for longer trips Full suspension smooths the ride No-compromise components Street and off-road versatility Relatively high cost Instant power requires vigilance One charger for two batteries Bruce Brown/Digital Trends The Rule of Twos explains the success of the powerful Ariel Rider X-Class 52V Grizzly e-bike. The moped-style e-bike has high-powered motors on each wheel, dual batteries, dual suspension systems, and front and rear hydraulic disc brakes. Even with just one motor and one battery, the Grizzly would be a formidable, speedy ride, but with both batteries turned on and both motors activated, you’d better be sure you’re seated and ready to go before you twist the throttle.
The go-fast parts: dual by design With all that power, is it ridable? Hang on and hold tight Our take The Ariel Grizzly frankly isn’t a great choice for everyone, especially beginners or riders who want convenient e-bike transportation, but don’t care about going faster than 20 miles per hour. As I mentioned in the recent Rad Power Bikes RadRunner 3 Plus review , fast acceleration and high speeds aren’t the priority in e-bikes designed for versatility, where the goal is carrying young passengers or commuting.
However, the Ariel X Class 52V Grizzly’s primary purpose is high performance. Ariel Rider categorizes the Grizzly as a scrambler e-bike built for on- and off-road adventures. The result is an e-bike that focuses on seriously fast fun.
The go-fast parts: dual by design Bruce Brown/Digital Trends Ariel hits the Grizzly’s design goal by doubling up on the good stuff. Rather than settling for one Bafang 52-volt electric geared hub motor, the Grizzly has two, one on each wheel. Each motor is rated for 1,000 watts continuous power and 1,850W peak power. Compare that to the 500W continuous and 750W motors on many common e-bikes, and the Grizzly’s power boost is clear. A red rocker switch on the left side of the handlebar selects the front motor only, rear motor only, or both.
I tested the Grizzly with both front and rear motors activated because that’s how most buyers will use it. Manufacturers usually mount hub-drive e-bike motors on the back wheel. With the Grizzly’s two motors activated, both grab hard for traction when you twist the throttle. It can be a new experience if you’re accustomed to e-bikes with mid-drive-only or rear hub-only electric motors. You can’t avoid learning to respect the Grizzly’s power because there’s no subtlety about its instant torque delivery. My best advice is to be cautious, as always, but especially when you take the Grizzly for your first rides.
The Grizzly also has two lithium-ion batteries. A 52V 20-Ah battery mounts on the V-frame and a 52V 15-Ah battery installs under the seat. So that’s a combined total of 1,820 watt hours at your disposal when you start riding with both batteries fully charged. Ariel claims up to 75 miles range, but as always with e-bikes, your mileage per charge will vary depending on a myriad of factors, including how much you pedal the bike, how much you weigh, and even how smooth the road is.
You can charge both batteries on the bike, or remove them to charge in your house or garage. The first version of the Grizzly came with two battery chargers, but this edition includes one 52V 5A output charger. Each battery has an on-off power switch and a battery charge level indicator. Depending on your usage preference or range anxiety level, you may want to use the larger V-frame-mounted battery first and the under-seat battery as a secondary backup battery to get you home.
The Grizzly also has two adjustable suspension systems to suit different riding styles and rider weights. A rotating knob on the top side of the front suspension fork adjusts the compression level to control fork travel. The rear suspension uses motorcycle-like air shock absorbers that adjust with an optional shock pump.
To tame the Grizzly’s immense power, Ariel equips it with front and rear Tektro hydraulic disc brakes with substantial 180mm brake rotors. Hydraulic disc brakes deliver smoother stops, with less brake lever pressure than the more common mechanical brakes.
With all that power, is it ridable? Besides sheer speed, the third-generation Grizzly benefits from a number of creature comforts that have been added over the years. For instance, a red button on the right handlebar lets you safely disarm the throttle with a flick of the thumb, just like a motorcycle. Very few e-bikes include this feature, but when you’re moving it around in the garage with the power turned on, you’ll definitely want to avoid waking this beast up by accident. It’s also nice to deactivate the throttle when you want a serene pedal-powered cruise, rather than a ride on a rocket ship.
When I grabbed the throttle to get around a parked car, the display read 39.1 mph, the fastest I’ve ridden on an e-bike.
The Grizzly’s raised handlebars and grips allow for an ergonomic, upright riding posture, which makes it easier to see the road surface just ahead of the front wheel, as well as other traffic. You can always tuck in to lower wind resistance at higher speeds, but with the power of this bike, you don’t really need to.
The standard Grizzly seat fits one person, but a set of fold-up foot pegs for a rear passenger are installed as standard equipment on the Grizzly, ostensibly for use when you buy an optional rear passenger seat. In a bind, you could brave it sitting on the metal rack, but I wouldn’t recommend it.
Bruce Brown/Digital Trends A colorful, center-mounted LED display with bright backlighting indicates pedal assist mode, current speed, maximum speed, trip distance, overall mileage, and the time. Plus and minus buttons let you switch between five pedal assist modes. Level zero turns off pedal power assistance completely, leaving you with a very tough bike to pedal very far. Another button turns the powerful LED headlight on or off — the default is on.
Hang on and hold tight Bruce Brown/Digital Trends Despite all the focus on speed, the Grizzly comes out of the box classified as a Class 2 e-bike. That means it ships with a 20 mph speed limit, which is required for legal use on public roads in many states. But digging into the system settings menu unlocks a wealth of other options. You can reprogram the speed limit to 28 mph if you want to set it up for the Class 3 standard, or totally unlimited if you plan to ride on private property. For testing purposes, I reconfigured the Grizzly’s settings for unlimited mode because I knew I’d be riding off-road during at least part of the testing.
I learned what unlimited means on the Grizzly during a shakedown ride after assembly, when I grabbed a bit of throttle to get around a parked car. To my surprise, when I glanced at the display, it indicated 39.1 mph, the fastest I’ve ridden on a legit e-bike. That also turned out to be the fastest indicated speed on flat ground during my testing.
At these speeds, you really come to appreciate the bike’s rugged build quality and name-brand components. I felt full confidence in its ability to travel consistently and safely at these speeds, but other than a few test sprints, I reserved my higher-speed testing for private roadways.
You totally should buy the Ariel Rider Grizzly if you are an experienced rider who craves high performance.
With both batteries and motors clicked on, I found I needed to be aware of the front end wanting to rise up every time I started off in throttle mode. I weigh about 155 pounds, a bit more than half the Grizzly’s 300-pound capacity. With a little practice, I was able to feather the throttle and twist it with light pressure, to keep the power under control.
With the Grizzly’s front fork suspension adjusted to the softest setting, ride quality was one of my favorite features of the bike. Whether riding on smooth pavement, a private road with crumbling asphalt, wet grassy hills, or moderate off-road terrain, it soaked up bumps with aplomb.
Despite typically preferring a throttle, I came to appreciate the Grizzly’s pedal-assist mode when I wanted to noodle around the neighborhood. Set to level one, pedal assist tops out at about 22 mph, a reasonable speed that the Grizzly reaches quickly without the race car performance rush of twisting the throttle.
Our take You totally should buy the Ariel Rider Grizzly if you are an experienced e-bike or motorcycle rider who craves high performance. The $3,300 price tag is a fair piece of change, but you won’t likely need to spend more for upgrades unless you want to add a passenger seat.
The Grizzly costs a bit less than the $3,595 Super73-S Adventure Series scrambler, which has front fork suspension, but no rear suspension, and $700 less than the full-suspension Super73-R Adventure Series moped-style e-bike that originally defined the category. If you like the Grizzly, but don’t want to lay out more than three grand for an e-bike, you might want to consider Ariel’s X-Class 52V e-bike. It sells for just $2,200 with a single 1,000W geared hub motor, one 20-Ah 52V battery, and adjustable front and rear suspension.
The unleashed Grizzly is an outstanding performance e-bike, but as I learned in testing, it can also act like a laid-back Class 2 cruiser, so it’s almost like getting two e-bikes for the price of one.
eBike Reviews Product Reviews Tech for Change The Food Fight Outdoors EcoFlow, a manufacturer of portable energy solutions, has announced the launch of the Delta 2 Max -- an eco-friendly solar generator that could replace your current gas generator. The device clocks in at 2,048 watts and should deliver enough power to keep your home running for two days as an emergency backup (or many more if you’re using it as an off-grid power source).
The original Delta Max was a popular item for outdoor adventures, as it could connect to the existing lineup of portable EcoFlow solar panels to juice up gadgets while out in the backcountry. That legacy continues with the Delta 2 Max, which features an upgraded lithium iron phosphate (LFP) battery for a longer life cycle and faster charging.
Outdoors Warm weather is here, and so is grilling season. Now is as good a time as any to set out in search of one of the best outdoor grills, and it’s never a bad time to keep an eye out for a discount on one as well. Whether you’re a grilling beginner ready for some burgers with the family or a seasoned pro looking to host summer gatherings around one of the best smart grills and smokers, we’ve tracked down all of the details you need to land a deal on a grill that’s right for your needs. Read onward for more details.
Everdure CUBE charcoal grill — $150, was $199 The Everdure CUBE charcoal grill is a unique little grill that can truly go almost anywhere with you. It’s lightweight and only 17-inches long, yet still can handle almost any grilling challenge a griller on the go could hope to throw at it. It has a built-in heat protection shield and chrome handles that remain cool while cooking, and the removable charcoal tray offers easy cleanup when you’re finished at the campground or on the beach. Wherever you intend to do some grilling this summer, the Everdure CUBE charcoal grill is a great option as a copilot.
Outdoors The best electric bikes have come a long way in recent years and we don't just mean in terms of the miles you travel. With technology changing quickly, there are also an increasing number of electric bike deals around and we've picked out some of the very best. Electric bikes are a great way of getting around more easily and without necessarily needing to use as much stamina as a regular bike. Below, you'll find fantastic e-bike bike deals from many different retailers. There'll be something for every need here. Let's take a look at them.
Jasion EB5 Electric Bike -- $430, was $750 With a 350w brushless motor, the Jasion EB5 Electric Bike can achieve a top speed of 20 MPH with a range of up to 25-40 miles per charge. It has four working modes with a PAS mode where the motor assists with a moderate amount of power as you pedal, along with a Pure Electric Mode, a Pedal Mode, and a Booster Mode where the bike assist on hills and anywhere else you might be struggling. 26-inch puncture-resistant tires provide excellent durability while there's a high-strength front fork suspension, Shimano 7-speed gears, dual lights, and an LCD display. The latter offers controls for adjustable backlight brightness with one of five levels, along with mode controls.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
