Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Outdoors Reviews Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? See and be seen aboard Aventon’s city-friendly Soltera.2 e-bike By Bruce Brown Close $1,400.00 Torque sensors deliver power on demand Bright brake lights, turn signals Gorgeous, high-visibility color choice Light enough to carry Aggressive value Hydraulic brakes would be nice Fenders and racks optional If you’re ready to join the growing number of urban dwellers who jump on e-bikes to commute, shop, visit friends, and occasionally get out of town, be sure to check out the Aventon Soltera.2.
 Aventon builds fat tire all-terrain e-bikes, cruisers, cargo haulers, folding bikes, and more, but the popularity of the original Soltera urban e-bike prompted this upgraded second model in the series. It boasts power-assisted pedal performance for fast take-offs, added travel range per battery charge, and built-in rear turn signals.
When you need to make a fast getaway OK, it accelerates, but is it fast? A smooth, quiet ride with valuable touches Our take The Soltera.2, is available in two frame styles, with two color choices per style: Midnight Black or Citrine Yellow for the standard frame and Storm Blue or Ghost White for the step-through model. Each comes in regular and large frame sizes, which will accommodate riders as short as 4-foot, 11-inches, and as tall as 6-foot, 4-inches, depending on the style.
Harley-Davidson rides into the e-bike segment with Serial 1 subbrand Bosch Kiox and SmartphoneHub hands-on: The sleek displays e-bikes deserve Rad Power Bikes’ new e-bike models boost accessibility and visibility I chose a regular-size standard frame in Citrine Yellow, partly because it looks cool, but also because I believe any two-wheeled transport built for city use needs maximum visibility. After all, cabs in New York City aren’t yellow by chance.
When you need to make a fast getaway Soltera.2 riders can get an electric boost via power-assisted pedaling, or with a thumb throttle on the left handlebar. Four pedal assist levels control the relative amount of power employed and the maximum speed, in conjunction with a 7-speed shifter and gear system.
Aventon rated the original Soltera at 41 miles of range with pedal assistance, which climbs to 46 miles on the Soltera.2, or 20 miles using the throttle only. Each estimate is for a 160-pound rider on flat ground, but keep in mind that wind, hills, road quality, and speed will all drastically affect that number on any e-bike. If you count on getting 10 to 15 miles per charge with generous throttle use on the Soltera.2, you’ll likely be OK.
With a torque sensor, you can mash the pedals to scoot ahead of most vehicles in heavy city traffic.
Pedal assistance means the motor takes cues from your pedaling. Most inexpensive e-bikes use a cadence sensor in the pedal system that applies power based on the speed at which the rider pedals the bike, but it can take time to build up to the desired pedaling speed to access the full power available.
The Soltera.2 uses torque sensors, which respond to the force a rider applies to the pedals, not pedal speed. This lets you get off to a quicker start, since speed will always be low from a stop, but your legs can exert force instantly. Torque sensors also modulate the power better once you get moving. They’ll cut power when you cut exertion, even if the pedals continue to spin fast because of the attained speed.
These advantages make torque sensors especially useful for urban e-bikes. Imagine you’re in traffic waiting at a stoplight and you want to quickly cross the intersection to reach the bike lane. With a torque sensor, you can mash the pedals to scoot ahead of most vehicles in heavy city traffic, where a cadence system would lag behind.
OK, it accelerates, but is it fast? Bruce Brown/Digital Trends In city riding, top speed is generally less important than having enough power to keep up with the relatively slow-moving traffic. The Soltera.2 ships configured as a Class 2 e-bike with a top speed of 20 mph. If you want to go a bit faster, the Aventon app lets you dial the limit up to 25 mph. I tested the Soltera.2 for a while on this setting to see how it handled, but did most of my riding with the speed limit at 20, because that’s probably the optimum way to realize the best performance balance of speed, acceleration, and travel range.
Generously sized 180mm disc brakes stopped fast and made the Soltera.2 easy to control, but I was a bit disappointed that they’re mechanical instead of hydraulic. The latter require less brake lever effort and stop more smoothly. However, the brakes on the test bike were more than up to urban riding.
You can access most of the Soltera.2’s system settings via the bright backlit LED display, which is controlled with a button pad on the left side of the handlebar.
The Soltera.2’s battery is neatly hidden under the front portion of the standard V-frame. It’s not a huge battery, which supports the bike’s sleek appearance and also keeps the weight down. Most e-bikes weigh in at 60 pounds or more, which can make them cumbersome and difficult to carry on stairs and escalators, or in elevators. By my Fitbit Aria scale, the regular size, standard frame Soltera.2 weighs 46.8 pounds. That weight is noticeable but should be relatively easy for most riders to carry, especially by resting the standard frame’s crossbar on your shoulder.
A smooth, quiet ride with valuable touches I found it was easy to ride the Soltera.2 with no electrical power, which is always nice to keep in reserve for those inevitable occasions when you don’t quite make it all the way home on battery power. The Soltera.2’s relatively light weight and Kenda 700 x 38c tires (about 1.5 inches wide) help reduce rolling resistance. Don’t even try to pedal an 80-pound all-terrain bike with 4-inch wide fat tires.
This is a hard bike to miss at night. In addition to its gorgeous Citrine Yellow frame, reflective stripes on the tire sidewalls help drivers see the Soltera.2 in lowlight, especially from the side. Lights in the rear frame not only act as taillights when you ride and brake lights when you stop, but they now blink orange like turn signals when you press a corresponding button on the controls. Tap it again to kill the lights, or they’ll stop on their own after 10 blinks. Unfortunately, no corresponding lights exist upfront, so oncoming drivers won’t see your intention to turn.
The Soltera.2 doesn’t come with standard fenders or racks, which are valuable amenities on a commuter bike, but Aventon does offer them as options. They’re affordable, too — a rear rack goes for $45. Since these options add weight, keeping them optional for riders who want them was a smart move by Aventon.
Cable wraps help tidy up the nine cables that connect to controls and devices on the handlebar, but they don’t extend as high as they can. The cables don’t look terribly messy, but if you move the bike through tight spaces, you will want to be aware of the cables to avoid snagging them on obstacles.
Our take If you are searching for a sleek-looking, comfortable, easy-to-ride e-bike to get around the city that doesn’t scream it’s battery-operated, you definitely need to consider the new Aventon Soltera.2. Aventon added significant value to the Soltera platform with the updated model’s torque sensor pedal assistance. Without standard fenders or cargo racks, you might not select it for e -bike commuting , but for short, fast rides around the city or town, it should be on your short list, especially considering the Soltera.2’s low $1,400 price.
Editors' Recommendations The best electric bikes for 2023 This inflatable, backpack-sized e-bike is the most ridiculous transport idea yet Blix drops e-bike prices in shift to selling exclusively online Electric Citi Bikes is returning to New York City with a price shake-up Spinciti’s Amsterdam e-bike offers speed and range at an affordable price e-Bikes eBike Reviews Product Reviews News Vintage Electric announced a limited-edition high-performance e-bike just ahead of the November 15, 2019, theater release of Ford v Ferrari. The film recounts the full-on effort by Carroll Shelby to build a Ford race car to take on Ferrari, the perennial winner of the 24 Hours of Le Mans in France in 1966. The Vintage Electric Shelby is a 36-mph e-bike with paint, finishes, and design details closely fashioned after the auto builder's personal 289 Cobra.
Introducing the Limited Edition Vintage Electric Shelby Bicycle Vintage Electric founder and lead designer Andrew Davidge consulted with Aaron Shelby, the auto legend's grandson, while developing the limited edition. Inspired by the 289 Cobra, the Vintage Electric Shelby has matching blue metallic N6 paint with matte black racing stripes, the Shelby logo, and Cobra badging.
Outdoors Chula Vista, California-based Juiced Bikes announced the Scorpion, a retro moped-style e-bike with a 28 mph top speed and a riding range of 45 to 75 miles. Equipped with front and rear suspension, hydraulic disc brakes, and puncture-resistant 20 x 4-inch fat street tires, the Scorpion is available for pre-order beginning today.
All New SCORPION from Juiced Bikes Outdoors New Zealand-based UBCO Bikes has revealed the UBCO FRX1 Freeride Trail Bike, the latest newcomer to the e-bike market. This is the first new EV from UBCO since its 2X2 Electric Farm Bike, and it won't be the last. The official launch for the FRX1 will be at the AIMExpo on September 26 in Columbus, Ohio.
What makes the FRX1 unique is its almost motorcycle-level performance. The motor reaches 20 horsepower (15 kilowatts) at its peak, and is liquid-cooled and mid-drive. The motor can be controlled either by the twist throttle or via pedal assist. UBCO claims the FRX1 comes with a nine-speed gearbox for pedaling, which makes it more pedal-friendly than other e-bikes.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
