Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Outdoors Deals Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Speed up your daily commute with these e-bike deals By Jennifer Allen Close The best electric bikes have come a long way in recent years and we don’t just mean in terms of the miles you travel. With technology changing quickly, there are also an increasing number of electric bike deals around and we’ve picked out some of the very best. Electric bikes are a great way of getting around more easily and without necessarily needing to use as much stamina as a regular bike. Below, you’ll find fantastic e-bike bike deals from many different retailers. There’ll be something for every need here. Let’s take a look at them.
Jasion EB5 Electric Bike — $430, was $750 Razor Rambler 16 eBike — $509, was $660 Hover-1 Instinct eBike — $799, was $1,000 Aventon Aventura Step-Over EBike — $1,500, was $2,000 NIU BQi-C3 Pro eBike — $1,700, was $2,200 Aventon Level 2 Commuter Step-Over eBike — $1,800, was $1,949 Jasion EB5 Electric Bike — $430, was $750 Image used with permission by copyright holder With a 350w brushless motor, the Jasion EB5 Electric Bike can achieve a top speed of 20 MPH with a range of up to 25-40 miles per charge. It has four working modes with a PAS mode where the motor assists with a moderate amount of power as you pedal, along with a Pure Electric Mode, a Pedal Mode, and a Booster Mode where the bike assist on hills and anywhere else you might be struggling. 26-inch puncture-resistant tires provide excellent durability while there’s a high-strength front fork suspension, Shimano 7-speed gears, dual lights, and an LCD display. The latter offers controls for adjustable backlight brightness with one of five levels, along with mode controls.
Razor Rambler 16 eBike — $509, was $660 Image used with permission by copyright holder With cool, retro stylings, the Razor Rambler 16 eBike looks great while still having the latest technology. It has a finely crafted and engineered body with a powerful yet quiet 350-watt brushless hub motor that enables you to ride at speeds up to 15.6 MPH. Cruising is achievable at up to 11.5 miles with the elongated banana-style seat perfect for chilling on. Super wide 16-inch tires keep you safe and stable at all times. The bike also has a super bright LED headlight and brake-activated taillight so you’re always visible to others.
Hover-1 Instinct eBike — $799, was $1,000 Image used with permission by copyright holder The Hover-1 Instinct eBike’s 350w brushless motor offers a top speed of up to 15 MPH so it can handle inclines of up to 15 degrees without a hitch. Up to 40 miles of range means you can have plenty of adventures here. Just engage pedal assist any time you need some assistance with the levels ranging from 0 to 3 aka high. An LCD display always lets you know about speed, battery levels, mileage, and the assist level you’re set at. Recharging the battery only takes five hours so it’s well-suited for your daily commute. There’s also a LED headlight for safer riding too. It looks pretty cool so you’ll feel suitably futuristic as you ride.
Aventon Aventura Step-Over EBike — $1,500, was $2,000 Image used with permission by copyright holder Designed for a rugged adventure, the Aventon Aventura Step-Over EBike has a front suspension fork with a bump-absorbing 80mm of travel so you’re always riding in comfort. Fat tires further help here so it’s perfect if you deal with bumpy terrain on your commute. Out of the box, it can handle speeds of up to 20 MPH but you can also upgrade it to Class 3 to get it up to 28 MPH if you wish. Whatever your plans, a backlit LCD display keeps you informed about speed, battery charge, pedal assist level, distance traveled, and more. You can even charge your smartphone via USB with it.
NIU BQi-C3 Pro eBike — $1,700, was $2,200 Image used with permission by copyright holder The NIU BQi-C3 Pro eBike has twin batteries which ensure it has an impressive range of 90 miles once you swap out the batteries. Said batteries are lightweight and easy to recharge, before powering you to up to 28 MPH. There’s the necessary pedal-assist feature along with throttle power as needed. The bike also has a state-of-the-art Gates carbon belt drive to cut down on maintenance needs, while the whole bike is designed to be stable and safe, all while looking good. An integrated Halo light and rear taillights help you stay visible at all times, even at night.
Aventon Level 2 Commuter Step-Over eBike — $1,800, was $1,949 Image used with permission by copyright holder Equipped with preinstalled fenders, a sturdy rear rack, and front suspension fork, the Aventon Level 2 Commuter Step-Over eBike is designed to handle all elements while keeping you protected. A torque sensor ensures it instinctively matches your riding efforts, by either magnifying your pedaling or by letting you solely pedal. The battery has fast charge support too. A color display helps you keep track of battery life, distance traveled, and speed, while you can also charge your phone through it. Just pick one of the five levels of pedal assist or ride solely with the throttle offering speeds of up to 20 MPH. At all times, you’ll be visible thanks to integrated lights.
Editors' Recommendations The best electric bikes for 2023 Upway launches one of the best marketplaces for certified e-bikes, new or not This Co-op Cycles e-bike is over $500 off during the REI Labor Day sale REI’s Winter Clearance Sale slashes prices on mountain and electric bikes The best deals on electric scooters this week include Razor, Xiaomi, and GoTrax Deals e-Bikes Outdoors This content was produced in partnership with Upway.
It wasn't too long ago that e-bikes were a rare sight, but all of that has changed, and rightfully so. Electric bikes are all over the road these days, and there are many brands either venturing into the technology, to launch their own versions of the sustainable transportation option or reiterating existing and traditional designs. From Aventon to Schwinn, or RadPower to Momentum, with so many opportunities, the prevailing question is, where do you go to find the best deals and the best information about these brands and their e-bike models? The answer is Upway, the number one certified electric bike provider and an official partner to many of the aforementioned brands.
What is Upway, exactly? It's a marketplace, specializing in e-bikes, featuring an inventory that's sourced from some of the best brands in the world. There are American brands -- like Specialized, Cannondale, and RadPower -- and European brands -- like Riese, Muller, and VanMoof. The best part is the discounts, offering up to 60% off retail, for a plethora of brands. Upway is on a mission to make sustainable mobility affordable for everyone. It's also one of the best places to go for a new or pre-owned e-bike, and here's why: Outdoors EcoFlow, a manufacturer of portable energy solutions, has announced the launch of the Delta 2 Max -- an eco-friendly solar generator that could replace your current gas generator. The device clocks in at 2,048 watts and should deliver enough power to keep your home running for two days as an emergency backup (or many more if you’re using it as an off-grid power source).
The original Delta Max was a popular item for outdoor adventures, as it could connect to the existing lineup of portable EcoFlow solar panels to juice up gadgets while out in the backcountry. That legacy continues with the Delta 2 Max, which features an upgraded lithium iron phosphate (LFP) battery for a longer life cycle and faster charging.
Outdoors Warm weather is here, and so is grilling season. Now is as good a time as any to set out in search of one of the best outdoor grills, and it’s never a bad time to keep an eye out for a discount on one as well. Whether you’re a grilling beginner ready for some burgers with the family or a seasoned pro looking to host summer gatherings around one of the best smart grills and smokers, we’ve tracked down all of the details you need to land a deal on a grill that’s right for your needs. Read onward for more details.
Everdure CUBE charcoal grill — $150, was $199 The Everdure CUBE charcoal grill is a unique little grill that can truly go almost anywhere with you. It’s lightweight and only 17-inches long, yet still can handle almost any grilling challenge a griller on the go could hope to throw at it. It has a built-in heat protection shield and chrome handles that remain cool while cooking, and the removable charcoal tray offers easy cleanup when you’re finished at the campground or on the beach. Wherever you intend to do some grilling this summer, the Everdure CUBE charcoal grill is a great option as a copilot.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
