Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Outdoors Products Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? The best electric bikes for 2023 By Bruce Brown Close Whether you're wondering what the fuss is all about with e-bikes, or you're an enthusiast shopping for a new model, the options have never been broader. There is an e-bike for just about anyone who wants to try electric two-wheeling, whether you want to spend $500 or $5,000. Using e-bikes for commuting is an eminently practical and cost-saving alternative form of transport for some people, but most riders choose e-bikes for fun and adventure.
Here are eight of the best e-bikes available today, from our favorite overall pick to more specialized choices for every type of rider, whether you're looking for something fast, portable, and just more affordable.
More Image used with permission by copyright holder Pace 500.3 Electric Cruiser The best overall e-bike New turn signal functionality Long range up to 60 miles per charge Swept-back handlebers for a relaxed ride Puncture-resistant tires Backlit LCD Android and iOS compatibility Hydraulic brakes would be nice Racks and accessories optional Why you should buy this: Aventon excels at providing versatile yet powerful e-bikes, and you'll love the Pace 500.3.
Who it's for: Anyone who wants more control over their rides for a better overall experience.
Why we picked the Pace 500.3 There are casual rides, and then there are casual rides packed with power, as Aventon’s Pace 500.3 cruiser provides to its riders. It reinvigorates your bike ride, turning even the most tedious trips into a relaxed experience, thanks to a 500-watt motor, top speed of 28 miles per hour, and a long range of up to 60 miles per charge.
Most importantly, when you hit the road, you benefit from an all-new turn signal functionality, cushioned and comfortable saddle, swept-back handlebars for a more upright and relaxed seating arrangement – you don’t have to lean forward to control the bike – and backlit LCD that tells you everything you need to know about the ebike and your ride.
There are four pedal assist levels, including eco, tour, sport, and turbo, which you can enable at any time to improve or assist with your efforts. If you’re going up a steep incline, for example, you can crank up the throttle to pedal less or not at all if that’s what you prefer. Puncture-resistant tires add an extra layer of safety and security, and you never have to worry about being stranded, no matter how long your trip ends up being.
Either way, if you’re looking to transform your ride, regardless of whether you’re commuting, joy-riding, or sightseeing, Aventon’s Pace 500.3 is the way to go.
Bruce Brown/Digital Trends Super73-S Adventure Series The best versatile e-bike Rugged frame withstands abuse Powerful motor and smooth handling Elongated seat suits most riding styles Fat tires soften ride Smart app for navigation and management High price for the speed and range Why you should buy this: Super73's latest scrambler-style e-bike maximizes performance, comfort, and all-terrain versatility.
Who it's for: Anyone who wants a premium e-bike built for both on- and off-road performance.
Why we picked the Super73-S Adventure Series: If you don't want to overthink your e-bike purchase decision and also don't mind spending more than the average e-bike cost, the Super73-S Adventure Series e-bike is an easy choice. Super73 is one of the oldest e-bike brands. The company built its reputation and huge following on moped-like e-bikes with a distinctive style that calls to mind classic scrambler motorcycles. The Super73-S Adventure Series is the latest and greatest iteration of the company's rider-pleasing formula. Fast, comfortable to ride, and ready for adventures on- and off-road, this e-bike is also tons of fun.
A 750-watt rear hub motor gives the Super73-S Adventure Series a 28 mph maximum speed, and its 48-volt, 20 amp-hour battery takes six or seven hours to fully charge. Super73 suggests it cand go 40 to 75 miles on a a charge, but it will only reach the higher end with lower pedal assist and slower speeds.
During my testing, I found it easy to shift my position on the banana-style seat when I rode the Super73 on varied surfaces and at different speeds --and as often as possible close to the e-bike's maximum 28 mph. The S-Adventure Series doesn't have a rear suspension, but I still found it comfortable to ride thanks to a combination of a front fork suspension, fat tires with plenty of sidewall flex, and a cushy seat. Aggressively knobby fat tires enable travel over most surfaces, and I also found them unexpectedly stable on pavement, even at top speed.
The Super73-S Adventure Series has eight gears if you want to ride it without battery power assistance, which you won't because this is a heavy bike at 80 pounds and the tires add significant rolling resistance. The e-bike ships set to a maximum speed of 20 mph, but you can use the Super73 mobile app to unlock speeds up to 28 mph. The same app can be used to show current ride data, turn-by-turn navigation, or to update the bike's firmware.
Super73 fosters an active rider community through support for group rides, custom e-bike design contests, and other events.
Because of its versatility, overall rider comfort and support, notable performance, and aggregate fun, we rate the Super73-S Adventure Series as the best overall e-bike.
The best golf apps for iPhone and Android: 8 best ones in 2023 Speed up your daily commute with these e-bike deals This Co-op Cycles e-bike is over $500 off during the REI Labor Day sale Image used with permission by copyright holder Aventon Soltera.2 Ebike The best commuting e-bike Torque sensors deliver power on demand Bright brake lights, turn signals Gorgeous, high-visibility color choice Light enough to carry Aggressive value Hydraulic brakes would be nice Fenders and racks optional Why you should buy this: Aventon combines rugged frame construction with comfort and safety features to withstand daily use.
Who it's for: Commuters who seek a tough e-bike as alternate transport that's also fun to ride.
Why we picked the Aventon Soltera.2 E-bike: The lightweight, eye-catching Aventon Soltera.2 is easy to pedal even without battery assistance, easy to carry up stairs, and its sophisticated pedal assistance delivers power on demand.
The Soltera is powered by a 350-watt electric rear hub motor with a 36-volt 9.6Ah battery that recharges in 4 to 5 hours. Top speed with pedal assistance is 20 mph, although you can use a code to enable speeds up to 25 mph. With torque-sensing pedal sensors, power comes on smoother and faster than on e-bikes equipped with the more common -- and cheaper -- cadence sensors.
Thanks in part to the Soltera.2's light 46-pound weight, the rated maximum travel range with a fully charged battery is 46 miles. To get that range, you'll need to keep the speed under 20 mph using the lowest of four pedal power assistance modes. With generous use of the Soltera.2's thumb throttle, Aventon drops the maximum range to 20 miles. Real-world figures are likely about half the rated maximum ranges, but that's the case with most e-bikes.
In eye-popping Citrine Yellow, it's impossible to miss the the Soltera.2 in traffic, and its standard Kendra 700c tires have reflective strips that aid side visibility. An LED headlight and dual frame-mounted brake lights with bright integrated turn signals ensure you're seen at night.
The Soltera.2 isn't perfect. Its mechanical disc brakes with 180mm disc brake rotors stop the e-bike quickly, but hydraulic brakes would be smoother. Fenders would help commuters keep their clothes clean and a rear rack would be convenient for bags or cases. We'd also add mirrors to the list of options. Fortunately, Aventon has reasonably priced accessories to fill all those needs.
The Aventon Soltera.2 is available in both step-over and step-through frame styles, in two sizes and two color choices for each style. If you want to switch to e-bike commuting, the Soltera.2 is an excellent choice.
More Himiway Himiway C1 Kids Electric Bike The best e-bike for kids Up to 50 miles per charge Hydraulic and electric brakes Safer small footboard design Easy-reach twist thumb throttle Cushioned seat Ages 4 to 12 Why should adults have all the fun? The Himiway C1 kids electric bike is designed for little ones, ages 4 to 12, not just so that they can have fun and explore, but also so they can join their friends and family on bike rides. With a long-range, up to 50 miles per charge, thanks to a 360-watt-hour Samsung/LG rechargeable battery, and a top speed of 15 miles per hour – with three speed modes including 7, 13, and 15 miles per hour – they’ll definitely be able to keep up with the pack. Hydraulic and electronic brakes, an aerospace-grade aluminum bike frame, a cushioned seat design, and a thumb throttle make it easy and safe for kids to ride. The small footboard design, compared to longer footboards on bigger e-bikes, ensures that children’s legs won’t be trapped or pressed against the bike if they fall. It’s the first of its kind, made just for kids, and it’s one of the best ways to take them on rides with you.
Teleport Teleport Ride Best for long rides Super long range Self-charging technology Lightweight frame Incredible and minimalistic style Accessories optional Why you should buy this: The Teleport Ride's unique features, like self-charging tech, help it stand out.
Who it's for: Anyone who wants long range, extra power, and incredible speed options.
Why we picked the Teleport Ride A major concern with e-bikes is that many have a reasonable range, but they still pose limitations on your ride -- between 30 to 60 miles per charge. If you want to travel longer distances, you need an e-bike equipped with self-charging technology. That's what Teleport Ride's regenerative braking technology does in its innovative e-bike. As you ride, it stores kinetic energy, converting it to electricity to keep the battery charged.
When you pedal, glide, or brake, it recovers the kinetic energy built up by the bike and converts it to electricity. It's the same technology used in modern electric vehicles. But it also ensures that you can travel up to 100 miles or more with no issues. The regenerative braking and supersized battery -- to store more power -- keep the electricity topped up. That way, you can ride further and faster than ever before, thanks to a 28-mile-per-hour top speed.
The Teleport Ride e-bike is also composed of a super-lightweight and aerospace-grade aluminum frame. It keeps the entire bike more maneuverable and aerodynamic and takes less power to propel by proxy. Yet, that's still achieved in a tough and durable format with a versatile bike that can handle almost any terrain.
The unique design also hides the electronic parts to keep things stylish but also gives you a quieter ride. It pairs nicely with the whisper-quiet Sine Wave controller, Gates Carbon Drive Belt for quieter, smoother rides, and an Italian leather saddle and grips -- the latter providing extra comfort. Hydraulic disk brakes ensure reliability and on-point braking, and an integrated OLED display will show you all the information you need to know, including top speed, battery life, and more.
There's so much to love, beyond the extended range and battery, but also that's why we picked it.
GoTrax GOTRAX CTI 3 Electric Bike The best of both worlds Versatile Five speed settings Shimano shifter Excellent battery life Rear storage rack Limited style selection Why you should buy this: The GoTrax CTI 3 is truly versatile and will match almost any riders needs.
Who it's for: Anyone who likes a balance between traditional rides and ready-to-use power for those tough stretches of road.
Why we picked the GoTrax CTI 3: What makes the CTI 3 so great is that you can use it as a traditional bike and put in all the work yourself, thanks to the 7-speed Shimano shifter, but you can also rely on the 500-watt brushless motor at any time when your pace slows, or the ride gets too harsh.
The removable 36-volt 10.4 amp-hour battery will last for up to 40.5 miles per charge at a max speed of 20 miles per hour. Since the CTI was designed with city riders and commuters in mind, it works well for both casual (relaxed) and more focused rides.
There are five different speed settings, with a throttle that you can crank up to let the motor do all the work when you’re tired. But most importantly, the design is available in both a step-over and step-thru form – the latter allows you to easily mount the bike without having to swing your leg far over the main bar.
Moreover, the curved handlebars prevent you from having to lean forward when you’re steering the bike, so you can kick back and relax whenever you’re ready to take off. A front wheel suspension helps keep the bike balanced and the ride smooth, and a rear storage rack allows you to stow your gear safely.
It’s the best of both worlds and an excellent option for all riders, beginner to expert.
Bruce Brown/Digital Trends Velotric T1 The best urban e-bike Stealthy look, with few visible cables Noiseless electric motor High-end components Smart security features Easy to pedal with no power Light enough to carry Rear light uses a separate battery No brake light Fenders optional, not standard Why you should buy this: Velotric's sophisticated and understated design complements the T1's tech features in this delightful urban e-bike.
Who it's for: Anyone seeking an easy to ride e-bike that looks like a traditional bicycle.
Why we picked the Velotric T1: An ideal urban e-bike must be tough enough, light enough, and fast enough to withstand the constant and often unexpected demands of traveling on city streets. Cracked pavement and puddles aren't the only e-bike hazards, however. E-bike theft is a huge problem, especially in cities. Velotric's T1 urban e-bike surpassed my expectations with pleasing surprises that enhanced comfort, ease of use, performance, and security.
At first glance, the Velotric T1 does not look like an e-bike. There's no unruly clump of cables in front of the handlebars and the slender frame tubes don't advertise the presence of a battery. Another pleasant extra is the lack of noise. When you ride the T1, all you hear is the tires. The absence of a typical e-bike motor's zinging whine made me smile.
If you decide to pedal without assistance -- or fully drain your battery when you're away from home -- the Velotric T1 is easy to pedal thanks to an 8-speed Shimano gear cassette. I'm not an avid bicycle rider, but I thoroughly enjoyed riding the Velotric e-bike without battery assistance.
At 38 pounds, the T1 is extremely light for a full-size e-bike, which certainly helps with pedaling ease. It also makes it quicker, extends the range, and makes it doable for most folks to carry it up and down a flight of stairs, which can't be said for typical e-bikes weighing closer to 65 pounds.
The Velotric T1 uses a 36-volt 9.8Ah battery to power its proprietary Velopower E35+ drive system. The 350-watt electric motor can deliver up to 600 watts under heavy demand, and up to 45 Newton meters of torque for climbing steep grades. Without a throttle, the T1 relies on power-assisted pedaling to hit its 20 mph top speed. Like the Aventon Soltera.2, it has a torque sensor for smoother and faster response than common and cheaper cadence sensors. You can also unlock the top speed to 25 mph with the Velotric app.
On neighborhood and city streets with the top speed unlocked, I found it easy to maintain 24 to 25 mph. The Velotric's hydraulic brakes with 160mm rotors also impressed during several emergency test stops.
According to Velotric, the T1's battery is sufficient to power the e-bike up to 70 miles per charge. You can be sure that means while using a low-power pedal assistance level. The battery takes up to 6 hours to fully recharge.
The Velotric T1 goes far above expectations with extra features including fingerprint unlocking, auto rider recognition (when you're carrying your smartphone), an automatically on auto-brightness-level headlight, theft alert, GPS tracking, and more. I have a minor quibble with the T1's rear light, because it uses a separate battery from the main battery, plus there is no brake light.
There may never be a perfect urban e-bike, but until it appears, the Velotric is the best urban e-bike you can buy.
Bruce Brown/Digital Trends Rad Power Bikes RadRunner 3 Plus The best seniors e-bike Unsurpassed versatility Comfortable by design Excellent safety features Optional accessory packages Comprehensive user documentation 20 mph max speed Weak pedestrian warning bell Why you should buy this: Rad Power Bike's highly evolved and easy to ride utility e-bike adapts to many tasks, including carrying grandchildren or groceries.
Who it's for: Anyone looking for an easy to ride and rugged e-bike that will last for ages.
Why we picked the Rad Power Bikes RadRunner 3 Plus: The Rad Power Bikes RadRunner 3 Plus is the best e-bike for seniors for many of the same reasons that we praised the original Rad Power Bikes RadRunner in 2019. The RadRunner 3 Plus is easy to mount or dismount, easy to ride, and extremely durable. Rad sells a wide selection of reasonably priced accessories and special-purpose packages to carry cargo or passengers. You can buy an optional seat that's just right for a grandchild, and there's even a Rad Trailer with an optional pet carrier insert to pull behind a RadRunner 3 Plus.
The RadRunner 3 Plus pairs a 750-watt geared hub electric motor on the rear wheel with a 48-volt 14Ah battery. Rad restricts the RadRunner 3 Plus e-bike's top speed to 20 mph in conformance with Class 2 e-bike specifications. Unlike most e-bike brands, Rad doesn't try to push performance restrictions, choosing instead to focus on durability, reliability, quality components, and features valued by family riders including seniors.
Rad rates the RadRunner 3 Plus for 25 to 45 miles of range with a fully charged battery, with the actual number determined by speed, rider and cargo weight, incline, road conditions, weather, and other factors. Selecting one of the lower of five pedal assistance power levels to pedal the e-bike without using the half-twist throttle is the best way to maximize riding range.
The RadRunner 3 Plus has front and rear hydraulic disc brakes for easy brake lever pulls and smooth stops. The front LED headlight has an auto-on feature, and there's an integrated brake and taillight in the frame. Front and rear fenders are standard, as is an integrated rear rack capable of supporting up to 120 pounds. Total carrying capacity including rider, passenger, and any cargo is a generous 350 pounds.
The RadRunner 3 Plus has a warning bell, but it's not very loud. Rad sells optional mirrors for the RadRunner 3 Plus, but it would be nice to include them as standard equipment, especially for older riders who often have difficulty to twisting their necks to check for traffic.
As long as you're OK with its 20 mph maximum top speed, the RadRunner 3 Plus excels as the best e-bike for seniors.
Bruce Brown/Digital Trends / Digital Trends GoCycle G4 The best folding e-bike Light weight and compact folded size Highest-quality materials and electronics Extremely easy to collapse and assemble App-based security features Expensive Limited top speed Why you should buy this: GoCycle's G4 folding e-bike is a class act that looks sharp, weighs very little, and stores in tiny spaces.
Who it's for: Anyone willing to spend more to buy an impressive, highly functional example of folding e-bike artwork.
Why we picked the GoCycle G4: GoCycle's position at the top of the folding e-bike rankings has endured for several years. When I reviewed the GoCycle GX folding e-bike in 2019, I praised its strength and style, high-quality components, easy operation, and, most of all, the GX's light weight and compact folded size. The GoCycle G4, introduced earlier this year, continues the GX's legacy as the best folding e-bike available. The GoCycle G4 is a luxury product with design features that justify its relatively high cost.
There are plenty of folding e-bikes at much lower prices than the GoCycle G4. Most current folding e-bikes weigh 65 pounds or more, which makes the G4 is a relative featherweight at approximately 38 pounds. GoCycle achieves its low mass with components formed from injection-molded magnesium and composites built around a hydroformed 6061 T6 aluminum alloy frame.
That means the GoCycle G4 both is light enough that you likely won't mind carrying it up or down flights of stairs, and it's surprisingly compact: With the center stand up and pedals folded, the G4 measures just 34.6 inches long by 15.30 inches wide by 24.2 inches high.
It's exceptionally easy to fold the G4. All you have to do is unlock the folding mechanisms on the frame and handlebar and then fold the pedals and put up the center stand. A rugged elastic loop secures the folded pieces so the bike doesn't unfold, and you can also roll the folded bike along on the wheels by guiding it with the seat.
When it's unfolded, the G4 is ready to ride with a 220-pound capacity. You can pedal the G4 with the power off, but that quickly gets old on any noticeable grade. The G4 has three gears with a patented mechanical microshifter that you twist to change gears.
GoCycle uses a pedal torque sensor to control the amount of power assistance provided to the pedals. There's also a small boost button on the left side of the handlebar that applies full battery power when you press and hold the button while pedaling. The G4's front hub motor provides 250-watt continuous and 500W peak power to drive the e-bike.
The G4's 36 volt, 8.1Ah battery has a range up to 40 miles, depending on rider pedal input, according to GoCycle. Fully charging the battery takes three hours.
Top speed with the G4 is rated at 20 mph, although I saw 22 mph on the GoCycle mobile app during G4 test rides. The e-bike includes two elastic smartphone holders to position your smartphone in the middle of the handlebar. You also can use the app to choose from three preconfigured pedal assistance power modes, or to configure a custom mode.
The G4 has a front fork suspension and a suspension shock on the rear wheel. The 20-inch diameter 2.25-inch wide tires have relatively smooth textured tread that limits use to streets and sidewalks. Stopping power is excellent with the G4's hydraulic disc brakes.
If you are searching for a folding e-bike that's light enough to carry and folds compactly enough to fit under a desk, the cleverly designed GoCycle G4 is a the best folding e-bike.
Ariel Rider Ariel Kepler The best fat tire e-bike Great acceleration and top speed High carrying capacity Ride comfort with suspension and fat tires Versatile, go-anywhere design Costs more than many competitors Many riders don't need as much speed No rear suspension Why you should buy this: Ariel's fat tire bike is faster, carries more weight, and travels further than most competitors without breaking your budget.
Who it's for: Anyone looking for a sturdy, go-anywhere, fast e-bike.
Why we picked the Ariel Kepler: Fat tire e-bikes are the sweet spot of e-bike design, and not just because they look cool. Fat tire bikes exude ruggedness and readiness to take on any terrain. To fulfill the broad expectations of this category, a fat tire e-bike requires a powerful motor, generous range, a comfortable ride, and ample carrying capacity. The Ariel Rider Kepler is the best fat tire e-bike because it exceeds expectations for all of the above requirements.
Ariel Rider specializes in fast fat tire e-bikes. The Kepler's 1000-watt rear hub electric motor can power the e-bike to more than 32 mph, faster than you can legally ride on public streets in most states. You can access the Kepler's battery power with five levels of pedal assistance, but most riders will prefer the half-twist throttle in the right hand grip.
A 52-volt LG battery delivers 20Ah of power to the Kepler. Ariel rates the Kepler's range at 35 to 75 miles per charge, which is 50% to 75% further than many fat tire competitors. As usual, the faster you ride the e-bike, the lower the travel range. Speed demons may get closer to 25 miles on a full charge. These numbers compare well to most other fat tire bikes thanks to the Kepler battery's 1,040 watt-hour capacity. Recharging a fully depleted battery with the standard 2.5-amp smart charger should take about eight hours.
All fat tire bikes let you improve comfort by deflating the tires from their maximum inflation level to soak up bumps and other irregularities. But the Kepler doesn't rely solely on its 4-inch wide by 26-inch diameter CST tires to lessen rider butt impact. Standard Kepler components include a front fork suspension with adjustable preload damping and a lockout setting, as well as Ariel's ergonomic saddle.
The Kepler's stock configuration includes front and rear fenders and a rear rack with a 70-pound carrying capacity. The Kepler's total capacity is 300 pounds, including rider and cargo.
Speed, range, comfort, and carrying capacity -- the Ariel Rider Kepler excels in all categories, which is why we selected it as the best fat tire e-bike. You'll be pleased and possibly surprised by the Kepler's moderate $2,000 price.
Juiced Bikes Juiced Bikes Scorpion X2 The best moped-style e-bike Comfortable riding posture Easy to get on and off Ample speed and carrying capacity Versatility, with accessories for multiple purposes Upgraded components for safety and durability Excellent value Faster than many riders need Mirrors and turn signals should be standard Why you should buy this: If you're a fan of moped style e-bikes, Juiced Bike's updated and upgraded Scorpion X2 is a no-brainer for its versatility, rich feature set, and performance.
Who it's for: Anyone looking for a fast everyday-ride e-bike that's easy to get on and off.
Why we picked the Juiced Bikes Scorpion X2: In 2020, Juiced Bikes introduced the Scorpion , a fast moped-style e-bike that offered class-leading rider comfort, a fender and rear rack that come standard, and a bright motorcycle-style LED headlamp, which was unusual for its time. We praised the original Scorpion for its performance, comfort, and versatility. Juiced Bikes continues to impress with the same attributes in its recently introduced Scorpion X2, the latest upgrade to this highly successful e-bike platform. It's no surprise we consider the Scorpion X2 the best moped-style e-bike.
Juiced draws obvious stylistic inspiration from the iconic Puch mopeds of the 1970s. Having owned a fully optioned Puch Maxi in the 1990s, I can attest that this modern reincarnation is both faster and faster at stopping than those old single-cylinder mules, even if the one I rode was 20 years old at the time.
The Scorpion X2 adds several significant upgrades to the Scorpion platform. The X2 has a 1,000W (1,300W peak) rear hub electric motor with a rated maximum speed of 28 mph. Juiced claims the 52 volt 15.6Ah battery can power the X2 up to 55 miles when fully charged.
The newest Scorpion rides on puncture-resistant fat tires that are 4.2 inches wide by 20 inch inches in diameter. In addition to the comfort afforded by fat tire sidewall flex, the Scorpion X2 has an adjustable front fork and a steel spring rear suspension. With the X2's oversized seat in the mix, it's easy to understand how the latest Scorpion iteration improves on the original model, which I described as "comfort-first." The original Scorpion had street treads, but the X2 comes equipped with knobby tires. The knobbies are more than just a marketing-driven addition: Real-life Scorpion riders tackle all types of terrain, and hydraulic disc brakes with amply sized rotors deliver dependable stopping power.
Like the classic Puch gas-powered mopeds, the Scorpion X2 has a step-through frame that makes it easy to mount or dismount. You'll appreciate the step-through frame the first time you try to get on the e-bike with a bag or box on the rear rack. The X2's standard rear rack can hold up to 50 pounds of the e-bike's 300-pound total carrying capacity.
There are no standard mirrors with the Scorpion X2, but Juiced sells a pair of high rearview mirrors specifically for Scorpion models for a reasonable $30. I used those mirrors with an earlier Scorpion generation and they were a wonderfully useful addition.
Juiced Bike's winning combination of comfort, power, range, and carrying capacity ontinues with the Scorpion X2, making it an easy choice as the best moped-style e-bike. The Scorpion is well worth its $1,900 list price.
Lectric Ebikes Lectric XP 3.0 Best budget e-bike Amazing value Refined design includes the most desirable features Style choices to match rider preferences Impressive selection of affordable upgrades No rear suspension Mirrors and turn signals aren't standard Why you should buy this: Lectric's expertise in high-value folding e-bikes shines with this highly adaptable model.
Who it's for: Anyone who wants to save money on an e-bike without sacrificing function or performance.
Why we picked the Lectric XP 3.0: Lectric Ebikes is known for offering affordable e-bikes that don't skimp on quality. You can certainly find cheaper e-bikes, but buying an e-bike based on price can easily lead to disappointment, or worse. Poor construction or substandard components can be life-threatening. Lectric Ebikes has even less-costly models, but we selected the Lectric XP 3.0 as the best budget e-bike based on its performance, range, and complete complement of high-quality components.
The Lectric XP 3.0 is a folding fat tire e-bike with a 1,000-watt peak output rear hub motor, a 48-volt lithium-ion battery, hydraulic disc brakes with 180mm disc rotors, and standard fenders, lights, and rear rack. The integrated rack holds up to 150 pounds, which leaves 180 pounds of additional carrying capacity for the rider and other cargo.
Thanks to the XP 3.0's adjustable-height seat post and handlebars, it is suitable for riders from 4 feet, 10 inches to 6 feet, 5 inches in height, according to Lectric.
When folded, the XP 3.0 shrinks to just 37-inches long, 18 inches wide, and 28 inches high. It weighs 64 pounds with the standard battery, so you won't want to carry the XP 3.0 up stairs frequently, but its compact folded size helps when you transport it by car or store it in your home or workplace.
You can configure the XP 3.0 to reach up to 28 mph, or lower if your locality requires it. Lectric claims the standard battery can power the XP 3.0 up to 45 miles using the e-bike's five-level pedal assistance, and a long-range battery is also available. A half-twist throttle decreases rider effort with a significant decrease in range.
The Lectric XP 3.0 addresses rider comfort with a front oil suspension fork and the 3-inch-wide 20-inch-diameter moderately fat tires.
The Lectric XP 3.0 costs a surprisingly low $1,000. At that price, you might want to upgrade with optional extras such as a spare battery, a premium headlight, or other accessories. Lectric also sells mirrors, phone holders, rider and passenger seats, racks, baskets, and more, individually or in function-specific packages, all at reasonable prices. If you stick with the Lectric XP 3.0's base price, you can always upgrade later.
It was an easy choice to select the Lectric XP 3.0 as the best budget e-bike.
Editors' Recommendations Teleport Ride: No other e-bike comes close in range, power, and speed [Sponsored] EV Flash Sale: Save on e-bikes, e-mopeds, and even e-go karts Upway launches one of the best marketplaces for certified e-bikes, new or not Heybike Anniversary sale: Score a new e-bike and save big This electric lawn mower deal will save you over $100 at Walmart Best Products e-Bikes Deals REI's winter clearance sales are epic, with deals on many types of gear with discounts to 50% and even 60% when you shop at the REI Outlet. For 2020, the REI's slashed prices on select electric bikes and mountain bikes up to 50%.
From REI's wide selection of bikes on sale, we found the best discounts on electric bikes for commuting, adventure riding, and e-mountain bikes from Cannondale and Ghost. We also selected non-electric bikes, including mountain, trail, and fat-tire bikes from Cannondale and Diamond and a Salsa expedition bike. Whether you want to take advantage of REI's winter clearance sale to upgrade to a new bike or if you want to add to your two-wheeled fleet, these seven deals can help you save up to $3,000.
Deals Summertime's over, but it's still a great time to pick up a new electric scooter. This is even truer now considering there are some great deals on select bestselling models at Walmart and Amazon. You can save up to $170 with these sales, and we were also able to locate a Walmart exclusive model that, while not on sale, is an excellent deal for those looking to save money.
Why buy an electric scooter? In addition to their apparent environmental benefit, electric scooters provide a better option for those of us using alternative mobility methods to get to work. Who wants to arrive at work a sweaty mess? On a warm day on a bike, you just might. Plus, they're a whole lot of fun too. Here are the best deals we've found.
Xiaomi Mi Electric Scooter - $379 Deals Electric bikes serve many purposes, including exercise, cruising, commuting, trail riding, and even basic transportation in villages and cities. Spiking interest in ebikes has resulted in an increase in great discounts. REI, Amazon, and Walmart all have attractive deals on ebikes during the best Labor Day sales.
You can find ebikes for $500 to $10,000 with an often bewildering array of styles and purposes. We've found the best discounts on ebikes from REI, Amazon, and Walmart and put them all in one place. We also made observations about the best use for the bikes in these deals. Whether you're buying your first ebike, upgrading, or adding to your collection, these six deals can help you save up to $1,800.
Cannondale Quick NEO ebike - 2019 -- $693 off Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
