Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Outdoors Products The 13 best gifts for runners By Kailla Coomes Close You either look forward to going for a morning run every single day or you absolutely dread it. If you find yourself leaning towards the latter, what are you supposed to get someone who loves hitting the pavement? You might be racking your brain to find the best gift for the runner in your life, especially if your idea of fun is binge-watching Netflix shows all day long. Fret not, we’ve sifted through the latest gadgets, coolest gear, and sleekest apparel in the running world to give you a hand with your holiday shopping woes. From a high-performing running watch to one of the best running headphones in the market, you’ll find something they’ll definitely love to receive right here.
Echelon Stride G-Run Hydration Running Belt Night Trek Shoe Lights Arc’teryx Norvan SL Jacket Balega Silver Ion Socks Katadyn BeFree Collapsible Flask SCARPA Spin Running Shoes AfterShokz Aeropex Open-Ear Headphones Garmin Forerunner 645 SPY Hunt Sunglasses AmazonBasics Foam Roller Belkin Fitness Armband Garmin Vivosmart HR+ Echelon Stride Image used with permission by copyright holder If your runner craves consistent training, the new Echelon Stride treadmill is ready for the hardest endorphin-infused workouts with on-demand classes and instructors. Only 10-inches deep when folded, the portable Stride doesn’t dominate the room. When they’re ready to run, they can wheel the lightweight treadmill in place, position the handlebars and console, press a lever, and Stride’s Auto-Fold tech opens the machine ready to run. A frame-balanced elastomer deck suspension absorbs impact on an ample 55-inch-x-20-inch running surface at speeds from 0.5-to-12-miles-per-hour and up to a 10-degree incline, powered by an energy-efficient 1.75-horsepower motor. Running was never before this accessible year-round.
G-Run Hydration Running Belt Image used with permission by copyright holder If you’re looking for an affordable gift that will still be highly appreciated, the G-Run hydration running belt is an ideal choice. This belt is suitable for anyone who is constantly taking on various outdoor activities, including running. It comes with two bottles that don’t bounce around when running. Aside from the bottles that will keep them hydrated, it also has different compartments. They can put their phone, spare cash, card, car keys, and even a snack in this belt. Talk about a functional item perfect for every type of runner.
Here are the best tech gifts you can snag for $100 or less Nike Fit aims to help you slip into your new sneakers more easily Night Trek Shoe Lights Image used with permission by copyright holder If the person you’re shopping for likes to run at night, these Night Tech Gear Shoe Lights will help keep them visible while also allowing them to avoid rocks, ruts, and sidewalk cracks. The water-resistant contraptions blast 150 lumens up to 30 or more feet ahead of the runner, offering light to illuminate whatever surface they’re jogging on. Rear-facing red tail lights also let drivers know where they’re at, and the whole unit offers 270 degrees of visibility. The devices clip on securely, delivering three to five hours of light in one stretch of battery life.
Arc’teryx Norvan SL Jacket Image used with permission by copyright holder This lightweight trail running jacket is constructed with ShakeDry, a type of Gore-Tex technology that doesn’t have face fabric, allowing it to weigh less than similar Gore-Tex shells. The breathable, packable jacket clocks in at just 4.2 ounces and can be compressed into a tiny ball. Lastly, the waterproof hood of the Arc’teryx Norvan SL Jacket rolls back and snaps together so it doesn’t flap around when not in use.
Balega Silver Ion Socks Image used with permission by copyright holder You’ll never experience softer, more securely fitting training socks than Balega’s Silver Ion line. Unlike many runner’s socks, which tend to slide down and bunch up around the heel, the Balega Silver Ion Socks offer compressive arch support bands that keep them fitting snugly — there’s even a high heel tab that hugs the inside of shoes and an extra deep heel pocket to prevent sliding. The design encourages a more natural foot movement and improved circulation. This line of Balega socks uses technology that encapsulates the sock fibers in silver ions for enhanced antibacterial properties, which, paired with the fabric’s Drynamix moisture management, keeps a runner’s feet dry and odor-free.
Katadyn BeFree Collapsible Flask Image used with permission by copyright holder This lightweight, award-winning water flask has a built-in filter, allowing runners to “be free” of the hunt for hydration , filling up their bottles virtually anywhere and letting the flask’s EZ-Clean Membrane clean it up for them. The Katadyn BeFree Collapsible Flask features a gentle-squeeze top and a removable filter that easily pops out for a quick rinse. The collapsible design even allows it to fit into small backpacks and some pockets.
SCARPA Spin Running Shoes Image used with permission by copyright holder The Spin is a sleek trail running shoe that offers high-level performance without the cumbersome bells and whistles. The SCARPA Spin Running Shoes perform fabulously on technical terrain, allowing runners to tackle hills faster and enjoy precise foot control. It features a Vibram outsole with Megagrip technology, a high-density rock plate, and a mesh upper with a welded PU overlay. All told, it’s a great running shoe that offers superior stability in a simple, minimalist package.
AfterShokz Aeropex Open-Ear Headphones Image used with permission by copyright holder If you want to splurge on your runner friend’s gift, you might as well check this out. The AfterShokz Aeropex is among the best headphones for runners. These wireless on-ear headphones give them superb sound quality while keeping their ears open to any ambient noise. Listening to tunes while running is fun and all, but you still want safety to be a priority. These waterproof headphones can also last up to 8 hours on a single charge. On top of that, the Aeropex is lightweight and comfortable, which makes it perfect to wear for a long period of time.
Garmin Forerunner 645 Image used with permission by copyright holder Garmin’s Forerunner 645 is one of the best watches available for runners, particularly those who love to listen to music when hitting the pavement (and who doesn’t?). Once downloaded to your watch, you can easily listen to your favorite tracks sans your smartphone , while simultaneously tracking your heart rate, calories burned, personal records, steps, and a host of other fitness metrics. In addition to the aforementioned fitness features, the Garmin Forerunner 645 provides text notifications, calendar access, sleep tracking, and weather info. Your friend will be floored by all of the features, not to mention the seven-day battery life.
SPY Hunt Sunglasses Image used with permission by copyright holder Happy runners are fast, effective runners. This cool pair of shades from SPY boasts Happy Lens technology that filters out bad short-wave blue light, allowing more long-wave blue light to penetrate the lens. The idea is that more of this type of ray — which has been connected to improvements in the mood — will theoretically boost happiness and make for a more enjoyable run or outdoor activity. The SPY Hunt Sunglasses’ lens technology also offers stellar visual clarity, enhancing colors and contrast to make training safer and more effective. These “trail to tavern” sunglasses even have a stylish, casual frame with sturdy Grilamid material, letting them look as good as they function.
AmazonBasics Foam Roller Image used with permission by copyright holder After a good run, nothing is better for your body than stretching. Luckily, Amazon’s High-Density Foam Roller is ideal for just about everything, from strengthening to rehab exercises. The lightweight roller is easy to clean and transport, too, and relatively inexpensive given its part of Amazon’s proprietary product line. You can even re-position the roller to target specific muscles and to assist from one routine to the next. Your friend — and their muscles — will thank you for the relief.
Belkin Fitness Armband Image used with permission by copyright holder Music is essential for any run, and a reliable armband is just as important. The Belkin Fitness Armband is the perfect fit for your friend’s iPhone X.
 The custom-fit armband features an ultra-thin fabric strap that threads through a durable metal loop, securing at the perfect length to hug their arm closely. The reflective accents on the armband provide increased visibility as well, keeping your friend safe as they run. The fact that the band is both sweat-proof and hand-washable is just a plus.
Garmin Vivosmart HR+ Image used with permission by copyright holder The Garmin Vivosmart HR+ is our pick for the best fitness tracker for a dedicated runner. And your friend is dedicated, right? It’s basically like running alongside a computer that monitors your heartbeat, tells you how many calories you have burned, and tracks your GPS and pace, all while mapping out your run or walk. It can also receive emails, calls, text, and social media alerts. If your friend is the type that loves to run on a treadmill, the Garmin Vivosmart HR+ can track any activity indoor and out. It also comes in a variety of colors, so your dedicated runner will have lots to choose from.
Editors' Recommendations The 12 best gifts for skiers and snowboarders The best Father’s Day gifts for outdoorsy, adventure-loving dads Buying Guides Buying Guides Outdoors EcoFlow, a manufacturer of portable energy solutions, has announced the launch of the Delta 2 Max -- an eco-friendly solar generator that could replace your current gas generator. The device clocks in at 2,048 watts and should deliver enough power to keep your home running for two days as an emergency backup (or many more if you’re using it as an off-grid power source).
The original Delta Max was a popular item for outdoor adventures, as it could connect to the existing lineup of portable EcoFlow solar panels to juice up gadgets while out in the backcountry. That legacy continues with the Delta 2 Max, which features an upgraded lithium iron phosphate (LFP) battery for a longer life cycle and faster charging.
Outdoors Warm weather is here, and so is grilling season. Now is as good a time as any to set out in search of one of the best outdoor grills, and it’s never a bad time to keep an eye out for a discount on one as well. Whether you’re a grilling beginner ready for some burgers with the family or a seasoned pro looking to host summer gatherings around one of the best smart grills and smokers, we’ve tracked down all of the details you need to land a deal on a grill that’s right for your needs. Read onward for more details.
Everdure CUBE charcoal grill — $150, was $199 The Everdure CUBE charcoal grill is a unique little grill that can truly go almost anywhere with you. It’s lightweight and only 17-inches long, yet still can handle almost any grilling challenge a griller on the go could hope to throw at it. It has a built-in heat protection shield and chrome handles that remain cool while cooking, and the removable charcoal tray offers easy cleanup when you’re finished at the campground or on the beach. Wherever you intend to do some grilling this summer, the Everdure CUBE charcoal grill is a great option as a copilot.
Outdoors The best electric bikes have come a long way in recent years and we don't just mean in terms of the miles you travel. With technology changing quickly, there are also an increasing number of electric bike deals around and we've picked out some of the very best. Electric bikes are a great way of getting around more easily and without necessarily needing to use as much stamina as a regular bike. Below, you'll find fantastic e-bike bike deals from many different retailers. There'll be something for every need here. Let's take a look at them.
Jasion EB5 Electric Bike -- $430, was $750 With a 350w brushless motor, the Jasion EB5 Electric Bike can achieve a top speed of 20 MPH with a range of up to 25-40 miles per charge. It has four working modes with a PAS mode where the motor assists with a moderate amount of power as you pedal, along with a Pure Electric Mode, a Pedal Mode, and a Booster Mode where the bike assist on hills and anywhere else you might be struggling. 26-inch puncture-resistant tires provide excellent durability while there's a high-strength front fork suspension, Shimano 7-speed gears, dual lights, and an LCD display. The latter offers controls for adjustable backlight brightness with one of five levels, along with mode controls.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
