Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Outdoors Products Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? The 12 best gifts for skiers and snowboarders By Kelly Hodgkins Close With the holidays fast approaching, you’re probably shopping for gifts to give to your loved ones. If there is a skier or a snowboarder on your list, it might be challenging to find gear or accessories they don’t already have or will actually use. If you’re not a winter sports enthusiast yourself, then this task triples in its difficulty.
SHRED Simplify+ Bigshow White Snow Goggles Wave Tool Outdoor Tech Chips 2.0 Wireless Bluetooth Helmet Audio Spy Optic Ace EC Goggles GoPro Fusion 360-degree Action Camera Phoozy Sweet Protection Switcher MIPS Helmet Swagtron Snowtide Smart Helmet Seirus MagneMask Combo TNT Carv Bluetooth Ski Instructor GoPro Hero7 Black Smith I/O Mag ChromaPop Snow Goggles You can always give a gift card, but we want to help you do better than that. To make it easier for you, we’ve compiled this list of the best gifts for skiers and snowboarders. You’ll find everything from cutting-edge ski and snowboard goggles to the best winter sports accessories available. Whether you are looking for a small stocking stuffer or a show-stopper gift, there’s something here for every skier or snowboarder.
SHRED Simplify+ Bigshow White Snow Goggles Image used with permission by copyright holder Every skier or snowboarder needs high-quality goggles for every action-packed moment in the snow. These Simplify+ snow goggles by SHRED are an ideal choice. These high-performing goggles give anyone who wears them a wider vision. The SHRED goggles also help combat flat light and provide better image definition. They can switch between lenses with ease, including the contrast-boosting lenses.
There are some great offseason deals right now on the best snowboard boots Uber offers skiers and snowboarders a hassle-free ride to the slopes The best Father’s Day gifts for outdoorsy, adventure-loving dads Wave Tool Created by a rock-climbing physical therapist, the Wave tool is an excellent recovery tool. The all-in-one soft tissue release tool has nine different surfaces — some straight and some curved — for massaging your achy muscles after a day of skiing or for releasing adhesions from a nagging injury.
Outdoor Tech Chips 2.0 Wireless Bluetooth Helmet Audio Pump up the volume while cruising through the powder with the Chips 2.0 Bluetooth speakers from Outdoor Tech. The helmet audio system drops into audio-ready ear flaps on many helmets and frees you from the tangled web of wired headsets. You can control your music right from your helmet and even make or receive phone calls.
Spy Optic Ace EC Goggles Image used with permission by copyright holder Don’t let changing weather conditions leave you in the dark. Grab a pair of the Ace EC googles from Spy Optic and see things clearly. The goggles embed electrochromic technology in the lens that allows you to transition between sunny, mixed, or flat weather visibility at the press of the button. For what it’s worth, these goggles were our 2018 Innovation Award winner from January’s Outdoor Retailer.
GoPro Fusion 360-degree Action Camera Daven Mathies/Digital Trends Once you dabble with the GoPro Fusion , you’ll find yourself saying If it’s not 360-degrees then it’s not worth recording. The Fusion goes beyond the single lens, fixed frame recording of the traditional GoPro cameras and expands it to a full 360-degrees. The Fusion action camera uses two lenses – one in the front and one in the back — to film everything around you. No more worrying about camera angles as the Fusion allows you to capture every angle at once.
You can’t appreciate the power of this recording style until you start editing your clips. You are not stuck watching the video from one perspective. You can pan to watch the action from the front or back, the left or right, or the top or bottom. You can even change perspectives on the fly as you compile the video using OverCapture into a flat file that everyone can watch. You don’t have to be a photographer or videographer to enjoy the creative power of the Fusion. You just need to send your hardest and let the camera do the rest for you.
Phoozy Image used with permission by copyright holder Don’t let falling temps drain the battery life from your phone. Wrap it in the insulating warmth of a Phoozy.
 Created with NASA technology, the Phoozy keeps your phone warm when it is cold and protects it from overheating on a sunny summer day. The spacesuit-inspired pouch also floats and is impact resistant up to six feet. With a price tag of $50 or less, it’s a no-brainer purchase.
Sweet Protection Switcher MIPS Helmet The Switcher MIPS helmet from Sweet Protection is the Cadillac of ski helmets. No detail was left unturned in the development of this badass helmet. It is lightweight, among the lightest helmets we have worn, and is well-ventilated thanks to the 22 combined front and back vents. The magnetic chin strap is pure genius and the ear pads are to die for — they fully cover your ears without painfully squishing them. To top it off, the helmet is equipped with MIPS , a safety feature that protects your noggin in case of a crash.
Swagtron Snowtide Smart Helmet Best known for its electric scooters and hoverboards, Swagtron is jumping into the ski helmet market with a smart helmet to beat all smart helmets. The Snowtide has integrated Bluetooth audio for listening to your tunes as well as making and receiving phone calls. Download the compatible Snowtide app and you can use the push-to-talk button on the helmet to chat with friends and family anywhere on the mountain.
Safety while skiing is vital so Swagtron went one step further and developed a smart SOS system that can detect a crash when your full send goes full jerry. In case of a crash, the helmet will activate an alarm that must be turned off in a short period of time. If a skier is incapacitated and can’t turn off the alarm, then the helmet will send out an alert to the skier’s emergency contact.
Seirus MagneMask Combo TNT Face mask or balaclava — which is better for a cold day on the slopes? Don’t agonize over the decision, choose both with the MagneMask Combo TNT from Seirus. As its name implies, the MagneMask uses magnets to attach a wind-protecting neo-fleece face mask to a thin balaclava that fits under your helmet. A warm layer of fleece wraps around your neck and rounds out the package. Wear the face mask and balaclava together on frigid days or easily remove the magnetic face mask when the temperatures start to climb.
Carv Bluetooth Ski Instructor Image used with permission by copyright holder Want to improve your skiing, but don’t want to pay for private lessons? Then check out Carv , an in-boot wearable and external Bluetooth tracker that analyzes your technique as you ski. The boot hardware analyzes your position and the pressure you apply as you carve up the mountain. These stats and more are sent to a connected smartphone app that provides real-time audio feedback as you ski. It’s like having a coach with you on every run.
GoPro Hero7 Black Daven Mathies/Digital Trends GoPro and skiing go together like apple pie and vanilla ice cream. Alone they are great, but together they are something special — and that didn’t change with the recently launched GoPro Hero7.
 The latest in the Hero lineup pushes the boundaries even further offering live streaming so everyone can watch as you drop into Corbet’s Couloir and a new in-camera stabilization system that’s a game-changer.
 Add to that the voice commands for hands-free recording and you have a new champ in the action camera market.
GoPro also released the $300 Hero7 Silver and $200 Hero7 White , both of which include a touchscreen display, voice commands, and more.
Smith I/O Mag ChromaPop Snow Goggles Image used with permission by copyright holder From its sunglasses to its snow goggles, Smith’s reputation in the optics industry can’t be beaten. Smith’s latest goggle is the I/O Mag , a rimless goggle with a magnetic lens attachment system. What sets the I/O Mag apart from the competition are the two locking tabs on either end of the google that help to hold the lens in place when a send goes horribly awry. You may have yard saled your skis and poles, but your lenses will stay firmly attached. A few well-placed AirEvac vents keep the goggle from fogging, while the Chromapop lens technology brings clarity and color to a whole new level.
Editors' Recommendations The 13 best gifts for runners Grab a great offseason deal on the best snowboards Here are the best tech gifts you can snag for $100 or less Strava joins Slopes to record your ski and snowboard stats Outdoors EcoFlow, a manufacturer of portable energy solutions, has announced the launch of the Delta 2 Max -- an eco-friendly solar generator that could replace your current gas generator. The device clocks in at 2,048 watts and should deliver enough power to keep your home running for two days as an emergency backup (or many more if you’re using it as an off-grid power source).
The original Delta Max was a popular item for outdoor adventures, as it could connect to the existing lineup of portable EcoFlow solar panels to juice up gadgets while out in the backcountry. That legacy continues with the Delta 2 Max, which features an upgraded lithium iron phosphate (LFP) battery for a longer life cycle and faster charging.
Outdoors Warm weather is here, and so is grilling season. Now is as good a time as any to set out in search of one of the best outdoor grills, and it’s never a bad time to keep an eye out for a discount on one as well. Whether you’re a grilling beginner ready for some burgers with the family or a seasoned pro looking to host summer gatherings around one of the best smart grills and smokers, we’ve tracked down all of the details you need to land a deal on a grill that’s right for your needs. Read onward for more details.
Everdure CUBE charcoal grill — $150, was $199 The Everdure CUBE charcoal grill is a unique little grill that can truly go almost anywhere with you. It’s lightweight and only 17-inches long, yet still can handle almost any grilling challenge a griller on the go could hope to throw at it. It has a built-in heat protection shield and chrome handles that remain cool while cooking, and the removable charcoal tray offers easy cleanup when you’re finished at the campground or on the beach. Wherever you intend to do some grilling this summer, the Everdure CUBE charcoal grill is a great option as a copilot.
Outdoors The best electric bikes have come a long way in recent years and we don't just mean in terms of the miles you travel. With technology changing quickly, there are also an increasing number of electric bike deals around and we've picked out some of the very best. Electric bikes are a great way of getting around more easily and without necessarily needing to use as much stamina as a regular bike. Below, you'll find fantastic e-bike bike deals from many different retailers. There'll be something for every need here. Let's take a look at them.
Jasion EB5 Electric Bike -- $430, was $750 With a 350w brushless motor, the Jasion EB5 Electric Bike can achieve a top speed of 20 MPH with a range of up to 25-40 miles per charge. It has four working modes with a PAS mode where the motor assists with a moderate amount of power as you pedal, along with a Pure Electric Mode, a Pedal Mode, and a Booster Mode where the bike assist on hills and anywhere else you might be struggling. 26-inch puncture-resistant tires provide excellent durability while there's a high-strength front fork suspension, Shimano 7-speed gears, dual lights, and an LCD display. The latter offers controls for adjustable backlight brightness with one of five levels, along with mode controls.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
