Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Outdoors Products Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? The best mountain bikes Chew up terrain with one of these trailblazing mountain bikes By Amanda Ellis Close Mountain biking has boomed in recent years and as a result, manufacturers have developed an increased number of specialized designs to appeal to this broad and nuanced market. There are now many models to choose from, but the Santa Cruz Hightower C R remains the best mountain bike on the market, namely due to its versatility, price, and blue-ribbon precision on the track.
Santa Cruz Hightower Carbon 29 R Complete Specialized Fuse Comp 6Fattie Specialized Turbo Levo FSR 6 Fattie Kona Process 153 AL/DL Specialized Rockhopper Comp 29 Diamondback 2018 Release 5C Carbon Further reading Best electric bikes Best fitness trackers Best smart helmets The Hightower C R isn’t for everyone, however. Some riders prefer factors such as cornering ability and weight over approachability, which is why we’ve sifted through more than 50 models and consulted a host of professional reviews to include alternatives geared toward a range of riding styles and terrain. Below, you’ll find recommendations for the best hardtail bike, the best power-assistance bike, and the best full-suspension bike, among others.
Santa Cruz Hightower Carbon 29 R Complete The best Image used with permission by copyright holder Why should you buy this? The Santa Cruz Hightower C R is a well-rounded mountain bike with enough get-up and go for novice riders and impressive capability on rugged terrain for more aggressive riders.
Who it’s for? Individuals who want great handling, speed, and a calm climb.
The best golf apps for iPhone and Android: 8 best ones in 2023 The best action cameras The best solar chargers for your phone or tablet How much will it cost? $4,000 Why we chose the Santa Cruz Hightower C R : The mountain biking industry is trending toward bigger wheels and the Santa Cruz Hightower fits the bill. Its 29-inch wheels are complemented by carbon rims, offering excellent precision, and 140 millimeters of front travel that takes you quickly down the trail. Our top pick is a solid option for both beginner and advanced mountain bikers due to an excellent combination of speed and handling.
This bike takes on burly trails with ease while still traveling comfortably across easier terrain. The Santa Cruz Hightower C R comes alive at slower speeds, making for an exciting bike for novice riders. Skilled riders will enjoy its efficient climbing capacity and the ability to withstand backcountry abuse. This bike could easily fit into the enduro category, as well.
Santa Cruz is coveted for its carbon fiber models and while this one doesn’t feature its top-of-the-line Carbon CC frame, it offers the same ride quality and durability while weighing just a touch more — making up for this weight is a reasonably lower price tag, however. The Santa Cruz Hightower C R is truly worth the bang for its buck, especially considering the NX drivetrain and RockShox Revelation.
Specialized Fuse Comp 6Fattie The best hardtail mountain bike Image used with permission by copyright holder Why should you buy this? It’s a no-nonsense model with everything you need to start riding — and who doesn’t trust the Specialized name? Who it’s for? Individuals who are just starting out or looking to up their game.
How much will it cost? $1,500 Why we chose the Specialized Fuse Comp 6Fattie : The “hardtail versus full-suspension” debate is one of the more polarizing arguments in mountain biking. Needless to say, you can’t have an extensive list of the cross-spectrum preferences without mentioning both models, and the Specialized Fuse Comp 6Fattie is one of our favorite hardtails. A relaxed geometry means equal parts speed and efficiency on climbs and descents.
This bike features wide 27.5+ tires, which make up for the lack of rear suspension and tackle obstacles with ease. The SRAM 11-speed NX drivetrain is everything you need in a bike of this caliber, complimented by a lightweight aluminum frame. The company’s hallmark short chainstays mean precise handling and climbing ease. If you’re a diehard-tailer, look no further — its affordable price tag is just icing on the cake.
Specialized Turbo Levo FSR 6 Fattie The best power-assistance mountain bike Image used with permission by copyright holder Why should you buy this? Because you should.
Who it’s for? The early adopters who like their mountain bikes like their Ferraris.
How much will it cost? $4,500 Why we chose the Specialized Turbo Levo FSR 6 Fattie : What’s not to love — except for the mouthful of a name — about the Specialized Turbo Levo FSR 6 Fattie? It’s part classic fat boy, part full-suspension, with intuitive motorized assistance. The Turbo Levo line of bikes all include a beast of a motor with up to 530 watts of power.
But this isn’t some push-button accelerator. Simply applying torque to the process (regardless of terrain) could easily result in a skid. On ascents or reckless, white-knuckled descents, a haphazard jolt of acceleration could quite literally steer you in the wrong direction. Fortunately, the Turbo Levo system uses a backend algorithm to sense your torque, speed, and cadence, then amplifies this sequence for maximum efficiency.
The bike uses a circular series of 10 lights along the frame to illustrate the battery life — each represents 10 percent of the total charge. In the center of this readout is a basic two-button interface allowing you to increase or decrease power. The Bluetooth-enabled system also connects to your smartphone via the Mission Control app. This allows you to finagle a range of motor dynamics from acceleration response to increasing turbo. Mission Control also tracks the metrics of your ride for those so inclined.
The Specialized Turbo Levo FSR 6 Fattie isn’t a one-trick-pony, and the bike itself is a beefy (albeit lightweight) aluminum fat boy. The 18-inch chainstays keep your rear wheel close for the casual wheelie, while the 3-inch front and rear wheel tires add unparalleled traction. These tires increase the total surface friction but with the added Turbo Boost, the increased workload is easily accounted for and then some. Do you need a robo-bike? Absolutely not. Is it nice to have the option to be partially chauffeured to the top of the trail? Yes. Yes, it is.
Kona Process 153 AL/DL The best full-suspension mountain bike Image used with permission by copyright holder Why should you buy this? The Process 153 AL/DL offers the brand-new patented Beamer Independent Suspension, which is one of the most advanced full-suspension systems on the market.
Who it’s for? Individuals looking to upgrade from their first full-suspension model to a higher-end cornering and pure descent monster.
How much will it cost? $3,600 Why we chose the Kona Process 153 AL/DL : The Process 153 AL/DL is part of Kona’s brand-new Process G2 (Second Generation) line which uses a patented Beamer Independent Suspension — a design that’s quickly being hailed as one of the best full-suspension systems on the market. The actuated shock along the top tube uses a single-pivot design for superior absorption and durability. This minimal motion, designed with wide pivots and oversized bearings, holds up against inevitable bowing, adding a hefty dose of durability. The Process 153 AL/DL climbs efficiently enough to please the cross-country enthusiast, while the overall suspension and short chainstays keep the earth firmly and evenly beneath your feet — even on full-throttle descents.
The bike is available in either 27.5 or 29-inch wheels, adding to its overall versatility. The Process 153 AL/DL achieves greater balance and control thanks to the incorporated tapered head tubes. The tube is wider at the head to more evenly absorb shock and more aptly grab the trail. Not just a safe bet, the Process 153 AL/DL is a jack-of-all-trades, more than capable of conquering the full gamut of terrains.
Specialized Rockhopper Comp 29 The best budget mountain bike Image used with permission by copyright holder Why should you buy this? Someone looking for more than a basic mountain bike without breaking the bank.
Who it’s for? The casual or beginner mountain biker.
How much will it cost? $850 Why we chose the Specialized Rockhopper Comp 29 : For those keeping track, that’s not one but two hardtails on the list. If you’re in the market for your first mountain bike, or you’re a casual rider in need of a more than a nuts-and-bolts model, the Specialized Rockhopper Comp 29 is a solid bet. The Rockhopper utilizes a classic minimalist hardtail design without coming across as wholly utilitarian. It is steady and firm on climbs, as are most hardtail designs.
While full-suspension packages keep you grounded and own the descent to a better degree, the bonus mechanical elements increase the price and propensity for extra wear and part replacement. Rather than perpetually upgrading components, this bike, priced under $900, should give you years of performance, so feel free to ride this baby quite literally into the ground.
On rougher trails, you’ll certainly feel every inch of the descent, and depending on your preference, that may or may not be a good thing. If you live for cornering or simply the love of the downhill grind, you’ll prefer one of the other full-suspension models on this list, however, the Rockhopper is certainly more than just a grocery-getter.
Diamondback 2018 Release 5C Carbon The best all-around mountain bike Image used with permission by copyright holder Why should you buy this? It features the elusive blend of swift, precise climbing with smooth suspension and shock absorption Who it’s for? Hardcore chargers who want fast and efficient climbs combined with wild and unruly descents How much will it cost? $4800 Why we chose the Diamond 2018 Release 5C Carbon : New for 2018, Diamondback released a high-end carbon version of its popular aluminum Release that’s meant to bridge the gap between uphill speed and downhill performance. The full-suspension bike showcases a patent-pending design featuring a long front and short tail combined with a low bottom bracket. The result is a ride that feels fast and responsive through tight twists and turns yet stable enough to take big hits.
Built with a Fox 36 fork, Eagle X01 drivetrain, and Descendant carbon cranks, the Release sits firmly in the elite bike category yet its price tag hardly reflects it. At $4400, it’s an extraordinary value for a bike with top-grade bells and whistles. Its Level Link suspension absorbs impact while remaining light and floaty with an efficient pedaling system that doesn’t waste a single motion.
Other features include Novatec hubs, a KS LEV Integra dropper post, and SRAM Guide RS hydraulic disc brakes with 180mm rotors that halt on a dime. Best of all, you can fully customize your perfect build via Diamondback’s Custom Studio and ship it 95 percent assembled via ReadyRide.
Other things to consider Is now a good time to buy? Now is definitely a great time to buy. Bike sales increase as the mountain biking season approaches. This often leaves consumers at the wrong end of the supply-and-demand spectrum.
Should I buy online or from a retailer/independent dealer? This is a matter of preference. However, unlike online purchases, going to an independent dealer allows you to try and negotiate a lower price and/or haggle for bonus deal sweeteners such as accessories or basic upgrades.
Also, dealing with a retailer or an independent dealer allows you to see the bike in person and take it for a test ride. While a bike may appear ideal on a website, it’s better to make sure the bike meets your height and reach requirements before making a purchase.
Editors' Recommendations The best electric bikes for 2023 How a superheated tent helped this mountain biker to Olympic gold The best telescopes The best cars for camping The best camper vans Buying Guides Buying Guides Cars Unless you drive a van or a pickup, putting a bike in your car is a bit of a hassle. It normally requires taking the wheels off, folding down the seats, and shoving the pieces into the cabin until the trunk lid closes. There's a good chance you'll end up with grease or mud stains on your nice upholstery. The simple solution is getting a bike rack.
Broadly speaking, there are three types of racks: Carriers mounted on top of your car, those that hang from the back with straps, and those that attach to your hitch. Which route you take depends on the type of car you drive, how often you need to carry a bike, and, of course, how much you want to spend. Regardless, these are your best options.
Mobile Using a bike computer is a great way to set goals and track cycling progress. However, if you've done any shopping around, you're aware of how expensive it can be. Mobile apps have even gotten so effective in recent years that we wouldn't blame you for wondering if you need a bike computer at all. Depending on your goals, it may make more sense to forgo the handlebar-mounted devices altogether and use your phone to record metrics.
Many cycling-focused apps measure data like speed, distance, and pace, and help with tasks such as route planning, goal setting, community building, coaching, or other bike-related objectives. Because there are so many available, the one you choose depends on what you want to use it for -- you may even want to use a few separate apps to accomplish different purposes. To help make the decision process easier, here are the best cycling apps for each type of function.
The best metrics tracker: Strava Outdoors Harley-Davidson signaled its intention to electrify its range when it introduced the Livewire, its first battery-powered motorcycle. Additional electric models are in the pipeline, and some of them will be at least partially powered by your legs. It formed a subbrand named Serial 1 to reach new buyers by entering the electric bicycle segment.
Serial 1 is named after Serial Number One, which is the oldest known Harley-Davidson motorcycle. It was built in 1903. 117 years later, the brand's first e-bike will borrow a handful of styling cues from its distant relative, including white tires, a black frame with gold lettering, and a brown seat propped up by a pair of polished springs.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
