Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Outdoors Products Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? The best portable power stations By Kraig Becker , Simon Sage and Nick Mokey Close Affordable and efficient portable power is a necessity these days, keeping our electronic devices operational while on the go. But there are literally dozens of options to choose from, making it abundantly difficult to decide which mobile charging solution is best for you. We’ve sorted through countless portable power options and came up with six of the best portable power stations to keep your smartphones, tablets, laptops, and other gadgets functioning while living off the grid.
The best overall: Jackery Explorer 1000 Adam Doud/Digital Trends Jackery has been a mainstay in the portable power market for several years, and today, the company continues to set the standard. With three AC outlets, two USB-A, and two USB-C plugs, you’ll have plenty of options for keeping your gadgets charged.
The 1002Wh lithium batteries in the Explorer 1000 provide up to eight laptop charges, 50 camera charges, or 100 phone charges. You can recharge the power station using an AC wall outlet, a DC port in your car, or a compatible solar panel. A built-in LCD readout also illustrates the current charge levels and the generator’s depletion and recharge rates. Read the Jackery Explorer 1000 review.
The best golf apps for iPhone and Android: 8 best ones in 2023 Save $300 on Growatt’s Latest INFINITY 1300 Portable Power Station, Right Now October Prime Day: Save 40% on this portable solar generator The best for the campsite: EcoFlow Delta EcoFlow EcoFlow has became one of the most interesting options for use at remote campsites. The EcoFlow Delta offers an incredible 1,260 watt-hours of battery life. When coupled with its 13 different charging ports — including six AC outlets — this portable generator actually provides enough juice to power small appliances such as an LCD TV or mini-fridge. Better yet, the battery charges up from empty to 80% in under an hour.
The EcoFlow Delta comes with a built-in handle, making it easy to carry to and from camp. It even operates in extreme conditions, continuing to function in temperatures ranging from -4 degrees to 140 degrees Fahrenheit. If you need a power station to keep your mobile devices, cameras, drones, and other devices running in the backcountry, the EcoFlow Delta is a great option.
The best for the long haul: Anker 757 Image used with permission by copyright holder Behemoth power stations don’t come cheap, and unlike a laptop or phone, there isn’t exactly a store in the mall you can lug yours to if it starts pouring out smoke. When you’re plunking down more than $1,000 on a gadget and relying upon it in emergencies, you had better have confidence that it’s going to perform for the long haul. For that peace of mind, we recommend the Anker 757.
All the brands we recommend here have solid reputations, but Anker offers something the others don’t: a five-year warranty. That’s a big deal, considering that Jackery and EcoFlow only back theirs for two years. With 1,500 watts of AC power, you’ll be able to power just about anything you’d plug into a household outlet, and 1,229Wh capacity is enough to power a modern, full-size fridge for about a day. Oh, it also looks like it would look at home aboard a space station, which is a refreshing pop of industrial design in a field of samey-samey plastic boxes.
The best for the mobile professional: Goal Zero Sherpa 100AC Image used with permission by copyright holder Modern road warriors need a different level of portable power than other users. In addition to keeping their smartphones, tablets, and other gadgets charged, they may also need to keep their laptops juiced and ready for work. The Goal Zero Sherpa 100AC is designed exactly for them, not only offering four USB ports but an AC outlet and wireless charging pad as well. Its compact and lightweight design — weighing in at just 2 pounds — makes it easy to tote along just about anywhere.
The Sherpa 100AC is equipped with a high-capacity battery and can also be used to charge camera batteries, drones, and Bluetooth speakers. For the mobile professional, this $300 battery pack is a godsend, keeping a bevy of technology functioning no matter where they’re off to next.
The best for your car: Noco Boost Plus GB40 NOCO / .
A backup generator for your home is a smart option, but we also recommend carrying a portable power source for your car. The Noco Boost Plus GB40 is a lightweight and compact device that has a variety of functions that come in handy during emergency situations. For example, the device comes with a set of jumper cables and, on a full charge, is capable of jump-starting a whopping 50 vehicles before its internal battery requires a recharge of its own.
The Noco Boost Plus GB40 is IP65 water-resistant and includes a built-in flashlight with up to 100 lumens of illumination. It can even serve as a blinking hazard light to warn approaching traffic of any roadside challenges. The power bank comes equipped with a USB port for keeping a smartphone or tablet juiced up while on the road.
The best for smartphones: Anker PowerCore Speed Anker Sometimes we need a power station that’s a bit more portable than the other options on this list. That’s where the Anker PowerCore III 10K Wireless comes into play. Compact and lightweight, this battery pack is equipped with a 10,000mAh battery, which is enough to recharge an iPhone at least twice. With its auto-sensing, surge-protecting circuitry, the PowerCore ensures our mobile devices stay safe while recharging their internal batteries.
The PowerCore III 10K Wireless includes two USB battery ports, both of which support the Qualcomm Quick Charge 3.0 technology. This feature allows devices to safely recharge at a rate nearly four times faster than usual — a handy option when charging on-the-go. The most convenient part of this battery is its Qi wireless charging capability, eliminating extra fiddling with cables. It even has a little built-in stand so you can enjoy a show while your phone is recharging.
Editors' Recommendations The best electric bikes for 2023 Jackery graduates from pioneer to sustainable master with latest launch Growatt VITA 550 portable power station keeps all your devices charged on the go There’s a huge sale happening on solar generators for Prime Day Have power anytime, anywhere with the new EcoFlow Power Kits Emerging Tech Smart Home Best Products Emerging Tech Portable Power Stations Outdoors This content was produced in partnership with Zendure.
A portable power station is a great thing to have around, whether it's for your home's disaster preparedness kit or for powering up your electronics on vacations and camping trips. Good power stations aren't cheap pieces of equipment, though, and while we feel that they're definitely worth the investment, it's important to get a capable one. It's also easy to underestimate how much wattage you'll actually need, and if you have found that other power stations aren't delivering enough energy to keep up with your lifestyle, then you need to check out the new Zendure SuperBase Pro 2000. Now's a great time to buy it, too, as Digital Trends readers can score a juicy $400 discount right now. Read on to learn more about the new Zendure SuperBase Pro 2000 power station and how you can save.
Deals The turbulence of the past two years has driven home the point that the unexpected can happen at any moment, causing many people to re-assess their own home preparedness. The scenario that you're most likely to encounter is an extended power outage, be it due to rolling blackouts, brownouts, natural disasters, or even just nasty storms. A grid failure is more than just an inconvenience: Not only will your electric appliances be rendered useless, but so too will any medical devices that require a power source, which could become a serious situation in a hurry.
The good news is that the new EcoFlow Smart Home Panel, now available for purchase for the first time, is a great way to defend your home against extended power outages while also making it easy to monitor and manage your daily energy use.
Outdoors Whether you love outdoor adventures like dispersed camping, you're living in an area that's prone to power outages, or both, a solar generator will prove to be a very valuable tool. They don't usually come cheap, but Amazon is offering discounts on solar generators today, so you might want to take advantage of this opportunity to get one for a lower price than usual.
A solar generator is an essential item from DT's brother site The Manual's checklist for going off the grid, but it's also important for your peace of mind as it will be of immense help for the situations when you'll need one. Here's your chance to buy one with a discount, as Amazon is selling the FlashFish 300W Solar Generator at $70 off, lowering its price to $153 from its original price of $223; the Progeny 300W Portable Power Station at $24 off with an additional $40 off upon checkout, bringing its price down to $206 from its original price of $270; and the Jackery Portable Power Station Explorer 500 at $100 off with an additional $50 off upon checkout, reducing its price to $450 from its original price of $600.
FlashFish 300W Solar Generator – $153, was $224 Progeny 300W Portable Power Station – $206, was $270 Jackery Portable Power Station Explorer 500 – $450, was $600 Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
