Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Outdoors Deals Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Best pressure washer deals: Up to $110 off Greenworks and Sun Joe By Bruce Brown Close Inspired by PowerWash Simulator and want to clean up your yard and mostly anything else that needs a pressure wash? We’ve got all the best pressure washer deals below so that you can save plenty of money while also keeping all your surrounding areas nice and clean too. Read on while we take you through the highlights with a pressure washer for every budget included here.
Sun Joe Electric Pressure Washer — $135, was $200 Greenworks Electric Pressure Washer — $190, was $220 Sun Joe XTREAM Clean Electric Pressure Washer — $190, was $240 Greenworks Pro Electric Pressure Washer — $320, was $430 Sun Joe Electric Pressure Washer — $135, was $200 Sun Joe Designed with both indoor and outdoor cleaning tasks in mind, the Sun Joe Electric Pressure Washer will take all the effort out of cleaning up your patio, porch, deck, garage, laundry room, or even your car. It has a powerful 13-amp motor which generates a maximum of 2,000 PSI and 1.95GPM. Its 5.7-amp wet/dry vacuum motor can generate up to 49.2 cubic feet of airflow for great range. It also comes with a 10-fluid-ounce foam cannon if you need a boost to your cleaning efforts, while there’s a 20-foot high-pressure hose too. To further add to the flexibility, a 35-feet power cord means you’re not tied to being near a power source all the time.
Greenworks Electric Pressure Washer — $190, was $220 Greenworks The Greenworks Electric Pressure Washer has up to 2,000 PSI along with 1.2 GPM. Its 14-amp motor ensures exceptional cleaning power while being suitably water-resistant. It has an open frame design with 10-inch wheels so it’s simple to move around. It comes with a metal wand, soap, and turbo nozzles, along with multiple quick-connect wand tips for other cleaning tasks. An onboard soap tank proves useful while there’s a 25-foot kink-resistant hose that’s capable of dealing with a lot of situations, while a 35-foot power cord ensures plenty of range.
Sun Joe XTREAM Clean Electric Pressure Washer — $190, was $240 Sun Joe The Sun Joe XTREAM Clean Electric Pressure Washer combines gas-like power with the convenience of electricity. An eco-friendly 13 amp motor can generate up to 1,700 pounds per square inch of pressure, ably breaking down dirt, grease, and other grime. Up to 1.2 gallons per minute of maximum flow rinse anything unwanted away. Alongside that is Sun Joe’s XTREAM foaming which is an onboard detergent foam cannon that aerates detergent before shooting it up to 15 feet away for maximum coverage. There are four quick-connect nozzles with different degrees that provide a range of spray patterns for all kinds of tasks. Up to 1,700 PSI of pressure and 1.2 GPM of flow means nothing in your yard is safe if you don’t want it to be. It also has a 20-foot steel-reinforced, high-pressure hose and a durable stainless steel lance with solid brass fittings. A 35-foot power cord rounds off things nicely.
Greenworks Pro Electric Pressure Washer — $320, was $430 Greenworks The Greenworks Pro Electric Pressure Washer is a powerful pressure washer delivering up to 3,000 PSI at 2.0 max GPM. It has a great 14-amp Trubrushless motor with an axial cam pump so you get great power and efficiency at once. It has digitally controlled auto-adapting technology so you get maximum cleaning power with any nozzle. Alongside that, the intelligent PCBA maximizes cleaning power by adjusting motor speeds to adapt to your needs. A hassle-free push button start powers things up instantly while you even have the ease of a thermal relief valve that purges hot water from the pump as needed. It also has a rugged steel frame with a wheelbarrow design so you can easily move it around via the 10-inch never-flat wheels.
Editors' Recommendations Best lawn mower deals: cordless, gas, electric and robotic Deals Cheapest Prices Outdoors This content was produced in partnership with Upway.
It wasn't too long ago that e-bikes were a rare sight, but all of that has changed, and rightfully so. Electric bikes are all over the road these days, and there are many brands either venturing into the technology, to launch their own versions of the sustainable transportation option or reiterating existing and traditional designs. From Aventon to Schwinn, or RadPower to Momentum, with so many opportunities, the prevailing question is, where do you go to find the best deals and the best information about these brands and their e-bike models? The answer is Upway, the number one certified electric bike provider and an official partner to many of the aforementioned brands.
What is Upway, exactly? It's a marketplace, specializing in e-bikes, featuring an inventory that's sourced from some of the best brands in the world. There are American brands -- like Specialized, Cannondale, and RadPower -- and European brands -- like Riese, Muller, and VanMoof. The best part is the discounts, offering up to 60% off retail, for a plethora of brands. Upway is on a mission to make sustainable mobility affordable for everyone. It's also one of the best places to go for a new or pre-owned e-bike, and here's why: Outdoors EcoFlow, a manufacturer of portable energy solutions, has announced the launch of the Delta 2 Max -- an eco-friendly solar generator that could replace your current gas generator. The device clocks in at 2,048 watts and should deliver enough power to keep your home running for two days as an emergency backup (or many more if you’re using it as an off-grid power source).
The original Delta Max was a popular item for outdoor adventures, as it could connect to the existing lineup of portable EcoFlow solar panels to juice up gadgets while out in the backcountry. That legacy continues with the Delta 2 Max, which features an upgraded lithium iron phosphate (LFP) battery for a longer life cycle and faster charging.
Outdoors Warm weather is here, and so is grilling season. Now is as good a time as any to set out in search of one of the best outdoor grills, and it’s never a bad time to keep an eye out for a discount on one as well. Whether you’re a grilling beginner ready for some burgers with the family or a seasoned pro looking to host summer gatherings around one of the best smart grills and smokers, we’ve tracked down all of the details you need to land a deal on a grill that’s right for your needs. Read onward for more details.
Everdure CUBE charcoal grill — $150, was $199 The Everdure CUBE charcoal grill is a unique little grill that can truly go almost anywhere with you. It’s lightweight and only 17-inches long, yet still can handle almost any grilling challenge a griller on the go could hope to throw at it. It has a built-in heat protection shield and chrome handles that remain cool while cooking, and the removable charcoal tray offers easy cleanup when you’re finished at the campground or on the beach. Wherever you intend to do some grilling this summer, the Everdure CUBE charcoal grill is a great option as a copilot.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
