Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Outdoors Products There are some great offseason deals right now on the best snowboard boots By Ed Oswald Close With the long offseason here, now is a good time to snag a super deal on all kinds of snowboarding accessories. We’re spotting deals offering up to half off the normal retail prices (and in some cases more than that), and with the early end to the season due to a warm winter and everything that’s been going on in the world, retailer’s stock of the most common sizes is better than it’s been for offseason sales of the past.
Men’s DC Phase K2 Maysis Burton Moto Boa Burton Invader Women’s Burton Mint Solomon Ivy Burton Coco DC Search Boa How to pick the right snowboard boot One piece of equipment we’re seeing good deals on is on snowboard boots. And they’re very important to a good day on the hill. Good boots turn your day into a heavenly montage of cozy lines and cushy powder turns underscored by warm, toasty feet, while an inferior pair creates a horror sequence of frozen toes, cramped ankles, and numbness that will ruin your day.
Your boots are a critical part of your winter gear closet and they must fit you correctly — your foot shape, fit preference, and riding style. And just like with snowboards , you want the best snowboard boots you can find. Here is a list of the best snowboard boots available.
Grab a great offseason deal on the best snowboards Men’s DC Phase Image used with permission by copyright holder DC’s Phase snowboard boot is one of the best “value” snowboarding boots out there, without being “cheap,” either in construction or design. A medium-stiffness boot, the Phase is perfect for the rider who spends equal time on the mountain and in the park. Using traditional lacing, strategically designed overlays in the upper parts of the boot allow better leverage for optimal shell closure and custom fit.
While the sole insert is less cushiony than more expensive boots, it’s still comfortable enough for all-day wear on the hill. The Unilite outsole is durable and offers a lot of shock absorption and cushioning while walking without adding a good deal of weight. All in all, the DC Phase is a great mid-priced boot for freeriders, although park rats might want to look elsewhere.
K2 Maysis Image used with permission by copyright holder The K2 Maysis boot saw a recent redesign that makes this season’s version much lighter and more comfortable than ever before. One of its most attractive features is its double Boa system, which allows you to adjust both the outer shell and inner liner — making it extraordinarily easy to dial in the perfect fit.
Like the DC Phase, the K2 Maysis is also a mid-flex boot, making it another perfect all-around boot. But with the addition of both a better Vibram insole and the aforementioned double Boa system, you’re going to find this boot will fit you far better. The construction of this boot is solid: The Maysis line has held up for its owners over multiple seasons. There’s nothing here that suggests the reworked 2019-20 boots won’t do the same.
Burton Moto Boa Image used with permission by copyright holder Burton’s Moto Boa boot aren’t the cheapest on the market, but they earn high marks for their fit (even though you might want to buy a half-size bigger) and durability. Burton’s Boa system uses the company’s exclusive New England rope laces, which it claims lasts longer than competing Boa lace systems. There’s also no break-in period, and its imprint liner with its own lacing keeps your feet comfortable and warm without cutting off your circulation.
Buyers report the boot is lightweight and responsive and it stays dry even in the slushiest conditions. However, as we said above, the Burton Moto Boa seem to run smaller than they should, so it might be a good idea to order the next size up to ensure a correct fit. Tight boots can ruin your day on the hill real quick.
Burton Invader Image used with permission by copyright holder While you might have got the impression from the previous boot that all of Burton’s boots are expensive, that’s not the case. The Burton Invader boots are a great option for beginning riders, and while cheap in price, they’re not necessarily lower quality.
You’ll get the same kind of inner liner and outsole construction of the much more expensive Moto but without the Boa lacing system. The Invader are also not as durable as the Motos in our opinion, but we’d recommend moving to better boots by the time these wear out anyway. Buyers report the fit is nice, although perhaps like the Motos buying a size up might give you better results.
Women’s Burton Mint Image used with permission by copyright holder The Burton Mint is a good option for those that want a better fit than traditional lace systems can provide, but don’t like the idea of mechanical parts (that can break) controlling the most vital part of your boot’s fit. Burton calls it speed zone lacing, and you’ll be shocked at how fast you can lace these up and even customize the fit of the upper and lower zones of the boot.
Buyers report that the fit of Burton Mint is on point for most size feet, and the construction is durable and lasts. While the lacing system might take a bit of getting used to, it gets high marks for being able to stay tight even after several aggressive runs on the hill. One word of caution: If you have wider feet or high arches, you may want to look elsewhere.
Solomon Ivy Image used with permission by copyright holder If you enjoy a day on the hill, but enjoy it more after lapping the boys in the park, then the Solomon Ivy boot is the perfect boot for you. The boot’s softer flex lends itself to better performance in the park, but it will do well in all but the blacks and double blacks everywhere else if you keep your speed in check. The Zonelock lacing system allows you to quickly customize the tightness of the upper and lower parts of the boot, and its interior line is heat-moldable for the perfect fit.
We think this is a boot for intermediate and advanced riders. If you’re a beginner, we’d recommend a stiffer boot as your mechanics aren’t going to be what they need to be to use a softer boot. Any of our other recommendations should work. However, even for some more advanced riders who spend little time in the park, the Ivy Sterling might not be your best option.
Burton Coco Image used with permission by copyright holder Like the Invader boot for men we talked about earlier, the Coco boot is Burton’s entry-level option that provides higher-end features at an affordable price. The Coco is the same boot as the Invader, but the cushioning of the boot is unique and customized to a women’s foot.
Owners report the Coco fits great and is comfortable. We think these boots would work best for beginners as they aren’t as flexible, but these will definitely last you a few seasons before you’ll want to look for a better quality option.
DC Search Boa Image used with permission by copyright holder Boa-laced boots are typically your most expensive boot, so the DC Search Boa caught our eye as it is cheaper than most other options we’ve listed, and gets exceptionally good reviews for their comfort — even for those with wider feet. Their lightly firmer construction makes this boot a good choice for freeriders, with just enough flex for a few runs in the park if you so choose.
We’re big fans of the exterior construction of the boot which uses faux leather to repel moisture and water from your boot, keeping your toes warm and dry. Our only beef with the DC Search Boa is the insole: It’s basic and we’d expect something better out of a boot at this price. It is removable, however, allowing you to replace the insole with something more padded.
How to pick the right snowboard boot Buying boots online can be a challenge because every boot fits differently. However, there are some things you can do to make it a less stressful process.
Perhaps the easiest way to find the best boot is to go to a local shop and get professionally fitted. While this may cost you additional money upfront, you will have a much better idea of your foot size and what boots will and will not work. Keep in mind that most of us wear shoe sizes that are a half to full size too big. With snow sports, you want to have a snug fit that is still comfortable.
If you plan to travel at higher rates of speed or love the backcountry, then a stiffer boot will be necessary to ensure you have a much more responsive connection between you and your snowboard. Freestyle and park enthusiasts will want just the opposite, however, as it won’t restrict movement as much.
Most boots will come with medium stiffness, which makes them equally good (but not great) on both mountain and park runs. If you don’t know what to pick, medium stiffness is probably a good fallback.
Editors' Recommendations The best walkie-talkies Conquer the cold with the best heated clothing and outdoor apparel for 2020 Buying Guides Buying Guides Outdoors EcoFlow, a manufacturer of portable energy solutions, has announced the launch of the Delta 2 Max -- an eco-friendly solar generator that could replace your current gas generator. The device clocks in at 2,048 watts and should deliver enough power to keep your home running for two days as an emergency backup (or many more if you’re using it as an off-grid power source).
The original Delta Max was a popular item for outdoor adventures, as it could connect to the existing lineup of portable EcoFlow solar panels to juice up gadgets while out in the backcountry. That legacy continues with the Delta 2 Max, which features an upgraded lithium iron phosphate (LFP) battery for a longer life cycle and faster charging.
Outdoors Warm weather is here, and so is grilling season. Now is as good a time as any to set out in search of one of the best outdoor grills, and it’s never a bad time to keep an eye out for a discount on one as well. Whether you’re a grilling beginner ready for some burgers with the family or a seasoned pro looking to host summer gatherings around one of the best smart grills and smokers, we’ve tracked down all of the details you need to land a deal on a grill that’s right for your needs. Read onward for more details.
Everdure CUBE charcoal grill — $150, was $199 The Everdure CUBE charcoal grill is a unique little grill that can truly go almost anywhere with you. It’s lightweight and only 17-inches long, yet still can handle almost any grilling challenge a griller on the go could hope to throw at it. It has a built-in heat protection shield and chrome handles that remain cool while cooking, and the removable charcoal tray offers easy cleanup when you’re finished at the campground or on the beach. Wherever you intend to do some grilling this summer, the Everdure CUBE charcoal grill is a great option as a copilot.
Outdoors The best electric bikes have come a long way in recent years and we don't just mean in terms of the miles you travel. With technology changing quickly, there are also an increasing number of electric bike deals around and we've picked out some of the very best. Electric bikes are a great way of getting around more easily and without necessarily needing to use as much stamina as a regular bike. Below, you'll find fantastic e-bike bike deals from many different retailers. There'll be something for every need here. Let's take a look at them.
Jasion EB5 Electric Bike -- $430, was $750 With a 350w brushless motor, the Jasion EB5 Electric Bike can achieve a top speed of 20 MPH with a range of up to 25-40 miles per charge. It has four working modes with a PAS mode where the motor assists with a moderate amount of power as you pedal, along with a Pure Electric Mode, a Pedal Mode, and a Booster Mode where the bike assist on hills and anywhere else you might be struggling. 26-inch puncture-resistant tires provide excellent durability while there's a high-strength front fork suspension, Shimano 7-speed gears, dual lights, and an LCD display. The latter offers controls for adjustable backlight brightness with one of five levels, along with mode controls.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
