Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Outdoors Reviews Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Bluetti AC180 review: high capacity on the go By Simon Sage Close $1,099.00 High capacity Polished mobile app Wireless charging Power supply mode Fast charging via AC input Hefty Not built for the outdoors Some clutter in mobile app My apartment building’s air conditioners have been humming nonstop for about a month now, and I’ve been half-expecting the local grid to buckle any day. The Bluetti AC180 has been sitting on standby, offering plenty of assurance if the lights go out. This power station is big enough to keep the essentials running for a useful amount of time, but there are a lot of alternatives that claim to do as much. Let’s see what Bluetti brings to the table.
The basics Load-handling Mobile-friendly The bottom line The basics 1,800W total, 2,700W surge, 1,152Wh capacity 4 x AC out, 120V, 15A each 1 x USB-C out, 100W 4 x USB-A out, 5V, 3A 1 x car DC out, 12V, 10A 15W wireless charging Up to 1,440W AC in 12-60 V DC solar in 12/24 V car input Simon Sage / Digital Trends The design is sensible, and not overly flashy. The most panache you’ll find comes from a wipe animation on the built-in LCD when turned on. Two handles offer good grip, and they’re built flush with the chassis for easier packing. The flat top works for stacking in storage or transport, plus keeping your phone in one spot during wireless charging. Extra generous AC outlet spacing means they’ll fit all sorts of chunky, awkward plugs simultaneously. Putting the solar input on the same side as the AC input would’ve been nice, but you can’t win ’em all.
This portable power station has 6 AC outlets and can charge a Tesla The side-mounted fans are pretty quiet, even under heavy loads. You can activate a quiet mode if you’re especially picky about noise. Besides the listed inputs and outputs, there’s also a port for a grounding pole and fuse protection for AC input.
Load-handling Simon Sage / Digital Trends In terms of performance, the Bluetti AC180 can easily handle a full day at a work desk. I had my laptop, monitor, and phone all plugged into the AC180 for a day with over 30% still there at clock-out. My higher-powered gaming PC got through a full charge in four hours. I was especially excited that this was the first power station I’ve tested that has been able to run my decrepit high-wattage microwave.
Charging time was quite impressive given the AC180’s high capacity. I was able to top it up from empty within two hours. Our Emporia smart plug measured the AC180 putting out 976 Wh during a full discharge from 100%, which is about 15% less than its rated capacity. Disparities between the capacity we measure and what’s listed on the box are relatively common. I chalk it up to some capacity being held in reserve in order to protect the system from ambitious power-suckers taking the battery down to an actual 0% charge and damaging it.
Simon Sage / Digital Trends The battery chemistry is lithium iron phosphate, which is ideal at this capacity. While it doesn’t offer the same density as nickel manganese cobalt (NMC) batteries you’re likely to see in your phone or laptop, it does avoid the contentious use of cobalt, while also being less prone to fire. Bluetti claims the AC180 will last 3,500 cycles, and backs that claim with a five-year warranty.
Though my uses have been indoors, Bluetti is keen to brand the AC180 as an outdoorsman’s ideal sidekick. At 35 pounds., it’s technically portable, but I wouldn’t be hauling it to a mountaintop like the protagonist in their tearjerker of a launch video.
 If you’re hunkering down in one spot for a while, it’s quite solar-friendly. The box comes with an adapter for the MC4 plugs used on most solar panels.
Simon Sage / Digital Trends The Bluetti AC180 is available in solar bundles that include 120W, 200W, and 350W panels, but you can use other brands. My panel worked just dandy. The AC180 maxes out at 500W of solar input, so make sure to check the specs on yours before plugging in. As usual, your mileage will vary on solar charging times based on conditions.
The AC180 doesn’t seem to have any particular ruggedization or waterproofing certifications which would go a long way to establishing its outdoorsy chops. Even a simple LED flashlight, commonly seen among competitors, would make the AC180 a more viable option for camping. At best, the construction feels solid, and the beveled edges look like they could glance blows effectively.
Mobile-friendly Simon Sage / Digital Trends Bluetti has a perfectly capable mobile app to handle remote battery management. Pairing was painless and the advanced functions offered were totally worthwhile. For example, the Power Lift mode lets the AC180 power resistive heating elements under 2,700W. That came in handy for the heat gun I recently picked up, and worked just fine boiling water in my electric kettle. It wasn’t quite up to the task of running both the kettle and the heat gun on high for those times I’m applying window films and need a piping hot beverage simultaneously and immediately.
Eco mode turns off the battery after a period of inactivity, which is a nice way to prevent the inverter from needlessly wasting watts idling. The app can also manage batteries that are chained together for unified capacity. An uninterrupted power supply mode passes electricity from the wall straight through to your devices when the grid is up, then snaps to battery power within 20ms in the event of an outage.
The app does host a bit of bloat, however. Bluetti crams in forums and a store, which is really just an embedded view of their web page. I’ve seen Govee do similar things with its smart lighting app, and it can get pretty annoying when all you really want is device management. In terms of usability and visual flair, the mobile app is just as good as EcoFlow’s.
The bottom line Simon Sage / Digital Trends The Bluetti AC180 is the best power station I’ve reviewed to date. The only real detractions would be the bulky size and lack of faster USB charging. The lack of ruggedization and LED flashlight has me more inclined to pop the AC180 in my closet than my tent. These are small compromises in the grand scheme of things. On top of reliable performance, high capacity, and sensible design, the AC180 has slick extras like wireless charging and a quality mobile app. Those bonuses are really what puts it over the top.
In the category of mid-sized power stations that you would slide into your camper, the Bluetti AC180 is a safe bet.
Editors' Recommendations GoSun’s new portable power stations use the sun’s ray to charge devices Portable Power Stations Power Station Reviews Outdoors EcoFlow, a manufacturer of portable energy solutions, has announced the launch of the Delta 2 Max -- an eco-friendly solar generator that could replace your current gas generator. The device clocks in at 2,048 watts and should deliver enough power to keep your home running for two days as an emergency backup (or many more if you’re using it as an off-grid power source).
The original Delta Max was a popular item for outdoor adventures, as it could connect to the existing lineup of portable EcoFlow solar panels to juice up gadgets while out in the backcountry. That legacy continues with the Delta 2 Max, which features an upgraded lithium iron phosphate (LFP) battery for a longer life cycle and faster charging.
Outdoors Warm weather is here, and so is grilling season. Now is as good a time as any to set out in search of one of the best outdoor grills, and it’s never a bad time to keep an eye out for a discount on one as well. Whether you’re a grilling beginner ready for some burgers with the family or a seasoned pro looking to host summer gatherings around one of the best smart grills and smokers, we’ve tracked down all of the details you need to land a deal on a grill that’s right for your needs. Read onward for more details.
Everdure CUBE charcoal grill — $150, was $199 The Everdure CUBE charcoal grill is a unique little grill that can truly go almost anywhere with you. It’s lightweight and only 17-inches long, yet still can handle almost any grilling challenge a griller on the go could hope to throw at it. It has a built-in heat protection shield and chrome handles that remain cool while cooking, and the removable charcoal tray offers easy cleanup when you’re finished at the campground or on the beach. Wherever you intend to do some grilling this summer, the Everdure CUBE charcoal grill is a great option as a copilot.
Outdoors The best electric bikes have come a long way in recent years and we don't just mean in terms of the miles you travel. With technology changing quickly, there are also an increasing number of electric bike deals around and we've picked out some of the very best. Electric bikes are a great way of getting around more easily and without necessarily needing to use as much stamina as a regular bike. Below, you'll find fantastic e-bike bike deals from many different retailers. There'll be something for every need here. Let's take a look at them.
Jasion EB5 Electric Bike -- $430, was $750 With a 350w brushless motor, the Jasion EB5 Electric Bike can achieve a top speed of 20 MPH with a range of up to 25-40 miles per charge. It has four working modes with a PAS mode where the motor assists with a moderate amount of power as you pedal, along with a Pure Electric Mode, a Pedal Mode, and a Booster Mode where the bike assist on hills and anywhere else you might be struggling. 26-inch puncture-resistant tires provide excellent durability while there's a high-strength front fork suspension, Shimano 7-speed gears, dual lights, and an LCD display. The latter offers controls for adjustable backlight brightness with one of five levels, along with mode controls.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
