Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Outdoors Features Here comes the Boom: Meet the team that’s bringing back supersonic air travel By Luke Dormehl Close The iconic Concorde, the world’s first — and to date, last — supersonic commercial passenger jet, took its final transatlantic voyage on October 24, 2003. Taking off from New York’s John F. Kennedy International Airport, it flew to London’s Heathrow Airport in less than four hours, around half the time it takes today’s commercial airliners. For its historic, last ever flight, passengers on the British Airways jet included actress Joan Collins, supermodel Christie Brinkey, and a couple from Ohio who splashed out $60,000 on eBay to buy their tickets.
Building the future Supersonic travel on a budget The supersonic renaissance? It was the end of an era, a crowd of well-wishers gathering in London to view what felt, in some ways, like the end of the future: The conclusion to a dream in which flights took place in a commercial jet that flew faster than a bullet, faster than the Earth rotated.
Boom At the time, Blake Scholl was working at Amazon. He had started a couple of years earlier, in 2001, but had recently been upgraded from his initial job title as a software engineer, to a management position. Close to two decades on, Scholl is the founder and CEO of Boom Supersonics, a company that, in his words, is all about trying to continue what Concorde began. At present, it employs 150 people and has received backing from the likes of Richard Branson’s Virgin Galactic.
“I think of Concorde really as the story of a journey started, but not yet completed, of a big vision,” Scholl told Digital Trends. “For a variety of reasons, it fell short. [It shut down before people could] iterate and improve on it. We see ourselves as kind of picking up where Concorde left off, and building on that amazing technological legacy.” Building the future In October 2020, Boom showed off a one-third scale model of its riff on the supersonic jet, a futuristic lawn dart of an airplane called the XB-1, as smooth as a salesman’s tongue. In Francis Spufford’s excellent book Backroom Boys , the author describes Concorde as looking “as if a crack [had] opened in the fabric of the universe, and a message from tomorrow … poked through.” XB-1, which is itself a demonstrator model prelude to a larger future plane called the Overture, resembles Spufford’s description — with another half-century tacked on for good measure.
Boom “There are myriad fundamental improvements in aircraft technology that have happened since Concorde was designed in the ’60s,” said Scholl. “We’ve gone from aluminum to carbon fiber composites. We’ve gone from afterburn turbojets to clean, quiet, efficient turbofan engines. We’ve gone from having to develop aerodynamic wind tunnels — where your every iteration takes months and costs millions — to aerodynamic development through simulations, where you can test thousands of designs. [It means you] can arrive at an airplane design that is fundamentally more efficient as it moves through the air, and therefore requires less fuel and is less expensive to operate. If you take all those and add them up, it’s about a three-quarters reduction in cost versus Concorde.” Cost savings are pretty crucial when it comes to building out supersonic infrastructure. Concorde cost the French and British governments a total of $2.8 billion to get off the ground, both figuratively and literally, in 1969 — the same year as the first moon landing. It never recouped those costs, even if British Airways and Air France, the two airlines who bought Concordes for their fleet, scratched out the odd profitable quarters here and there from it.
Still, while it was beloved by celebrities, business people, and those other lucky few who could afford to fly it, Concorde was not necessarily a favorite among accountants. At least, not those who had to tally its profits and losses.
Supersonic travel on a budget “At the end of the day, the single biggest challenge with Concorde was that it cost about $20,000 in today’s money for a ticket,” Scholl said. “For the vast, vast, vast majority of people, that’s kind of a bucket list, wish list, kind of item; it’s not transportation. For supersonic to really change the way we all get around the planet, you have to get the cost down to the point that a lot more people can afford to take advantage of it.” Boom Initially, Scholl said, Overture flights will be equivalent to a business class flight. However, those prices, he believes, will come down even further. In fact, he’s convinced that it’s possible to reach a point at which the fastest flight is also the most affordable. It will be cheaper to travel by supersonic jet than to not do it. At least by present standards in transportation, that seems downright paradoxical. But Scholl is convinced that it can work. Shorter flights mean less time in the sky, which means more journeys every day. It’s the same argument used by theater owners, who have at times pushed for shorter movies because that means more screenings and, therefore, more punters per day.
Lower costs for the aircraft and its running costs don’t just translate to cheaper flights, either. It will also allow the team at Boom to sell more aircraft to airlines, vastly expanding the number of routes it can offer when compared to Concorde. The more units can be produced, the lower the manufacturing costs will be. Unlike Concorde’s regular London-to-New York route — a flight that Scholl said “barely made sense” on its own — Boom plans to operate on hundreds of routes. London to Dubai. Seattle to Shanghai. Tokyo to San Francisco. The list goes on.
Boom “There are many, many, many routes where you can cut the flight times in half, which generally means the passengers can leave a whole day later, and still get there in time for their meeting or their trip,” he said. Japan Airlines has already pre-ordered 20 of the Overture aircraft.
The supersonic renaissance? A fair question is to ask whether now is truly the best time to be launching a new, next-generation aircraft. It’s no coincidence that Concorde’s demise came not too long after 9/11. Among the myriad reverberations of that tragic event was the fact that far fewer people elected to fly. According to the International Air Transport Association, 9/11 resulted in a “large temporary impact” that caused travel demand to crater following the attack.
Daniel Roeska, a Bernstein Research transportation analyst, has described travel during the COVID-19 era as having a “ 9/11 feel ” in terms of demand. In some cases, travel is barred by measures set out to limit the transmission of the coronavirus. But, even without these blocks, it’s tough to imagine the world readily leaping back into the fray of air travel once everything settles down.
Scholl believes that things will get moving again, though. The first XB-1 demo flight will take place this year. However, the Overture will not take to the skies until 2026, and no commercial flight is planned until 2029. He pointed to the fact that “COVID aside” there has been “more and more and more” travel in recent decades. Telecommunication tools such as Zoom — the current substitute for many an international meet-up — are great, but they’re not a substitute for actually being there in person. Even if tools like Zoom get more sophisticated ( think virtual reality , for instance), it could wind up making the case for travel, especially high-speed travel, even more compelling.
Boom “I [actually] think the more the more telecom advances, the more frustration we will have with bad high friction travel experiences,” he said. ‘People will clamor for experiences that are faster, that are easier, that are less of a hassle … Short of having a teleporter, we won’t quite get there as easily as clicking a Zoom call. But that’s the direction to head in terms of frictionless travel.” The journey there should be quite the one to keep an eye on. As anyone who ever saw a Concorde flight will know, even watching from the ground can be exciting. Bring on what Scholl calls the supersonic renaissance.
“Our long-range mission is to make the world dramatically more accessible by building successive generations of travel that are faster, more affordable, and more convenient than what we have today,” he said. “That’s obviously a mission that will keep us busy for decades, if not for centuries. But our first real step forward toward that is the Overture airliner.” Features Outdoors EcoFlow, a manufacturer of portable energy solutions, has announced the launch of the Delta 2 Max -- an eco-friendly solar generator that could replace your current gas generator. The device clocks in at 2,048 watts and should deliver enough power to keep your home running for two days as an emergency backup (or many more if you’re using it as an off-grid power source).
The original Delta Max was a popular item for outdoor adventures, as it could connect to the existing lineup of portable EcoFlow solar panels to juice up gadgets while out in the backcountry. That legacy continues with the Delta 2 Max, which features an upgraded lithium iron phosphate (LFP) battery for a longer life cycle and faster charging.
Outdoors Warm weather is here, and so is grilling season. Now is as good a time as any to set out in search of one of the best outdoor grills, and it’s never a bad time to keep an eye out for a discount on one as well. Whether you’re a grilling beginner ready for some burgers with the family or a seasoned pro looking to host summer gatherings around one of the best smart grills and smokers, we’ve tracked down all of the details you need to land a deal on a grill that’s right for your needs. Read onward for more details.
Everdure CUBE charcoal grill — $150, was $199 The Everdure CUBE charcoal grill is a unique little grill that can truly go almost anywhere with you. It’s lightweight and only 17-inches long, yet still can handle almost any grilling challenge a griller on the go could hope to throw at it. It has a built-in heat protection shield and chrome handles that remain cool while cooking, and the removable charcoal tray offers easy cleanup when you’re finished at the campground or on the beach. Wherever you intend to do some grilling this summer, the Everdure CUBE charcoal grill is a great option as a copilot.
Outdoors The best electric bikes have come a long way in recent years and we don't just mean in terms of the miles you travel. With technology changing quickly, there are also an increasing number of electric bike deals around and we've picked out some of the very best. Electric bikes are a great way of getting around more easily and without necessarily needing to use as much stamina as a regular bike. Below, you'll find fantastic e-bike bike deals from many different retailers. There'll be something for every need here. Let's take a look at them.
Jasion EB5 Electric Bike -- $430, was $750 With a 350w brushless motor, the Jasion EB5 Electric Bike can achieve a top speed of 20 MPH with a range of up to 25-40 miles per charge. It has four working modes with a PAS mode where the motor assists with a moderate amount of power as you pedal, along with a Pure Electric Mode, a Pedal Mode, and a Booster Mode where the bike assist on hills and anywhere else you might be struggling. 26-inch puncture-resistant tires provide excellent durability while there's a high-strength front fork suspension, Shimano 7-speed gears, dual lights, and an LCD display. The latter offers controls for adjustable backlight brightness with one of five levels, along with mode controls.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
