Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Outdoors Features I was wrong. E-bikes are so practical, they’re a transit cheat code By Nick Mokey Close Confession: Despite loving both bikes and gadgets, e-bikes never excited me. Compared to my bicycle, e-bikes seemed unfair. Compared to my motorcycle, they seemed slow. Compared to my car, they seemed impractical.
Forget the spandex The fastest urban option Sharing the road Heavy hauling Everywhere is flat It’s just fun Don’t knock it till you try it But with $1,500 federal e-bike rebates potentially on the horizon at part of E-Bike Act , I decided it was past time to reconsider. Not just because 30% off would make them way more accessible, but because the entire idea that e-bikes could be worthy of a rebate changed the way I looked at them: less as toys, more as transit. Had I written off an entire way of getting around because I was looking at it the wrong way? Image used with permission by copyright holder Yup. After spending a couple weeks with the Aventon Level.2, I have a different perspective entirely. Here’s why bike snobs, motorcycle snobs, and even car snobs should take another look at the transit solution right under their (upheld) noses.
Forget the spandex Changing in and out of “bike clothes” every time you want to go somewhere is a hell of a deterrent to riding one. My bike commute used to entail an entire second wardrobe: bike shorts, clipless shoes, clean clothes to change into at the office, a second pair of shoes to plod around in the office with. And in the dog days of summer, I even needed to shower at work.
Spinciti’s Amsterdam e-bike offers speed and range at an affordable price Not with an e-bike. While I still need to gear up for the rain, I’m otherwise able to wear the same clothes I’d wear to the office. That means I no longer clomp through lobbies in bike shoes like a horse, or need to change in and out of different clothes four times for a daily commute. It removes a huge mental barrier to hopping on the bike. I used to drive four minutes to the hardware store when I was in a hurry because I could be there and back in the time it would take just to suit up for a bike ride. Now I can simply hop on an e-bike and be there just as quickly, which brings me to … The fastest urban option It should come as little surprise that e-bikes are faster than human-powered bikes – what’s the motor for, after all? But in an urban environment, they can also be faster than cars. Since I can slide between cars and use bike lanes, my office commute takes just 16 minutes on an e-bike, which would be closer to 20 in a car, and a few more minutes on a traditional bike. Even my motorcycle is slower, since I’m stuck in the same stop-and-go traffic as the cars.
The Aventon Level.2 comes out of the box capped at 20 miles per hour, which doesn’t sound that fast, but since you can effortlessly average this speed for the entire ride, it cumulatively shaved more time off my commute than I expected. And if you install the app, you can crank the max all the way to 28 mph — if that’s legal in your area.
Sharing the road Riding alongside cars means that extra speed can sometimes make you safer. For instance, when you need to leave a bike lane to, say, make a left turn, the motor assist means you can blend into car traffic rather than hoping everyone hits the brakes for you.
The boost is also handy when you need to start quickly from a dead stop, whether to sprint through an opening in cross traffic at an intersection, or get out of the way when someone makes an unexpected move. Stomp down on a pedal and whoosh , you’re across four lanes of traffic before anybody has a chance to do anything dumb. No fumbling with clip-in pedals or frantically flicking through gears.
Heavy hauling I have strapped some stupid stuff to a bike rack. Coolers, six-foot breaker bars, you name it. But it’s a nightmare to carry this much weight, and most of the time, I admit I just end up driving whenever cargo is involved.
This is an objectively terrible idea and I don’t endorse it.
Image used with permission by copyright holder An e-bike doesn’t care how much it carries. Two gallons of milk? A 12-pack of beer? An Amazon Echo Studio (surprisingly heavy at 7.7 pounds)? All cargo was tossed in a pannier bag and barely noticed on the Level.2.
Everywhere is flat Bike purists hate to admit it, but topography can seriously ruin a bike ride. Hills slow you down, drench your clothes in sweat, force you to take alternate routes, or may even prevent the ride entirely. A friend outside Seattle lives atop an enormous hill that would break just about any cyclist who’s not doping, and as a result, it’s effectively impossible for him to bike anywhere. He lives less than a mile from the urban core of his city, but never bikes there because the return trip is so arduous.
E-bikes let you ignore the terrain and go where you need to go without thinking too much about it. Is it “cheating?” Sure, if you look at biking as exercise. But if you’re just trying to get somewhere, the hill-crushing power of an electric motor is a game-changer that makes every road a viable commuter corridor.
It’s just fun The logic is simple: riding fast is fun. E-bikes make riding fast easy for everyone. E-bikes make bike riding fun for everyone.
I like to think I’m reasonably quick on a normal bike, but I still look forward to the punch the Aventon Level.2 gives me in pulling away from stop signs, and as a result, I started riding more. Fun is the missing incentive that keeps a lot of people off bikes, and e-bikes don’t force you to ride religiously for six months before you can get a grin. Maybe that’s not as good for you as biking every day without a battery under your butt, but if the alternative is a car, you’re still better off.
Don’t knock it till you try it While they’re not the fastest, the coolest-looking, or even the best for exercise, e-bikes are pretty damn unbeatable as a green way to get around town. And if the federal rebates become reality – they’ll be a lot more affordable, too. The Aventon Level.2 retails for $1,800, which would benefit from a $540 rebate under the terms of the proposed bill, dropping it to just $1,260. Other budget e-bikes can be had less for than $1,000.
Not sold? I understand. But next time a friend or coworker buys one, do yourself a favor and ask to take it for a spin. You may just find yourself shopping for a new ride.
Editors' Recommendations Bosch Kiox and SmartphoneHub hands-on: The sleek displays e-bikes deserve e-Bikes Earth Day Features Tech for Change The Food Fight Outdoors EcoFlow, a manufacturer of portable energy solutions, has announced the launch of the Delta 2 Max -- an eco-friendly solar generator that could replace your current gas generator. The device clocks in at 2,048 watts and should deliver enough power to keep your home running for two days as an emergency backup (or many more if you’re using it as an off-grid power source).
The original Delta Max was a popular item for outdoor adventures, as it could connect to the existing lineup of portable EcoFlow solar panels to juice up gadgets while out in the backcountry. That legacy continues with the Delta 2 Max, which features an upgraded lithium iron phosphate (LFP) battery for a longer life cycle and faster charging.
Outdoors Warm weather is here, and so is grilling season. Now is as good a time as any to set out in search of one of the best outdoor grills, and it’s never a bad time to keep an eye out for a discount on one as well. Whether you’re a grilling beginner ready for some burgers with the family or a seasoned pro looking to host summer gatherings around one of the best smart grills and smokers, we’ve tracked down all of the details you need to land a deal on a grill that’s right for your needs. Read onward for more details.
Everdure CUBE charcoal grill — $150, was $199 The Everdure CUBE charcoal grill is a unique little grill that can truly go almost anywhere with you. It’s lightweight and only 17-inches long, yet still can handle almost any grilling challenge a griller on the go could hope to throw at it. It has a built-in heat protection shield and chrome handles that remain cool while cooking, and the removable charcoal tray offers easy cleanup when you’re finished at the campground or on the beach. Wherever you intend to do some grilling this summer, the Everdure CUBE charcoal grill is a great option as a copilot.
Outdoors The best electric bikes have come a long way in recent years and we don't just mean in terms of the miles you travel. With technology changing quickly, there are also an increasing number of electric bike deals around and we've picked out some of the very best. Electric bikes are a great way of getting around more easily and without necessarily needing to use as much stamina as a regular bike. Below, you'll find fantastic e-bike bike deals from many different retailers. There'll be something for every need here. Let's take a look at them.
Jasion EB5 Electric Bike -- $430, was $750 With a 350w brushless motor, the Jasion EB5 Electric Bike can achieve a top speed of 20 MPH with a range of up to 25-40 miles per charge. It has four working modes with a PAS mode where the motor assists with a moderate amount of power as you pedal, along with a Pure Electric Mode, a Pedal Mode, and a Booster Mode where the bike assist on hills and anywhere else you might be struggling. 26-inch puncture-resistant tires provide excellent durability while there's a high-strength front fork suspension, Shimano 7-speed gears, dual lights, and an LCD display. The latter offers controls for adjustable backlight brightness with one of five levels, along with mode controls.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
