Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Outdoors Reviews Engwe EP-2 Pro folding mountain e-bike review: go anywhere, stow anywhere By Bruce Brown Close $1,100.00 Great value Fat tires handle any terrain Powerful motor Folds down to travel Lacks mirrors and turn signals Folding has a learning curve Bruce Brown/Digital Trends Why buy a folding e-bike? E-bike ads depict riders tooling along on beaches, mountain trails, and city streets, so who cares if the two-wheeler folds? The answers are transport, convenience, and independence. If you want to ride in places that aren’t close to home, a folding e-bike can be the answer to a question you didn’t think to ask. The Engwe EP-2 Pro e-bike is a surprisingly capable, well-equipped e-bike that folds into a compact size to fit in the back of your car, truck, or SUV. You can take the EP-2 Pro anywhere, and the $1,100 price is right.
Ready to ride One size fits nearly everyone Fat tires let you ride anywhere Easy to operate Performance matters Fold, lift, and store More for less Ready to ride The EP-2 Pro arrives fully equipped with a ton of standard accessories, including some that are often missing on models that cost more. It comes standard with front and rear fenders, a kickstand, an LED front headlight, and a rear light that shines brighter when you touch the brakes. There’s also a handy rear rack. The only items you may want to add are mirrors and turn signals if you plan on urban riding.
The best mountain bikes Gocycle’s new GXi electric bike can fold away in a mere 10 seconds A shipping company delivers your Engwe EP-2 Pro from the company’s California-based warehouse in a large 81-pound box. Inside you’ll find the mostly assembled e-bike, separate user manuals for the bike and electronic display, and tools to attach the front fender, LED headlight, front wheel, and pedals. After you slide the stems for the handlebar subassembly and nicely padded seat into their respective posts, it’s easy to adjust both to your height preferences. All cables and wires that attach to the handlebar are preinstalled and neatly organized and wrapped. Loose cables can flop around and look messy, but that’s not a problem with the EP-2 Pro.
One size fits nearly everyone Because of the e-bike’s height adjustable seat and handlebar, Engwe claims the EP-2 Pro is suitable for riders ranging from five feet two inches to six feet eight inches. The EP-2 Pro’s total carrying capacity — rider and cargo — is 330 pounds. In comparison, the latest version of Rad Power Bikes folding e-bike , the RadExpand 5, can carry up to 275 pounds for riders from 4 feet 10 inches to 5 feet 10 inches. The Aventon Sinch.2 folding e-bike fits riders from 4 feet 11 inches to 6 feet two inches with a maximum 300-pound load.
Fat tires let you ride anywhere When I began testing e-bikes in 2017, I thought fat tires were best for beach cruising but otherwise an inefficient design choice that looked cool but added weight and mechanical resistance to the bikes. I was wrong, at least partially. Yes, fat tires pack more weight and resistance on your bike, but their width lets you ride on almost any road, trail, or ground surface, including loose sand and rocks.
The Engwe EP2-Pro’s 20-inch diameter, 4-inch wide tires have relatively tall sidewalls that can flex to smooth out your ride. I dropped the front and rear tire pressures from the 20 pounds per square inch (psi) maximum inflation to 15 psi.
The EP2-Pro has no rear suspension, but with the front suspension adjusted for maximum travel in unlocked mode, the tire flex, suspension travel, and soft but supportive seat add up to a reasonably comfortable ride. The Engwe EP2-Pro isn’t optimal for high-performance mountain trail riding, but the design compromises add up to an extremely capable e-bike for casual rides, exercise, and commuting.
Easy to operate In addition to its go-nearly-everywhere versatility, the Engwe EP2-Pro e-bike is set up for simple operation. Once you set up the e-bike and adjust its seat and handlebar height, you can hop on and ride it without battery assistance.
The EP2-Pro weighs 68 pounds, about average for e-bikes. However, unlike most other electric bikes , I was surprised and pleased at how effortlessly I could pedal the Engwe without battery power. Riding up a steep incline can be a significant chore, but if you’re traveling on relatively flat roads or paths, you should find it possible to move along on muscle power only, using the Shimano 7-speed shifter to adjust pedaling effort and speed.
The e-bike’s mechanical disc brakes front and rear have plenty of stopping power when you’re riding with or without battery assistance. Unless you travel in predominantly hilly areas, riding the Engwe EP2-Pro with a depleted battery shouldn’t pose much of a challenge.
When you use the battery, the EP2-Pro has five electric assistance levels and three riding modes. The riding modes correspond to Class 1, 2, and 3 e-bike operation and speed limits allowed in most U.S. states. The default power setup mode conforms to Class 1, with electric power pedal assistance only with a 20-mile-per-hour (mph) maximum. A bright monochrome LED display shows your current power level, speed, distance traveled, and battery charge level.
Riding in throttle mode only, the EP2-Pro easily maintained 26 to 28 mph on paved roads.
The e-bike display has its own manual, but the type is so small I recommend downloading the online version from Engwe’s website so you can expand the font size. Using a combination of rubberized keys on the controller mounted on the left side of the handlebar you can enter comprehensive setup menus to change riding mode, top speed, and much more.
If you turn on throttle assistance in Class 2 mode, you can use the half-twist throttle control in the right handgrip by itself or with pedal assistance with the same 20 mph top speed. If you set up the EP2-Pro for Class 3 mode, you can also change the maximum speed to 28 mph, although Engwe recommends setting the limit to 25 mph.
Performance matters Yes, it’s fast. The Engwe EP2-Pro’s power train consists of a 48-volt 13 mAh Lithium-ion battery and Engwe’s own in-house-developed electric hub motor. According to Engwe, the motor is rated at 750 watts of continuous power and 960 watts in burst mode, with 55 Newton meters (41 foot-pounds) of torque. Motor power levels allow you to sustain high speeds and torque helps you accelerate quickly and climb inclines.
When you ride bikes for pleasure, pulling up to a sliding stop is often a lot of fun and it was easy to control with the EP2-Pro.
Numbers are nice, but how they translate to real-life performance matter more. I weigh 165 pounds and tested the Engwe on all surfaces with the tire pressures set to 15 psi. Riding in throttle mode only, the EP2-Pro easily maintained 26 to 28 mph on paved roads. When I stood on the pedals while riding off-road on relatively flat surfaces I was more comfortable keeping the speed in the lower 20s.
I was impressed by the Engwe’s performance on hills. We have a longish driveway with an incline of more than 20 degrees. I was able to ride straight up the driveway from a standing stop without tacking back and forth to maintain momentum — a tactic I’ve needed with e-scooters. When I rode up our driveway from a moving start, the speed bled off just a bit.
Engwe rates the EP2-Pro at up to 75 miles range in pedal assist mode, depending on rider weight, speed, and terrain. If you use throttle power only, the maximum drops to 31 miles. As with all e-bikes, you should cut your expected range by one-third to one-half the manufacturer’s ratings, at least until you have experience with your bike’s actual performance. Recharging the EP2-Pro’s 13-amp-hour battery requires about four and a half hours. You can charge the battery installed in the bike or remove it to charge in your home.
A note about the EP2-Pro’s Wuxing mechanical disc brakes. Hydraulic disc brakes are more desirable than mechanical models because hydraulic models require less handgrip pressure. The EP2-Pro’s 160mm disc is also the minimum size you want on a 28-mph e-bike. In my testing, however, the Engwe’s brakes stopped the e-bike very quickly with minimal handgrip pressure. When you ride bikes for pleasure, pulling up to a sliding stop is often a lot of fun and it was easy to control with the EP2-Pro.
Fold, lift, and store Bruce Brown/Digital Trends If you want to transport or store the Engwe EP2-Pro e-bike, you only need to fold it, lift, and place it where you want it. I found folding the Engwe had a slight learning curve but after a few practice tries it was quick and easy.
There are three steps to folding the EP2-Pro. First, loosen a single latch on the top crossbar to fold the e-bike roughly in half — this is also how you access the battery if you want to remove it. Next, unlatch and fold down the handlebar stem. Third, fold the foot pedals. When it’s folded, the EP2-Pro measures 39 inches long, 30 inches high, and 22 inches wide.
If you’re going to store the e-bike in a closet or under a counter or desk, you can roll it to position using the tires by holding the front of the folded bike off the floor. If you’re going to lift it into a vehicle or carry it upstairs, consider ahead of time that the Engwe weighs 68 pounds.
More for less The Engwe EP2-Pro is an excellent value for a versatile e-bike suitable for most types of riding. Because it folds, the EP2-Pro is much less hassle to transport or store than non-folding e-bikes. There are two other folding e-bikes to consider, but they both cost significantly more than the Engwe EP2-Pro. The Rad Power Bikes RadExpand 5 fat tire folding bike has a convenient step-through frame, but it is rated for riders five feet and 10 inches tall or less, is limited to 20 mph, and costs $1,650. Aventon’s Sinch.2 is another step-through folding fat tire e-bike has torque-sensing pedal assist, but it also has a 20 mph speed limit and costs $1,800.
If you want a sturdy, easy-to-operate, and relatively comfortable e-bike that you can ride on all surfaces that’s also easy to transport without a truck, trailer, or hitch-mount carrier, the Engwe EP-2 Pro is a smart buy.
Editors' Recommendations Harley-Davidson rides into the e-bike segment with Serial 1 subbrand Rad Power Bikes’ new e-bike models boost accessibility and visibility Shimano’s trail-ripping eMTB tech will make you ditch analog bikes altogether e-Bikes eBike Reviews Product Reviews Outdoors EcoFlow, a manufacturer of portable energy solutions, has announced the launch of the Delta 2 Max -- an eco-friendly solar generator that could replace your current gas generator. The device clocks in at 2,048 watts and should deliver enough power to keep your home running for two days as an emergency backup (or many more if you’re using it as an off-grid power source).
The original Delta Max was a popular item for outdoor adventures, as it could connect to the existing lineup of portable EcoFlow solar panels to juice up gadgets while out in the backcountry. That legacy continues with the Delta 2 Max, which features an upgraded lithium iron phosphate (LFP) battery for a longer life cycle and faster charging.
Outdoors Warm weather is here, and so is grilling season. Now is as good a time as any to set out in search of one of the best outdoor grills, and it’s never a bad time to keep an eye out for a discount on one as well. Whether you’re a grilling beginner ready for some burgers with the family or a seasoned pro looking to host summer gatherings around one of the best smart grills and smokers, we’ve tracked down all of the details you need to land a deal on a grill that’s right for your needs. Read onward for more details.
Everdure CUBE charcoal grill — $150, was $199 The Everdure CUBE charcoal grill is a unique little grill that can truly go almost anywhere with you. It’s lightweight and only 17-inches long, yet still can handle almost any grilling challenge a griller on the go could hope to throw at it. It has a built-in heat protection shield and chrome handles that remain cool while cooking, and the removable charcoal tray offers easy cleanup when you’re finished at the campground or on the beach. Wherever you intend to do some grilling this summer, the Everdure CUBE charcoal grill is a great option as a copilot.
Outdoors The best electric bikes have come a long way in recent years and we don't just mean in terms of the miles you travel. With technology changing quickly, there are also an increasing number of electric bike deals around and we've picked out some of the very best. Electric bikes are a great way of getting around more easily and without necessarily needing to use as much stamina as a regular bike. Below, you'll find fantastic e-bike bike deals from many different retailers. There'll be something for every need here. Let's take a look at them.
Jasion EB5 Electric Bike -- $430, was $750 With a 350w brushless motor, the Jasion EB5 Electric Bike can achieve a top speed of 20 MPH with a range of up to 25-40 miles per charge. It has four working modes with a PAS mode where the motor assists with a moderate amount of power as you pedal, along with a Pure Electric Mode, a Pedal Mode, and a Booster Mode where the bike assist on hills and anywhere else you might be struggling. 26-inch puncture-resistant tires provide excellent durability while there's a high-strength front fork suspension, Shimano 7-speed gears, dual lights, and an LCD display. The latter offers controls for adjustable backlight brightness with one of five levels, along with mode controls.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
