Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Upcoming Nintendo Switch Games Connect Nintendo Switch to TV Free Nintendo Switch Games Cancel Nintendo Switch Online Best Nintendo Switch Games Charge Nintendo Switch Controller Nintendo Switch Accessories Nintendo Switch Controllers Nintendo Switch vs Switch Lite Home Gaming Guides All upcoming Switch games: 2023, 2024, and beyond By Sam Hill Close The Nintendo Switch is one of the most popular consoles Nintendo has ever produced, with a wide variety of games to choose from and plenty of unique features. We’ve already gotten to play new entries across the Zelda , Super Mario , and Pokémon series on Nintendo Switch, but there are still plenty of great games on the way for the hybrid console. These include exclusive games developed internally by Nintendo, as well as third-party titles and ports of games that are also available on other platforms.
Upcoming Switch games 2023 Upcoming Switch games 2024 Switch games with no release window Here’s our list of the best upcoming Nintendo Switch games for 2023 and beyond. Of course, some titles without release windows could skip the Switch entirely and wind up on Nintendo’s next-gen console.
Upcoming Switch games 2023 The games listed below either have 100% confirmed release dates or solid release windows that we expect them to hit this year. Anything that’s up in the air due to more vague launch predictions or previous delays will be listed below confirmed launches.
The best Switch controllers for 2023 Indie World Showcase November 2023: How to watch and what to expect The best PS5 games for 2023 Star Ocean: The Second Story R - November 2, 2023 PC (Microsoft Windows), PlayStation 4, Nintendo Switch, PlayStation 5 Role-playing (RPG) Square Enix, Gemdrops Square Enix November 02, 2023 Read less WarioWare: Move It! - November 3, 2023 Nintendo Switch Arcade Nintendo November 03, 2023 Read less Nickelodeon All-Star Brawl 2 - November 3, 2023 PC (Microsoft Windows), PlayStation 4, Xbox One, Nintendo Switch, PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X|S Fighting, Platform Ludosity GameMill Entertainment November 03, 2023 The wacky cartoon brawler Nickelodeon All-Star Brawl is getting a fresh-feeling sequel à la Warzone 2.
The focus of the game will be to punch, kick, slash, blast, and generally pummel your opponents however you can to knock them off the stage. It’s no Super Smash Bros., but the series has gained a bit of a cult following in the fighting games community.
Read less DreamWorks All-Star Kart Racing - November 3, 2024 PC (Microsoft Windows), PlayStation 4, Xbox One, Nintendo Switch, PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X|S Racing, Arcade Bamtang Games GameMill Entertainment November 03, 2023 Read less Hogwarts Legacy - November 14, 2023 PC (Microsoft Windows), PlayStation 4, Xbox One, Nintendo Switch, PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X|S Role-playing (RPG), Adventure Avalanche Software Portkey Games November 14, 2023 While Hogwarts Legacy launched in February 2023 on most platforms, Switch players will have to wait until November to carve out their own story at Hogwarts. This Harry Potter RPG takes place in the 1800s, where you hold the key to an ancient secret that threatens to tear the wizarding world apart. Go to class, ride a broomstick, and learn all about Unforgivable Curses in this new magical adventure.
Read less Super Crazy Rhythm Castle - November 14, 2023 PC (Microsoft Windows), PlayStation 4, Xbox One, Nintendo Switch, PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X|S Music, Puzzle, Adventure, Indie November 14, 2023 Read less Turok 3: Shadow of Oblivion Remastered - November 14, 2023 PC (Microsoft Windows), PlayStation 4, Xbox One, Nintendo Switch, PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X|S Shooter, Adventure Nightdive Studios Nightdive Studios November 14, 2023 Read less Super Mario RPG - November 17, 2023 Nintendo Switch Role-playing (RPG) Nintendo November 17, 2023 Read less Persona 5 Tactica - November 17, 2023 PC (Microsoft Windows), PlayStation 4, Xbox One, Nintendo Switch, PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X|S Role-playing (RPG), Simulator, Strategy, Tactical Atlus Atlus, Sega, SEGA of America November 17, 2023 Persona 5 Tactica takes the beloved world of P ersona 5 and transforms it into an enthralling tactical spin-off. The enigmatic Phantom Thieves stumble upon a strange incident that leads them to a bizarre land, ruled by the iron grip of the Legionnaires military group. Plunged into peril, their salvation comes in the form of Erina, a mysterious revolutionary who offers them a life-changing deal in return for their aid.
Prepare for turn-based battles as you lead a squad of heroes against the oppressive forces that threaten this realm. Assemble your three-hero team, each possessing unique abilities, and strategize your way to victory.
Read less Bluey: The Videogame - November 17, 2023 PC (Microsoft Windows), PlayStation 4, Xbox One, Nintendo Switch, PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X|S Adventure Artax Games Outright Games November 17, 2023 Everyone’s favorite Australian Cattle Dog is finally making her way into the video game world. With local multiplayer, characters and locations from the TV show, and a light-hearted story, this is a must-play for Bluey fans and their families.
Read less Dragon Quest Monsters: The Dark Prince - December 1, 2023 Nintendo Switch Role-playing (RPG), Adventure Square Enix, Tose Square Enix December 01, 2023 Embark on an extraordinary journey in the captivating realm of Dragon Quest Monsters: The Dark Prince , as you delve into a tale of vengeance. Psaro, plagued by a curse that renders him powerless against creatures with monster blood, is compelled to adopt the role of a Monster Wrangler. His objective: to assemble a formidable army for an impending conflict.
Read less Batman: Arkham Trilogy - December 1, 2023 Nintendo Switch Hack and slash/Beat 'em up, Adventure WB Games December 01, 2023 Read less Upcoming Switch games 2024 As we get deeper into 2023, we’re going to start getting confirmed release dates and rumors for next year. Here’s everything that’s on our radar for 2024.
Prince of Persia: The Lost Crown - January 18, 2024 PC (Microsoft Windows), PlayStation 4, Xbox One, Nintendo Switch, PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X|S Adventure Ubisoft Montpellier Ubisoft Entertainment January 18, 2024 Prepare to embark on an epic adventure in Prince of Persia: The Lost Crown , a thrilling return to the series’ 2D roots in a captivating Metroidvania-style action-platformer. Experience the fast-paced, real-time combat the franchise is renowned for as you step into the shoes of a sword-wielding protagonist and delve into Ubisoft’s rich Persian setting.
Prince of Persia: The Lost Crown introduces an exceptional combat system that surpasses expectations, offering a level of depth that will leave players pleasantly surprised. As you navigate the intricate world, be prepared to discover hidden passages and secret areas that can only be accessed by unlocking specific power-ups.
Read less Apollo Justice: Ace Attorney Trilogy - January 25, 2024 PC (Microsoft Windows), PlayStation 4, Xbox One, Nintendo Switch Simulator, Adventure, Visual Novel March 31, 2024 Read less Mario vs. Donkey Kong - February 16, 2024 Nintendo Switch Platform, Puzzle Nintendo February 16, 2024 Read less Star Wars: Dark Forces Remaster - February 29, 2024 PC (Microsoft Windows), PlayStation 4, Xbox One, Nintendo Switch, PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X|S Shooter Nightdive Studios Lucas Arts February 29, 2024 Star Wars: Dark Forces (first released in 1995) is getting a remaster on modern consoles. In a galaxy under the Empire’s grip, the Rebel Alliance discovers the Death Star, a planet-destroying weapon. Kyle Katarn, a former Imperial Stormtrooper, joins the Rebels to infiltrate the Empire from within.
Star Wars: Dark Forces offers a unique twist with a coherent narrative, realistic missions, and familiar locations from the Star Wars universe.
Read less Princess Peach: Showtime! - March 22, 2024 Nintendo Switch Adventure Nintendo March 22, 2024 Princess Peach: Showtime! focuses on Peach and several Toads visiting a Sparkle Theater to watch a play, only for mysterious foes called the Wicked Grape and Sour Bunch to appear. Peach, alongside a new flower companion named Stella, is left to fight back and save the day (and the play) using a magical ribbon.
Read less Rift of the Necrodancer - Q2 2024 PC (Microsoft Windows), Nintendo Switch Music, Role-playing (RPG), Indie Brace Yourself Games Brace Yourself Games June 30, 2024 Read less The Plucky Squire - TBD 2024 PC (Microsoft Windows), Nintendo Switch, PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X|S Platform, Adventure All Possible Futures Devolver Digital December 31, 2024 Embark on a magical journey with The Plucky Squire , an enchanting Zelda -like adventure that unfolds beyond the confines of a storybook. Join Jot, a brave squire, and his friends as they discover a three-dimensional world outside the pages of their book, only to encounter the sinister Humgrump, who seeks to rewrite their destiny. Jot must overcome unprecedented challenges to rescue his friends from the clutches of Humgrump’s dark forces and restore the book’s once-happy ending. Prepare for an immersive adventure where courage and friendship prevail against all odds.
Read less Hollow Knight: Silksong — TBD Linux, PC (Microsoft Windows), Mac, Nintendo Switch Platform, Adventure, Indie Team Cherry Team Cherry Read less Switch games with no release window All we know about the games listed below is that they’re in development. Most of them are probably a few years away from launch.
Project Bloom - 2026 Adventure Game Freak Private Division Read less Metroid Prime 4 - TBA Nintendo Switch Shooter Retro Studios, Nintendo Nintendo Since we’re on the topic of games we know nothing about, word of Metroid Prime 4 got out several years ago at an E3 Nintendo Direct presentation, but we haven’t heard anything from Nintendo since. Supposedly, the game was still in the developing process at Bandai Namco. Still, the game was not advancing as quickly as Nintendo expected, and it was thus scrapped and restarted with Metroid Prime trilogy creator Retro Studios taking the wheel. We don’t know if the game will launch in the next few years, but we do know one thing: Metroid fans are great at waiting. Otherwise, they may get stuck with another game like Other M , and no one wants that.
Read less The Lord of the Rings: Gollum - Q4 2023 PC (Microsoft Windows), PlayStation 4, Xbox One, Nintendo Switch, PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X|S Adventure Daedalic Entertainment Nacon, Daedalic Entertainment May 25, 2023 Read less Editors' Recommendations The best Mario games of all time, ranked One of the best sci-fi games ever made is coming to Nintendo Switch next month Nintendo introduces a new Super Smash Bros. Switch OLED for Black Friday The best Switch games for 2023 All upcoming PC games: 2023, 2024, and beyond Nintendo Nintendo Switch Gaming The Xbox Series X and Series S have now been out for three years, bringing better resolution, higher frame rates, and ray tracing to gamers around the world. And the upcoming Xbox Series X games on this list promise to continue to show off all those bells and whistles in fun, new experiences.
If you're eager to find out what Microsoft has in store for the years ahead, we've rounded up every game confirmed so far, including new offerings, franchise installments, and ports of existing titles. We're looking beyond the first-party projects here to encompass all the great games coming to this powerful piece of gaming hardware. Maybe some of them will end up being among the best games on Xbox Series X.
Upcoming Xbox Series X games 2023 The games listed below either have 100% confirmed release dates or solid release windows that we expect them to hit this year.
Gaming The PlayStation 5 has been out for some time now, and its reception has been mostly positive. It includes lots of quality-of-life improvements over its predecessor, the PlayStation 4, such as faster load times, a solid-state drive (SSD) instead of a regular hard disk drive (HDD), and an improved controller in the form of the new DualSense. However, a console is only as good as the games available on it, and thankfully, the PS5 has you covered on that front as well.
While the machine already has a worthy library of great PS5 games, there are even more to look forward to, with some releasing as soon as this month, while others are still years away. In the video game world, it's not uncommon to be aware of games that are still several years out from release. It's also normal for a new game to be revealed and launched within just a couple of months. In this comprehensive list, we'll go through the major PS5 releases scheduled for 2023 and speculate on future games.
Gaming Hogwarts Legacy is the latest and greatest adventure in the magical Harry Potter universe. Set in the 1800s, the story focuses on a generic fifth-year student who’s tasked with taking down a brewing Goblin rebellion in-between their school duties. For Potterheads of all ages, a game that allows them to traverse the halls of Hogwarts, learn their favorite spells from the books and films, and fight enemies like dark wizards, trolls, and dragons is an absolute dream.
The game launched on PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X, and PC in February. While reviews were mixed across the board, longtime fans jumped into the wizarding world in droves — over 15 million copies of the game have been sold to date. Unfortunately, players on the top-tier consoles were the only ones who had access to the game for a while. Instead of launching on all platforms simultaneously, Hogwarts Legacy's release has been staggered.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
