Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Outdoors Reviews Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Engwe X24 review: Fat tires, fat value By Bruce Brown Close $1,900.00 Lunar-lander styling Smooth ride Dual batteries increase riding range Heavy frame inspires confidence Plenty of speed and torque Easy-to-read AMOLED display Too heavy to carry Incomplete owner's manual Rear seat, but no foot pegs No fenders Bruce Brown/Digital Trends You may not be familiar with the Engwe e-bike brand, but you’d probably do a double take if you saw the new Engwe X24 rolling down the street. The all-terrain fat tire bike combines style, function, and fun at a price that seems too good to be true.
Lessons learned from the past Size and portability Softening your ride Life in the (tall) driver’s seat A hearty recommendation It’s the middle child of three new X-series fat tire e-bikes that Engwe introduced simultaneously this summer as its flagship line of go-anywhere e-bikes. With model numbers denoting wheel size, the new X20, X24 and X26 e-bikes embody significant improvements over the original X26.
The Engwe X24 isn’t a speed demon like the Ariel Rider Grizzly , or a featherweight commuter like the Gocycle GX , but when the road gets rough, the X24 finds its niche. I found the X24 to be a confidence-inspiring, versatile, and powerful e-bike that was equally competent riding in dirt and on varied off-road surfaces and paved streets. You could even use the X24 as an e-bike for commuting , as long as you don’t need to lug it upstairs or on elevators.
You’ll feel road cracks and rocks, but the X24’s jolt-softeners will let you ride longer without feeling beat up.
The X24’s major checklist items include dual batteries, a triple-suspension system, hydraulic disc brakes, dual brake lights, a 31-mph top speed, and a 54- to 149-mile range, depending on riding mode and speed. That’s an appealing combination, especially at the $1,900 list price.
If you owned multiple e-bikes, the X24 could be the one you’d ride when your plans weren’t solid and you were open to whatever turned up.
Lessons learned from the past Besides the new sizes, how does the new X series differ from the original X26? Most notably, you get more torque, an adjustable front suspension, and an easier way to use two batteries.
The rear hub drive electric motor from the original bike still puts out 1,200 watts peak power and 1,000 watts continuous, but now outputs up to 70 Newton-meters (Nm) of torque, up from from 60 Nm on the original X26. That means the newer e-bikes pull stronger, especially uphill. The front forks are also adjustable now, allowing you to set compression and preload damping.
In order to use both batteries with the earlier design, you had to switch a power cable from the main battery to the smaller backup battery. Now, both batteries connect to an integrated mixer. When the primary battery is depleted, just turn off the e-bike’s display panel briefly and then turn it back on to use the power in the second battery. You can charge either battery on or off the bike, but only one battery charger comes standard with the bike.
Size and portability The X26 and X24 fold in the middle of the bike frame to reveal the second battery. The handlebar stems do not fold, which is a common feature on most other folding bikes. And good luck carrying this 90-pound behemoth anywhere after you fold it. Even if you can pull it off, it’s hard to believe anyone would voluntarily do it often.
The $1,700 Engwe X20, the smallest model in Engwe’s new X Series line, is a more traditional folding bike, similar to the Engwe EP-2 Pro folding e-bike I recently reviewed. The X20 motor has lower power and torque output and less powerful dual batteries than the X24 and X26.
None of the X Series are small e-bikes. The X24 has a 36-inch minimum seat height, and Engwe recommends it for riders measuring at least 5-feet 2-inches tall, while the X26 is for riders at least 5-feet and 7-inches tall. Because I’m 5-feet 8-inches tall when I inhale, I opted for the somewhat smaller, but still large X24.
There may be something wrong with the way Engwe measures rider height. In order to comfortably reach the X24’s pedals, I had to set the seat post below the minimum recommended height, and even then the top of the seat was 36 inches from the ground. I was extremely comfortable pedaling and riding with that adjustment, but was aware that I had adjusted the seat height out-of-spec.
Softening your ride Bruce Brown/Digital Trends The X24’s lunar-lander style isn’t just for looks — it also accommodates a triple-suspension design: front shocks with adjustable preload and damping, a pair of air shocks over the rear axle, and a small mechanical shock in the middle.
But looks can deceive. The middle and rear shocks don’t have much travel, actually, and the front forks compress only three inches. You’re not going to use this two-wheeler for aggressive jumps, trail riding, or downhill rides. But for moderate off-road riding or any type of street riding, the X24’s triple-touch suspension componentry does a fine job smoothing the bumps.
Four-inch wide tires not only help grab uneven terrain, but their sidewall flex helps soften the ride significantly. They’ll handle up to 20 pounds per square inch (psi) of pressure, but I found that 18 psi was the sweet spot for some extra flex without compromising performance or stability. Also, the standard plush seat measures 3 inches at its thickest and sits on a metal frame, adding a bit more give when you hit a curb or pothole.
You’ll still feel irregularities, cracks, and rocks in the road, but the X24 lets you ride longer without feeling beat up.
Life in the (tall) driver’s seat The X24’s hefty frame and multipart suspension quickly gave me confidence in its stability. I hit loose sand and broken pavement at speed unexpectedly more than once, and the bike’s fat tires didn’t spin or get squirrely. I also ran an unplanned braking test when a young deer darted in front of me across a private road. I was only going about 10 or 12 mph at the time, but the powerful hydraulic disc brakes still halted all 90 pounds of bike quickly and easily.
Engwe lists the top speed as 31 mph. I did see that speed once on the excellent AMOLED display, but more often I saw 25 to 28 mph with full throttle on pavement.
The X24’s 70 Nm torque doesn’t cause the tires to bite the road as we’ve experienced with e-bikes built with speed as the top priority. Our house has a long, steep driveway, and the X24 conquered it without issue, with power bleeding off just a little bit from a moving start at the bottom.
I do have a few gripes about the X24. The assembly instructions use rough graphics of bike parts where high-resolution photos would be more helpful. And the manual isn’t complete. For example, the generic battery charging section could have been for any e-bike. Engwe’s website does offer helpful videos, but they still don’t cover all systems.
There are no fenders for the X24, either standard or as listed accessory options on the Engwe website. If you intend to use an X24 for commuting or as an urban bike, fenders will be important.
Also, the X24 has a passenger seat but no foot pegs. The seat felt comfortable enough, but without foot pegs, you won’t make it far. A small rear rack without the seat upholstery would likely be more useful to most owners.
A hearty recommendation The Engwe X24 is an extremely pleasant bike to ride, even though its overall size, weight, and seat height may require some getting used to. There are many admirable all-terrain fat tire bikes available, such as the Rad Power Bikes RadRover.
 The Engwe x24 has a price advantage over most of the e-bikes in this category, however, thanks to its dual batteries, powerful motor, multipart suspension, hydraulic disc brakes, and overall confident, competent, and comfortable ride. I recommend the X24 heartily for anyone looking for a fast, fun, go-anywhere e-ride.
Editors' Recommendations Propella 3.0 ebike review: Cheap thrills e-Bikes eBike Reviews Product Reviews Outdoors EcoFlow, a manufacturer of portable energy solutions, has announced the launch of the Delta 2 Max -- an eco-friendly solar generator that could replace your current gas generator. The device clocks in at 2,048 watts and should deliver enough power to keep your home running for two days as an emergency backup (or many more if you’re using it as an off-grid power source).
The original Delta Max was a popular item for outdoor adventures, as it could connect to the existing lineup of portable EcoFlow solar panels to juice up gadgets while out in the backcountry. That legacy continues with the Delta 2 Max, which features an upgraded lithium iron phosphate (LFP) battery for a longer life cycle and faster charging.
Outdoors Warm weather is here, and so is grilling season. Now is as good a time as any to set out in search of one of the best outdoor grills, and it’s never a bad time to keep an eye out for a discount on one as well. Whether you’re a grilling beginner ready for some burgers with the family or a seasoned pro looking to host summer gatherings around one of the best smart grills and smokers, we’ve tracked down all of the details you need to land a deal on a grill that’s right for your needs. Read onward for more details.
Everdure CUBE charcoal grill — $150, was $199 The Everdure CUBE charcoal grill is a unique little grill that can truly go almost anywhere with you. It’s lightweight and only 17-inches long, yet still can handle almost any grilling challenge a griller on the go could hope to throw at it. It has a built-in heat protection shield and chrome handles that remain cool while cooking, and the removable charcoal tray offers easy cleanup when you’re finished at the campground or on the beach. Wherever you intend to do some grilling this summer, the Everdure CUBE charcoal grill is a great option as a copilot.
Outdoors The best electric bikes have come a long way in recent years and we don't just mean in terms of the miles you travel. With technology changing quickly, there are also an increasing number of electric bike deals around and we've picked out some of the very best. Electric bikes are a great way of getting around more easily and without necessarily needing to use as much stamina as a regular bike. Below, you'll find fantastic e-bike bike deals from many different retailers. There'll be something for every need here. Let's take a look at them.
Jasion EB5 Electric Bike -- $430, was $750 With a 350w brushless motor, the Jasion EB5 Electric Bike can achieve a top speed of 20 MPH with a range of up to 25-40 miles per charge. It has four working modes with a PAS mode where the motor assists with a moderate amount of power as you pedal, along with a Pure Electric Mode, a Pedal Mode, and a Booster Mode where the bike assist on hills and anywhere else you might be struggling. 26-inch puncture-resistant tires provide excellent durability while there's a high-strength front fork suspension, Shimano 7-speed gears, dual lights, and an LCD display. The latter offers controls for adjustable backlight brightness with one of five levels, along with mode controls.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
