Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Outdoors Reviews Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? With an e-bike that folds this small, your ride can go wherever you do By Bruce Brown Close $3,500.00 Lightweight portability Folds compactly to save space Extraordinary build quality for strength and durability Elegant, functional design App-based performance features High price Speed limited to 20 mph maximum Bruce Brown/Digital Trends / Digital Trends For packed city streets with limited parking, an e-bike can be the ultimate transportation option. But where do you put it when you’ve reached your destination? Theft and vandalism can make locking a bike up unappealing, but storing it inside means gobbling up valuable square footage. Folding e-bikes solve this problem by conveniently packing down, and GoCycle is one of the oldest names in the space.
A performance pedigree Know when to fold and when to walk away Going and stopping You don’t have to live in a city The ultimate city ride When I reviewed the GoCycle GX folding e-bike in 2019, we praised it for many of the same features we admire in the updated G4. More recently, we tagged the latest generation GoCycle G4 as the best folding e-bike overall of the best electric bikes for 2023.
 The G4 is an especially sound choice if you live in a city.
Gocycle’s new GXi electric bike can fold away in a mere 10 seconds A performance pedigree Bruce Brown/Digital Trends The rapidly expanding e-bike market is drawing plenty of lookalikes in popular categories, including folding e-bikes. You won’t see other brands that resemble the GoCycle G4, primarily due to the GoCycle’s origin. Karbon Kinetics Ltd., the company that manufactures GoCycle folding e-bikes, was founded in 2002 by Richard Thorpe, a former design engineer with McLaren Automotive. McLaren manufactures supercars and builds Formula One race cars, both types of vehicles with strong, lightweight materials and a focus on performance.
When Thorp’s company launched its first folding e-bike in 2009, the GoCycle G1 won praise for its design and functional performance. The G4, officially called Generation Four, is the seventh iteration of the original design. The GoCycle’s physical appearance has not changed in 14 years. The improvements in the subsequent folding e-bike generations have included Bluetooth connectivity, ease and speed of folding and unfolding, daytime running lights (DRL), and enhanced app security and personalization features.
Know when to fold and when to walk away Bruce Brown/Digital Trends Not all folding e-bikes save space. The 90-pound Engwe X24 is an admirable on- and off-road powerhouse, and it technically folds up, but no way would most buyers even be able to lug it up a full flight of stairs, especially when folded. Even more typical folding e-bikes such as the Rad Power Bikes Rad Mini and the Engwe EP-2 Pro weigh in at 67 pounds and 68 pounds, respectively. Fortunately, the GoCycle G4 weighs just 38 pounds as tested.
GoCycle claims that folding it takes under 10 seconds, and with just a bit of practice, we were able to match or beat that time. You release two latches: one on the right side of the frame, and the second latch at the base of the handlebar stem. After you unfold the frame latch, you can actually pull the front around and it will glide on the front wheel. Next, unlatch and fold down the handlebar stem.
The GoCycle G4 is a beautifully designed machine that draws positive comments wherever it takes you.
When folded, a sturdy rubber loop holds the e-bike’s sections together, lending confidence that the bike will stay folded when you carry or roll it.
Yes, roll it. One of the GoCycle G4’s most convenient features is its ability to roll when folded. After you fold the bike and attach the rubber loop, you can roll it on both wheels like a golf bag cart, using the seat as a handle. Leaving the center stand extended even lets you store it upright without leaning it on anything. Adjusting the seat height to its lowest position and folding the pedals crunches the GoCycle down to just 34.6 inches long, 15.30 inches wide, and 24.2 inches high.
Going and stopping So, the GoCycle G4’s design, dimensions, weight, and folding mechanism are top-flight, but how about riding it? The G4 uses a 36-volt, 8.1Ah battery to power its 250-watt continuous-use, 500-watt peak electric front hub motor. You can cycle through three gears using a shift on the right grip, and the e-bike’s chain drive and Shimano gears are totally enclosed to minimize maintenance.
You start the G4 by pressing a power button on the lower left side of the frame, but there’s no screen to power on. Instead, it offers rubber loops to mount your phone on the handlebars and uses the GoCycle app to monitor speed, battery level, distance travel, and more. If you’re just taking a short ride, or don’t care about these numbers, you can always skip it.
The G4 uses its battery for pedal power assistance, with no throttle option. A torque sensor means that when you push the pedals harder, the system supplies more power assistance. We prefer this setup to cadence sensors, which require you to pedal faster for more power. A tiny boost button near the left handgrip can supply a bit more power for short durations, but only if you’re already pedaling.
The G4’s maximum speed is limited to 20 miles per hour, and the company claims the G4’s range per charge is up to 40 miles depending on pedal input. As usual, rider weight, road surface and incline, air temperature, and many other factors can drastically affect range. If you plan on no more than 10 to 15 miles per charge, you’ll likely never run out of battery power no matter how hard you push it.
If you use the GoCycle G4 as intended, for bopping around town or campus, speed isn’t as important as light weight, convenience, and comfort. I found the GoCycle ideal for short, brisk rides to carry me from point to point. Disc brakes front and rear stop the bike quickly with no drama. Its folding design means you’ll never really need to lock it up since you can take it with you everywhere from coffee shops to classrooms.
You don’t have to live in a city If you don’t live in a city, small town, or on a college campus, there are still plenty of attractive alternate use cases for the GoCycle G4. It may not be the best e-bike for touring, but the G4 is an excellent choice to take on trips when you want a convenient way to get around without moving your vehicle after you reach your destination. With its minimal storage requirements, it’s not much of a challenge to carry the GoCycle G4 in RVs, trucks, or SUVs. You could probably carry two G4s in the trunk of most cars, Miatas and their ilk excluded.
The ultimate city ride You can certainly spend less for a fine folding e-bike than the GoCycle G4’s $3,500 price, but if your budget can handle it, you won’t find a better folding e-bike, especially for use in a city. I enthusiastically recommend the G4 for anyone who needs lightweight, easy-to-store personal transport, in or out of a city. The GoCycle G4 gets the highest marks on function alone, but it doesn’t hurt that it’s also a beautifully designed machine that attracts attention and positive comments wherever you take it.
Editors' Recommendations Harley-Davidson rides into the e-bike segment with Serial 1 subbrand e-Bikes eBike Reviews Product Reviews Outdoors EcoFlow, a manufacturer of portable energy solutions, has announced the launch of the Delta 2 Max -- an eco-friendly solar generator that could replace your current gas generator. The device clocks in at 2,048 watts and should deliver enough power to keep your home running for two days as an emergency backup (or many more if you’re using it as an off-grid power source).
The original Delta Max was a popular item for outdoor adventures, as it could connect to the existing lineup of portable EcoFlow solar panels to juice up gadgets while out in the backcountry. That legacy continues with the Delta 2 Max, which features an upgraded lithium iron phosphate (LFP) battery for a longer life cycle and faster charging.
Outdoors Warm weather is here, and so is grilling season. Now is as good a time as any to set out in search of one of the best outdoor grills, and it’s never a bad time to keep an eye out for a discount on one as well. Whether you’re a grilling beginner ready for some burgers with the family or a seasoned pro looking to host summer gatherings around one of the best smart grills and smokers, we’ve tracked down all of the details you need to land a deal on a grill that’s right for your needs. Read onward for more details.
Everdure CUBE charcoal grill — $150, was $199 The Everdure CUBE charcoal grill is a unique little grill that can truly go almost anywhere with you. It’s lightweight and only 17-inches long, yet still can handle almost any grilling challenge a griller on the go could hope to throw at it. It has a built-in heat protection shield and chrome handles that remain cool while cooking, and the removable charcoal tray offers easy cleanup when you’re finished at the campground or on the beach. Wherever you intend to do some grilling this summer, the Everdure CUBE charcoal grill is a great option as a copilot.
Outdoors The best electric bikes have come a long way in recent years and we don't just mean in terms of the miles you travel. With technology changing quickly, there are also an increasing number of electric bike deals around and we've picked out some of the very best. Electric bikes are a great way of getting around more easily and without necessarily needing to use as much stamina as a regular bike. Below, you'll find fantastic e-bike bike deals from many different retailers. There'll be something for every need here. Let's take a look at them.
Jasion EB5 Electric Bike -- $430, was $750 With a 350w brushless motor, the Jasion EB5 Electric Bike can achieve a top speed of 20 MPH with a range of up to 25-40 miles per charge. It has four working modes with a PAS mode where the motor assists with a moderate amount of power as you pedal, along with a Pure Electric Mode, a Pedal Mode, and a Booster Mode where the bike assist on hills and anywhere else you might be struggling. 26-inch puncture-resistant tires provide excellent durability while there's a high-strength front fork suspension, Shimano 7-speed gears, dual lights, and an LCD display. The latter offers controls for adjustable backlight brightness with one of five levels, along with mode controls.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
