Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Outdoors Deals Save $300 on Growatt’s Latest INFINITY 1300 Portable Power Station, Right Now By Briley Kenney Close Image used with permission by copyright holder This content was produced in partnership with Growatt.
Known for its capable and versatile portable power solutions, Growatt is getting ready to introduce its latest product, the INFINITY 1300 portable power station.
 Like its previous offerings, the INFINITY 1300 is a relatively compact portable power station with solar charging support and a bevy of outlets including AC, DC, and various USB ports. The INFINITY 1300 has a 1,382-watt-hour capacity with an 1800-watt output. So, it’s ready to rock, and you can use it just about anywhere. But the best part is that Growatt is offering an excellent deal on the INFINITY 1300 right out of the gate.
Pre-sale starts on April 17th and runs until April 30th and during that time you can save $300 by pre-ordering. Normally $1,299, it’s yours for just $999 during the pre-sale period. That’s an excellent deal on this new, highly-capable power station that you can use to power your gear during road trips, outdoor appliances and lighting, and much more. You can grab that deal below or keep reading to learn more about the Growatt INFINITY 1300.
Pre-Order Now Why You Should Buy the Growatt INFINITY 1300 Portable Power Station Image used with permission by copyright holder First, let’s talk about Growatt, the company behind the INFINITY 1300, focusing on providing smart energy for a greener future. With a vision to make the world more sustainable, and a major mover in the global PV inverter industry, Growatt delivers a variety of smart energy solutions, like inverters, battery systems, EV chargers, and beyond. Growatt aims is to enable everyone, far and wide to benefit from sustainable energy, and the launch of the INFINITY 3000 is certainly a step in that direction.
Powered by an efficient and reliable LiFePO4 battery, the INFINITY 1300 will last for over 3,000 power cycles, charging in a multitude of ways, including through traditional outlets — charging to full in 1.8 hours — and solar energy. You can connect panels and charge the station entirely via the sun’s rays if you’re outdoors, on the road, or experiencing a major outage. Solar charging takes just 2.5 hours with a 99% MPPT efficiency — a highly-efficient energy conversion rate.
It has 14 outlets total and can power just about everything. Traveling musicians can use it outdoors to power their concerts and venue sessions. The average enjoyer can power appliances, projectors, speakers, and lighting outdoors during a cookout or social gathering. Heck, it’s light enough that you could toss it into your car, van, or truck and bring it with you on the road. You could then use it for camping, while you’re on a road trip, or even at hotels and rest stops.
Thanks to integrated bidirectional inverter technology, the INFINITY 1300 can accept large power inputs without a need for bulky adapters and add-ons. It allows for compatibility with a huge selection of electronics and devices too. For solar, you get a wider input voltage range, and the station is compatible with an array of solar panel brands and models. Smart app controls allow you to check in remotely, configure settings, and interact with the station all via your mobile device.
Beyond just being a versatile and handy power station to power electronics, the INFINITY 1300 supports the UPS or uninterruptible power supply feature to provide reliable backup power. Basically, in an outage or minor power failure — even a power flicker — it will continue powering your essential devices, whether you’re home or not. Your fridge, computer, connected devices like a modem or router, and even medical devices, will all stay powered on through unexpected outages. It’s great for IT equipment, and home medical equipment, but also when you’re working from home and don’t want to lose your work. With the INFINITY 1300 in place, your system will remain on so you can save and find a stopping point or just keep going.
Growatt’s INFINITY 1300 all-in-one power hub and portable power station is available for pre-sale, and at a discount until April 30th. Normally $1,299, it’s yours to pre-order for $999 for a limited time, saving you a whopping $300. You’ll have to act soon though, that deal isn’t going to be available forever.
Pre-Order Now Editors' Recommendations Jackery graduates from pioneer to sustainable master with latest launch The best portable power stations Save big on the new Zendure SuperBase Pro 2000 power station Deals Portable Power Stations Outdoors EcoFlow, a manufacturer of portable energy solutions, has announced the launch of the Delta 2 Max -- an eco-friendly solar generator that could replace your current gas generator. The device clocks in at 2,048 watts and should deliver enough power to keep your home running for two days as an emergency backup (or many more if you’re using it as an off-grid power source).
The original Delta Max was a popular item for outdoor adventures, as it could connect to the existing lineup of portable EcoFlow solar panels to juice up gadgets while out in the backcountry. That legacy continues with the Delta 2 Max, which features an upgraded lithium iron phosphate (LFP) battery for a longer life cycle and faster charging.
Outdoors Warm weather is here, and so is grilling season. Now is as good a time as any to set out in search of one of the best outdoor grills, and it’s never a bad time to keep an eye out for a discount on one as well. Whether you’re a grilling beginner ready for some burgers with the family or a seasoned pro looking to host summer gatherings around one of the best smart grills and smokers, we’ve tracked down all of the details you need to land a deal on a grill that’s right for your needs. Read onward for more details.
Everdure CUBE charcoal grill — $150, was $199 The Everdure CUBE charcoal grill is a unique little grill that can truly go almost anywhere with you. It’s lightweight and only 17-inches long, yet still can handle almost any grilling challenge a griller on the go could hope to throw at it. It has a built-in heat protection shield and chrome handles that remain cool while cooking, and the removable charcoal tray offers easy cleanup when you’re finished at the campground or on the beach. Wherever you intend to do some grilling this summer, the Everdure CUBE charcoal grill is a great option as a copilot.
Outdoors The best electric bikes have come a long way in recent years and we don't just mean in terms of the miles you travel. With technology changing quickly, there are also an increasing number of electric bike deals around and we've picked out some of the very best. Electric bikes are a great way of getting around more easily and without necessarily needing to use as much stamina as a regular bike. Below, you'll find fantastic e-bike bike deals from many different retailers. There'll be something for every need here. Let's take a look at them.
Jasion EB5 Electric Bike -- $430, was $750 With a 350w brushless motor, the Jasion EB5 Electric Bike can achieve a top speed of 20 MPH with a range of up to 25-40 miles per charge. It has four working modes with a PAS mode where the motor assists with a moderate amount of power as you pedal, along with a Pure Electric Mode, a Pedal Mode, and a Booster Mode where the bike assist on hills and anywhere else you might be struggling. 26-inch puncture-resistant tires provide excellent durability while there's a high-strength front fork suspension, Shimano 7-speed gears, dual lights, and an LCD display. The latter offers controls for adjustable backlight brightness with one of five levels, along with mode controls.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
