Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Outdoors Features Serial 1 shows why you’d spend $5,000 on an e-bike — and not feel shortchanged By Andrew Martonik Close We’ve all seen people riding e-bikes.
 And there’s even a good chance you’ve taken one for a spin, if you live in a city with a bikeshare program. Up until last week, that was my only exposure to e-bikes.
 I hadn’t ever been on a serious e-bike, nor had I really considered buying one or understood just how much they cost. Think used car money.
Tearing up city streets A speedy commute Attention to detail I had an opportunity to spend a morning riding two new e-bike models from Serial 1 , a company backed by — and filled with talent from — Harley-Davidson.
 Now, I totally understand why someone would pay upwards of $5,000 for a bicycle.
Andrew Martonik/Digital Trends Tearing up city streets I started out on the most affordable, and simple, model: The MOSH/CTY (henceforth known as the Mosh). It immediately caught my eye with its sleek design and flat black paint. “Mosh” is a perfect name, because the bike is muscular and seems ready to tear up terrain. It has no fenders or fairings, and even its power controller is a simple set of LEDs rather than a screen. It’s about just hopping on and riding — and having blast doing so.
Ripping around the streets at 20 mph — without breaking a sweat — is addicting.
And I did. I immediately ripped around the streets of the Upper East Side and through Central Park, easily sweeping by other bikes in the bike lanes at a top speed of 20 mph. The Mosh really goads you into riding quickly and aggressively, because it only has one gear. And since it’s a pedal-assist bike, you only get power when you’re pedaling — so when you’re up above 15 mph, you really need to pedal aggressively to keep the motor moving and your speed constant.
You have four power modes — eco, tour, sport, and boost — that adjust the power provided relative to your pedaling. Boost is enough to have you beating cars off the line in city traffic without even standing up, but tour is plenty to help you keep up with other bikes or manage hills without much strain. I wouldn’t be surprised if the average Mosh rider stuck to “boost” 100% of the time, though; that power is addicting.
It’s downright fun, and you quickly start to enjoy the quirks of the powertrain. But because of this, the Mosh isn’t so much a commuter bike — it’s more of a $3,400 toy for shorter trips and occasional bouts with the dirt. It can tear up city terrain, but not for long rides — even though the charge range easily reaches 75 miles. The other Serial 1 I rode immediately after the Mosh is the exact opposite, and I loved it even more.
Andrew Martonik/Digital Trends A speedy commute The RUSH/CTY SPEED (We’ll refer to it as Rush Speed going forward) is a general-purpose, errand-running, commuter-focused bike, and it presents itself and rides exactly within those parameters. Narrower tires, full-length fenders, luggage racks, glossy paint, and a handlebar controller with a small screen all point to this bike’s purpose.
But here’s the thing: It has more speed, and more capability, than the Mosh. You get a top speed of 28 mph — the maximum allowed before this bike turns into a moped as far as government regulation is concerned. There’s a 33%-larger 706Wh battery to match. And here’s the tricky bit: There’s a CVT ( continuously variable transmission ) in the rear wheel hub. I loathe CVTs in cars, but the application is perfect here.
I’ll spare you the technical details, but basically, a CVT is a transmission that doesn’t have individual “gears,” yet it can still change an effective gear ratio using adjustable rollers. The Rush Speed’s CVT can provide anything from a 1:1 to 3:1-plus ratio, and it’s controlled electronically by an app on your phone. You set the ideal gearing for the amount of work you want to do and how fast you want to accelerate, and it intelligently adjusts depending on your speed mode and pedal power to keep you at the right gear ratio at all times.
The effect is wonderful. From a stop, you pedal very lightly, and the bike moves gently, but as you pick up a little speed, the motor assistance kicks in and the transmission changes to apply more of that power to the ground. The result is smooth and seamless acceleration, even up to a whopping 28 mph. And because the CVT can max out at a high ratio, you can actually cruise at 20-plus mph without a ton of pedaling, unlike on the Mosh. It also raises the effective power you’re getting out of each of the same four modes you’ll find on the Mosh.
The motor and gearing pair perfectly to provide acceleration and speed.
I was cruising past midday Manhattan car traffic, and beating everything in Central Park by several mph. Fully seated, with little effort, I cruised up the Queensboro Bridge at over 15 mph — and I’m not a small person. Turning around, and putting the 59-pound weight (10 pounds heavier than the Mosh) in motion, I was going 30 mph back down the span. Those are crazy numbers for an e-bike, and I can see exactly how someone could commute a good distance on this bike — all without breaking a sweat.
Depending on how much time you spend in “boost” mode and what your terrain is like, range can vary dramatically, from 25 to 115 miles. Real-world range with some spirited riding is probably going to be about 70 miles, meaning many people could get through a workweek from a charge. The battery is easily removable for charging if you don’t want to lug the whole bike up to an apartment. It goes from 0 to 75% in 3.5 hours and tops out at 100% in another three hours.
Attention to detail No matter which model you choose, you’re getting the benefit of Serial 1’s great design. You can immediately tell these bikes were purpose-built from the ground up to be e-bikes based on the brilliant attention to detail. Unlike most cheap e-bikes, Serial 1s have a custom battery built into the lowest-possible point on the bike, down by the pedal assembly. That keeps the bikes stable at high speeds and in corners, which you notice right away. It’s also somewhat unique that the motor is placed in line with the pedal assembly, rather than out at the wheel hub, which again keeps weight in the right place and dramatically lowers the rotating mass of the wheels.
Now I understand why you’d spend $5,000 on an e-bike.
In addition to a high-quality motor, the bikes use a carbon fiber belt drive, which is quieter, cleaner, and maintenance-free. Every bit of cabling is routed through the frame, so nothing is loose or cluttered. There are sleek LED brake lights integrated into the back of the frame, and a powerful LED headlight on the front. (Plus, the Serial 1 badge at the top of the fork illuminates.) Absolutely nothing about the bikes shout “Harley-Davidson,” but you can tell that the folks at Serial 1 have the same mobility heritage and meticulous focus.
Serial 1 says that an overwhelming majority of its pre-orders have been for the top-spec Rush Speed model, which makes complete sense after riding it. The Mosh doesn’t necessarily have as much appeal, despite being cheaper, and the Rush Speed is just $500 more than the base Rush. You want that power and larger battery. The only reason to get a base Rush is to get the “step-through” model , which is easier to hop on and off of.
Andrew Martonik/Digital Trends It’s not feasible for many people to even consider spending $3,400 on an e-bike, let alone $5,000. But for anyone who’s leaning toward having an e-bike as a primary means of transportation around a city, it’s worth looking at the considerable benefits of choosing one that’s built from the ground up to provide the best e-bike experience. Once you start comparing, looking at specs and features, you’ll find the Serial 1 is actually competitive. Sure, it’s the price of a used car, but that doesn’t mean it’s overpriced.
Editors' Recommendations Harley-Davidson rides into the e-bike segment with Serial 1 subbrand e-Bikes Features Outdoors EcoFlow, a manufacturer of portable energy solutions, has announced the launch of the Delta 2 Max -- an eco-friendly solar generator that could replace your current gas generator. The device clocks in at 2,048 watts and should deliver enough power to keep your home running for two days as an emergency backup (or many more if you’re using it as an off-grid power source).
The original Delta Max was a popular item for outdoor adventures, as it could connect to the existing lineup of portable EcoFlow solar panels to juice up gadgets while out in the backcountry. That legacy continues with the Delta 2 Max, which features an upgraded lithium iron phosphate (LFP) battery for a longer life cycle and faster charging.
Outdoors Warm weather is here, and so is grilling season. Now is as good a time as any to set out in search of one of the best outdoor grills, and it’s never a bad time to keep an eye out for a discount on one as well. Whether you’re a grilling beginner ready for some burgers with the family or a seasoned pro looking to host summer gatherings around one of the best smart grills and smokers, we’ve tracked down all of the details you need to land a deal on a grill that’s right for your needs. Read onward for more details.
Everdure CUBE charcoal grill — $150, was $199 The Everdure CUBE charcoal grill is a unique little grill that can truly go almost anywhere with you. It’s lightweight and only 17-inches long, yet still can handle almost any grilling challenge a griller on the go could hope to throw at it. It has a built-in heat protection shield and chrome handles that remain cool while cooking, and the removable charcoal tray offers easy cleanup when you’re finished at the campground or on the beach. Wherever you intend to do some grilling this summer, the Everdure CUBE charcoal grill is a great option as a copilot.
Outdoors The best electric bikes have come a long way in recent years and we don't just mean in terms of the miles you travel. With technology changing quickly, there are also an increasing number of electric bike deals around and we've picked out some of the very best. Electric bikes are a great way of getting around more easily and without necessarily needing to use as much stamina as a regular bike. Below, you'll find fantastic e-bike bike deals from many different retailers. There'll be something for every need here. Let's take a look at them.
Jasion EB5 Electric Bike -- $430, was $750 With a 350w brushless motor, the Jasion EB5 Electric Bike can achieve a top speed of 20 MPH with a range of up to 25-40 miles per charge. It has four working modes with a PAS mode where the motor assists with a moderate amount of power as you pedal, along with a Pure Electric Mode, a Pedal Mode, and a Booster Mode where the bike assist on hills and anywhere else you might be struggling. 26-inch puncture-resistant tires provide excellent durability while there's a high-strength front fork suspension, Shimano 7-speed gears, dual lights, and an LCD display. The latter offers controls for adjustable backlight brightness with one of five levels, along with mode controls.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
