Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Outdoors Deals Heybike Anniversary sale: Score a new e-bike and save big By Lucas Coll Close With gas prices up and warm weather finally rolling in, now’s a great time to invest in an electronic bike if you’ve been thinking about getting one but needed another reason to finally take the plunge. E-bikes combine the traditional bicycle design with modern electrics that let you ride longer distances and give you some extra horsepower when you need it, without sacrificing the fun and enjoyment that you get from a bike ride.
Heybike , one of our favorite e-bike makers, is currently celebrating its anniversary with a two-week sale , providing the perfect opportunity to score a name-brand electronic bike at a discount and score some freebies while you’re at it.
Shop The Sale Image used with permission by copyright holder If you like to cycle or you’re thinking of getting into it, the advantages of an e-bike should be fairly obvious. An electronic bike is essentially just a bicycle with an electric motor attached. This lets you ride the e-bike without using the pedals at all, much like a motor scooter, or you can use the pedals to provide some of your own power to extend the e-bike’s effective range. That electric motor can also give you a boost when you need it, such as when you’re pedaling up a hill. And unlike a motor scooter, if the e-bike’s battery runs out of juice, you can still use the pedals to get around just as you would with any normal bicycle.
Heybike’s range of e-bicycles currently features five models including a new one for 2022, the all-terrain Heybike Explore , now available. Commuters and city-goers will appreciate the classically-inspired design of the Heybike Cityscape Electric Cruiser Bike or the Race Electric Bike Commuter Bike, both of which offer a battery range of up to 40 miles (25 miles on electricity only, 40 if you’re willing to do some pedaling) and a max load of up to 264 pounds. Both also deliver a top speed of 19-20 miles per hour, and when it’s time to recharge, the removable battery pack juices up in as little as five hours. There’s even a USB port for charging your mobile device from the battery while you ride.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Want to hit the trails? The Heybike Mars Folding e-bike , Heybike Ranger Step-Thru, and Heybike Explore Step-Thru e-bikes are built to handle some outdoor fun thanks to their four-inch wide fat tires that deliver extra traction, stability, and comfort in contrast to standard bike tires. The tires on the Heybike ranger and Explore models are all-terrain as well. The Mars Folding e-bike and the Ranger Step-Thru bike both utilize a quiet 500-watt brushless motor that delivers a smooth ride with a maximum range of 48 miles; the new Heybike Explore boasts an even bigger 750-watt brushless motor that’s capable of a 70-mile maximum travel range before needing a recharge. These three models all offer a 330-pound load capacity.
Image used with permission by copyright holder The Heybike Anniversary Sale runs from Thursday, May 5 through Friday, May 22. Shoppers who purchase any of the Heybike e-bike models get a Heybike Anniversary Box, and if you’re buying two ebikes, you can save an extra $50 with the checkout code HAS1.
This is a great opportunity to jump into the world of e-bikes with a bicycle built for the 21st century.
Shop The Sale Editors' Recommendations The best electric bikes for 2023 EV Flash Sale: Save on e-bikes, e-mopeds, and even e-go karts Upway launches one of the best marketplaces for certified e-bikes, new or not This Co-op Cycles e-bike is over $500 off during the REI Labor Day sale Have power anytime, anywhere with the new EcoFlow Power Kits e-Bikes Outdoors This content was produced in partnership with Zendure.
A portable power station is a great thing to have around, whether it's for your home's disaster preparedness kit or for powering up your electronics on vacations and camping trips. Good power stations aren't cheap pieces of equipment, though, and while we feel that they're definitely worth the investment, it's important to get a capable one. It's also easy to underestimate how much wattage you'll actually need, and if you have found that other power stations aren't delivering enough energy to keep up with your lifestyle, then you need to check out the new Zendure SuperBase Pro 2000. Now's a great time to buy it, too, as Digital Trends readers can score a juicy $400 discount right now. Read on to learn more about the new Zendure SuperBase Pro 2000 power station and how you can save.
Deals REI's winter clearance sales are epic, with deals on many types of gear with discounts to 50% and even 60% when you shop at the REI Outlet. For 2020, the REI's slashed prices on select electric bikes and mountain bikes up to 50%.
From REI's wide selection of bikes on sale, we found the best discounts on electric bikes for commuting, adventure riding, and e-mountain bikes from Cannondale and Ghost. We also selected non-electric bikes, including mountain, trail, and fat-tire bikes from Cannondale and Diamond and a Salsa expedition bike. Whether you want to take advantage of REI's winter clearance sale to upgrade to a new bike or if you want to add to your two-wheeled fleet, these seven deals can help you save up to $3,000.
Deals In the Android fitness smartwatch scene, two titans have been duking it out for several years now: Fitbit and Garmin. Both of these companies have long been on the list of our favorite fitness watches, but when it comes to high-end full-featured wearables, Garmin is the name to beat – especially if you prefer classic styling details like round steel cases and metal bands over squared-off rubberized cases.
If you’re in the market for a full-on smartwatch that can do double duty as a highly detailed fitness tracker (and something that’s not just a jumped-up Bluetooth pedometer), then look no further. As part of its ongoing Anniversary Sale ahead of Memorial Day weekend, REI is offering discounts of up to $150 on a few of the best Garmin fitness smartwatches, and we’ve got the best ones right here: Garmin Fenix 5 Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
