Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Outdoors Deals Jackery graduates from pioneer to sustainable master with latest launch By Briley Kenney Close.
This content was produced in partnership with Jackery.
Advanced technology for a better anywhere experience Improved protections and security Jackery is making green energy accessible to everyone Committed to a healthier, safer world In 2012, at a critical time when sustainability efforts were ramping up everywhere, Jackery was born. The prevailing vision behind its creation was to provide accessible green energy to everyone. Years later, in 2016, Jackery launched the world’s first outdoor-friendly portable power stations, and soon after, introduced the world’s first portable solar panels. They would change many lives for the better but also transform an entire market that’s now dedicated to green, sustainable energy solutions. Today, over 11 years later, Jackery is still going strong, and getting ready to launch one of its most advanced products to date, the Jackery Solar Generator 2000 Plus.
Ideal for outdoor applications, portability, and emergency backup usage, the Jackery Solar Generator 2000 Plus delivers some incredible features that honor Jackery’s original mission — “to make green energy accessible anytime and anywhere”. More importantly, it offers safe and reliable power independence for all, thanks to a combined software and hardware defense system, which we’ll explore in more detail below, and industry-leading fast-charge technology to get you working, playing, or back in the game as quickly as possible.
Learn More Advanced technology for a better anywhere experience Image used with permission by copyright holder Impressively, the Jackery Solar Generator 2000 Plus is equipped with advanced IBC technology, allowing it to fully charge in just two hours all via solar power. In that time, it will charge from 0% capacity to 100% when connected to six SolarSaga 200W solar panels. That means, you don’t have to sit around waiting for nearly half a day or longer for the power station to charge, especially if you’re just making a quick pit stop. Instead, it will charge fast and reliably, and you can get right back to what you were doing beforehand, which is perfect for outdoor enthusiasts, who are camping, living off-grid, or taking a road trip.
But since Jackery is all about going above and beyond, and delivering an exceptional experience, the true standout here is everything else that the Jackery Solar Generator 2000 Plus offers with its 3,000-watts large output. For starters, that’s ample power to supply a small family for a day or more, but you can expand that capacity even further, up to 24 kilowatt-hours (12 kilowatt-hours in Europe) by merely adding battery packs — it supports up to five add-on battery packs at a time. Yes, that makes it more capable, but also highly modular and creates a much more portable system ideal for situations where you want lightweight solutions, like on road trips, outdoor camping, home emergencies, and more. You’re not dealing with hefty equipment and you can set it up quickly. Plus, you can expand at any time, to match your needs, or your family’s needs, no matter where you are. Need to plug in a small fridge and worried the solo generator will drain too fast? No problem, connect an add-on battery or several, and you’re good to go.
The Jackery Solar Generator 2000 Plus can sustain even heavy-duty and high-power devices, up to 6,000 watts in the U.S. (3,000 watts in Europe). Regardless of power output, it’s whisper quiet the whole time too, producing only 30 decibels of noise, and while it’s in a unique Quiet Charging Mode — accessible through the Jackery app — you’ll get library-level noise while it’s recharging too. It makes for a remarkably quiet system, charging or not, that won’t disturb you during the late hours of the evening, or early hours of the morning. You’ll sleep like a baby while it charges.
Jackery’s ChargeShield technology is what makes ultra-fast charging possible, but also ensures the Jackery Solar Generator 2000 Plus will continue working even in extreme conditions — it will continue working fine at a high temperature of 45 degrees Celsius. ChargeShield utilizes an exclusive stepped variable-speed charging algorithm to boost the lifespan of the battery pack, by as much as 50%, but also to ensure safe recharging, regardless of speed or temperature. Because of the technology, the power station can be fully charged in about 5.5 hours through conventional means.
Improved protections and security Image used with permission by copyright holder Briefly mentioned above, Jackery’s combined software and hardware security defense system keeps the Jackery Solar Generator 2000 Plus ready to go at all times, regardless of the conditions or concerns. What does that mean, exactly? Four major physical security protection systems provide comprehensive software support regarding security and safety and allow it to self-inspect potential issues. The inverter protection system and the solar charging module protection form the first layer of the physical protection mechanism. Meanwhile, the BMS protection system composes the second layer of physical protection, to ensure reliable and safe operation.
In total, there are 62 varying protections in place all combined to provide some of the most comprehensive protection and safety on the market. The software will conduct protection self-checks each time the Jackery Solar Generator 2000 Plus is started, and during operation, with an estimated average of one security self-check carried out per second, during use.
It knows what’s wrong and has ample protections in place to keep any devices plugged into it safe, and anyone around the battery safe, as well. That is certainly not something you’ll find offered by its lesser-known market competitors.
On top of all of this, Jackery’s add-on battery pack for the Jackery Solar Generator 2000 Plus is the first in the industry that can be charged completely via solar panels. That makes the entire system, and its modular components, much more flexible and adds a degree of convenience and speed that can save you lots of time. You can charge it all via solar, precisely from when and where you need to.
Jackery is making green energy accessible to everyone Image used with permission by copyright holder Let’s jump back to Jackery’s primary mission, and its reason for existing, which is making green energy accessible to all. That is precisely what its products, like the Jackery Solar Generator 2000 Plus, provide. It doesn’t matter whether you need green energy for your home, or as an emergency backup solution, whether you’re living off-grid, or whether you’re using it for activities like camping, off-grid road trips, or just powering some stuff in your backyard during a social get together, Jackery’s portable power stations are the perfect answer.
The Jackery Solar Generator 2000 Plus takes all of that and improves upon it. To use van living as an example, you want something lightweight, maneuverable, and modular. It’s all of that and more. At any time you can add batteries, up to five, to extend the Jackery Solar Generator 2000 Plus’s capacity. Moreover, it’s lightweight and easy to stow, carry, or set up. Finally, it affords a ton of advanced protections, and that’s on top of a long list of intelligent features — like ultra-quiet charging that can be enabled from a mobile app. Vans are small and lots of noise can create distractions, especially if you’re trying to sleep so that quiet operation will be a boon. Above all, you can plug in some solar panels and you have a fully self-sustaining system that can be charged quickly, whenever you need to tap into power. It can handle high-power devices, including small appliances, and its base 24 kilowatt-hours capacity is plenty to last for a full day’s use, or longer in many cases.
Committed to a healthier, safer world Image used with permission by copyright holder While many brands claim to care about creating a healthier and safer world for all, their actions rarely match up with their promises. That’s not the case for Jackery, as they’ve stepped in on many occasions, to make a world of difference. Back in 2020, when the devastating wildfires were spreading all across California, Jackery’s resources and quick thinking helped improve the working lives of firefighters.
Stationed in a remote area, with very limited access to electricity, they were unable to charge their essential equipment, including communication devices. They found their existing power solutions quickly depleting, with no clear solution. This put their lives at great risk, and their operation, which would mean the fires rampantly spreading and potentially harming others.
Understanding the dire situation, Jackery stepped in to help, providing the firefighters with portable power stations — they were specifically designed for use during outdoor and emergencies, so they were up to the task. Equipped with high-capacity batteries and multiple charging ports, the power stations allowed the firefighters to charge their radios, phones, flashlights, and other necessary devices. This kept everyone in constant communication, as needed, and helped them maintain the equipment they needed, even without access to traditional grid-based power.
Not only does this story showcase Jackery’s commitment to a better world, but it also shows how their products can really come in handy in an emergency. It’s always best to be prepared. Whether it’s supporting first responders, like the firefighters in California, or allowing outdoor enthusiasts to stay connected during their adventures, Jackery continues to make a positive impact with its innovative and dependable energy solutions.
Learn More Editors' Recommendations Save $300 on Growatt’s Latest INFINITY 1300 Portable Power Station, Right Now October Prime Day: Save 40% on this portable solar generator Save big on the new Zendure SuperBase Pro 2000 power station Amazon is having a FLASH SALE on solar generators today — hurry! Amazon is having a (surprise) flash sale on solar generators today Portable Power Stations Deals If the past two sultry summers taught us one thing, it’s that we never want to be without power -- for air conditioning, other appliances, and devices -- especially when we need it most. That in itself is a great reason to browse these generator deals. And right now at Amazon, you can score $150 off this Jackery Portable Power Station Explorer 500 Outdoor Solar Generator. It’s down to only $500, and then there’s a coupon to get an extra $50 off its original price of $600. Never be without power again with this amazing deal.
We’ve all been there: Suddenly, the lights and Wi-Fi go out, the TV goes off, and you’re powerless to do anything. Blackouts are a fact of life, but you never need to be without power again with the Portable Power Station Explorer 500 Outdoor Solar Generator from Jackery. It can not only provide important power during blackouts, but it’s incredibly helpful for camping trips and any outdoor activities far from a power source. This is a household essential that you can’t do without, and at this price, there’s no reason not to grab it.
Outdoors This content was produced in partnership with Upway.
It wasn't too long ago that e-bikes were a rare sight, but all of that has changed, and rightfully so. Electric bikes are all over the road these days, and there are many brands either venturing into the technology, to launch their own versions of the sustainable transportation option or reiterating existing and traditional designs. From Aventon to Schwinn, or RadPower to Momentum, with so many opportunities, the prevailing question is, where do you go to find the best deals and the best information about these brands and their e-bike models? The answer is Upway, the number one certified electric bike provider and an official partner to many of the aforementioned brands.
What is Upway, exactly? It's a marketplace, specializing in e-bikes, featuring an inventory that's sourced from some of the best brands in the world. There are American brands -- like Specialized, Cannondale, and RadPower -- and European brands -- like Riese, Muller, and VanMoof. The best part is the discounts, offering up to 60% off retail, for a plethora of brands. Upway is on a mission to make sustainable mobility affordable for everyone. It's also one of the best places to go for a new or pre-owned e-bike, and here's why: Outdoors EcoFlow, a manufacturer of portable energy solutions, has announced the launch of the Delta 2 Max -- an eco-friendly solar generator that could replace your current gas generator. The device clocks in at 2,048 watts and should deliver enough power to keep your home running for two days as an emergency backup (or many more if you’re using it as an off-grid power source).
The original Delta Max was a popular item for outdoor adventures, as it could connect to the existing lineup of portable EcoFlow solar panels to juice up gadgets while out in the backcountry. That legacy continues with the Delta 2 Max, which features an upgraded lithium iron phosphate (LFP) battery for a longer life cycle and faster charging.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
