Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Outdoors Features Turf tech: The surprisingly sophisticated science of the lowest part of the game By Drew Prindle Close Icon Sportswire / Getty The average NFL stadium may as well be a space station. Between all the high-def jumbotrons, the Skycams dangling over the players , and the magical beer dispensers that fill pint glasses from the bottom , there’s enough technology in most pro football stadiums that it’s easy to assume that the playing field itself is the least advanced part of the entire complex.
But as it turns out, nothing could be further from the truth. The grass on NFL football fields is, without question, one of the most painstakingly planned out parts of the entire game.
Think about it: Grass is the ideal playing surface for football. Even with all the newfangled artificial variants and fancypants turf technologies that have sprung up to replace it, nothing matches the properties of real, natural grass. It is hard enough that a ball will bounce reliably and consistently on it, yet is still soft enough that it provides some cushion when you fall. It also provides the necessary traction to allow 300-pound linebackers to shove each other without slipping, yet at the same time, it has just enough “give” that when a running back makes a quick cut to evade a tackle, the grass will tear and divot instead of forcing the player’s joints to bear that strain alone.
“I would rather be on grass all the time,” says New England Patriots linebacker Brandon Copeland.
 “You definitely can feel a difference. Your knees just feel better, your body feels better. Artificial turf takes a toll on your joints. Not to sound like an old man or anything, but you can feel it for the next day or two in your knees and ankles and things like that. I’d much rather be over grass.” Jonathan Daniel / Getty This ideal mix of attributes is no accident. We all take it for granted, but that well-manicured greenery under the players’ cleats is the result of centuries of careful biological tinkering. Even now, turf scientists are still hard at work perfecting it, adapting it, and making it better for football.
Generally speaking, the grass that’s most commonly used in NFL stadiums is bermudagrass. It’s the most popular species for playing fields by a pretty wide margin. But what makes this particular grass variety better for football than, say, bluegrass, zoysia, or any of the other popular turfgrass species that exist? “It’s because bermudagrass is particularly aggressive,” says Aaron Neufelder. As the farm manager of Grassmasters Sod Farm , he’s cultivated grass for more NFL stadiums than just about anyone else on Earth and is basically a walking encyclopedia on the topic of turf.
“Today there are hundreds of different cultivars and hybrids of bermudagrass, each with their own unique set of strengths and adaptations.” “It fills itself in much better and makes for a better playing surface because it has a much better structure than most other grasses,” he explains, “which provides really good footing, stability wise. Biologically speaking, this is because bermudagrass has what are called stolons and rhizomes. Stolons are like creeping, above-ground leaves, and rhizomes are underground stems within the roots. Both of these spread out and send new plants wherever there’s a void, like in a divot or something. They’re constantly repairing themselves and knitting together beneath the surface. So that’s why Bermuda grass gets used a lot for football fields.” But here’s the kicker: There’s not just one kind of bermudagrass. Ever since it arrived in the U.S in the mid-1700s (and probably before then, too) we humans have been fiddling with it and artificially steering its evolution through selective breeding. Today there are hundreds of different cultivars and hybrids of bermudagrass, each with its own unique set of strengths and adaptations.
Robin Alam/Icon Sportswire via Getty Images “Here in Indiana, we select for winter tolerance,” says Neufelder. “So one of the main drawbacks to bermudagrass is the further North you go, if you don’t have a variety that’s been selected for winter tolerance, it could easily die. Like, if you get an icy, windy day where it gets down to minus 10 degrees, that might kill that bermudagrass.” For this reason, stadiums have to choose a grass variety that’s adapted for the specific climate conditions of that area. The grass at Raymond James Stadium in Tampa, for example, is drastically different than the grass they use at Lambeau Field in Green Bay.
The craziest part, though, is that despite the fact that we literally have grasses that are optimized for different stadiums and regions, we’re still not satisfied. Turfgrass scientists are still out there tweaking, testing, and finding ever more ways to breed better grass for us to play on. In fact, there are entire university programs dedicated to doing so.
“The majority of the grasses in our area have been selected out of Oklahoma State University,” says Neufelder. “They have a really good turfgrass genetics and breeding program down there. The three main cultivars that we use are Latitude 36, Northbridge, and Tahoma 31 — and they all three came from that Oklahoma State program. There are some other top-notch breeding programs down South, too.” So next time you find yourself standing on a football field, take a minute to stop and appreciate what you’re stepping on. It might just be the most streamlined, scientific, and sophisticated part of the sport.
Editors' Recommendations How the NFL’s on-player RFID tags are quietly revolutionizing football Better, Faster, Stronger Features Super Bowl Outdoors EcoFlow, a manufacturer of portable energy solutions, has announced the launch of the Delta 2 Max -- an eco-friendly solar generator that could replace your current gas generator. The device clocks in at 2,048 watts and should deliver enough power to keep your home running for two days as an emergency backup (or many more if you’re using it as an off-grid power source).
The original Delta Max was a popular item for outdoor adventures, as it could connect to the existing lineup of portable EcoFlow solar panels to juice up gadgets while out in the backcountry. That legacy continues with the Delta 2 Max, which features an upgraded lithium iron phosphate (LFP) battery for a longer life cycle and faster charging.
Outdoors Warm weather is here, and so is grilling season. Now is as good a time as any to set out in search of one of the best outdoor grills, and it’s never a bad time to keep an eye out for a discount on one as well. Whether you’re a grilling beginner ready for some burgers with the family or a seasoned pro looking to host summer gatherings around one of the best smart grills and smokers, we’ve tracked down all of the details you need to land a deal on a grill that’s right for your needs. Read onward for more details.
Everdure CUBE charcoal grill — $150, was $199 The Everdure CUBE charcoal grill is a unique little grill that can truly go almost anywhere with you. It’s lightweight and only 17-inches long, yet still can handle almost any grilling challenge a griller on the go could hope to throw at it. It has a built-in heat protection shield and chrome handles that remain cool while cooking, and the removable charcoal tray offers easy cleanup when you’re finished at the campground or on the beach. Wherever you intend to do some grilling this summer, the Everdure CUBE charcoal grill is a great option as a copilot.
Outdoors The best electric bikes have come a long way in recent years and we don't just mean in terms of the miles you travel. With technology changing quickly, there are also an increasing number of electric bike deals around and we've picked out some of the very best. Electric bikes are a great way of getting around more easily and without necessarily needing to use as much stamina as a regular bike. Below, you'll find fantastic e-bike bike deals from many different retailers. There'll be something for every need here. Let's take a look at them.
Jasion EB5 Electric Bike -- $430, was $750 With a 350w brushless motor, the Jasion EB5 Electric Bike can achieve a top speed of 20 MPH with a range of up to 25-40 miles per charge. It has four working modes with a PAS mode where the motor assists with a moderate amount of power as you pedal, along with a Pure Electric Mode, a Pedal Mode, and a Booster Mode where the bike assist on hills and anywhere else you might be struggling. 26-inch puncture-resistant tires provide excellent durability while there's a high-strength front fork suspension, Shimano 7-speed gears, dual lights, and an LCD display. The latter offers controls for adjustable backlight brightness with one of five levels, along with mode controls.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
