Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Outdoors Reviews This stunning e-bike is a quiet beauty built to last By Bruce Brown Close $2,000.00 Striking appearance Quiet, smooth carbon belt drive Hydraulic brakes boost stopping power Low maintenance components Higher cost No suspension With a gleaming white finish, stainless steel hardware, and rosy-tan-colored seat, grips, and tires, the Priority Bicycles E-Coast e-bike gets plenty of attention just for its looks. But its appeal doesn’t end there. The upscale components selected for smooth riding, low maintenance, and long life seal the deal on the E-Coast. You will pay a bit more than average for this sparkling e-bike, but if you can swing the cost, you won’t regret it.
On looks alone This belt sets you free Components: The major bits Cruising as it was meant to be How far will good looks take you? A premium ride If you’re looking for a durable, cruiser-style e-bike for daily errands and fun rides, the Priority E-Coast is an excellent choice. You should choose different e-bikes for off-road scrambling or fast e-bike commuting in the gritty city, but based on test riding the E-Coast, I’m convinced you won’t find a better choice for casual rides around town, on well-worn paths, or on hard-packed beach sand.
Harley-Davidson rides into the e-bike segment with Serial 1 subbrand This inflatable, backpack-sized e-bike is the most ridiculous transport idea yet Blix drops e-bike prices in shift to selling exclusively online The E-Coast complements the belt drive with hydraulic disc brakes that clamp on 180mm disc rotors for smooth stops.
On looks alone Priority sells the E-Coast e-bike in two frame styles that the company calls Diamond and Step-Through. The Diamond frame has a conventional high tube and is rated for riders 5-feet-6-inches tall and up, while the Step-Through model accommodates riders down to 5 feet tall. I’m 5-foot-8-inches tall, OK for either style, but I chose subjectively, based primarily on looks.
When the E-Coast arrived, I wasn’t disappointed. Getting the bike ready to ride was relatively quick and easy. After watching a helpful video on the company’s website, it took less than 30 minutes for full assembly. If needed later, it’s easy to adjust the handlebar height and even easier to raise or lower the seat.
This belt sets you free Bruce Brown/Digital Trends Beyond the E-Coast’s appearance, the Gates Carbon Drive belt is the e-bike’s most defining feature. Compared to conventional metal bicycle chains, the benefits of belt drives include quieter operation, no rusting, no lubrication, and a significantly longer useful lifespan. Priority claims the Gates Carbon Drive belt lasts two to three times longer than regular chains.
The E-Coast doesn’t have a multiple-gear cassette with a derailleur and a gear shifter on the handlebar. The e-bike’s single-speed rear hub 500-watt electric motor has five pedal assistance power modes. You select pedal assist modes using plus (+) and minus (-) buttons on a display control pad, located near the left handlebar grip. You can also control the drive speed with a half-twist throttle on the right grip.
Components: The major bits As with any good e-bike, rider satisfaction depends on more than just good looks and an electric motor. The E-Coast complements the Gates Carbon Drive belt with hydraulic disc brakes that clamp on 180mm disc rotors with minimal pressure on the brake levers.
The combination of the E-Coast’s belt drive and hydraulic brakes removes much of the minor drama from riding and stopping e-bikes with metal bike chains, multiple gears, and mechanical disc brakes. Everything happens smoothly.
The E-Coast e-bike doesn’t have a front or rear suspension, but its solid frame, cushy seat, and 26-inch diameter by 3-inch wide street tread tires work together for a surprisingly comfortable ride. You won’t want to jump hills — even small ones — with the E-Coast, and you’ll feel it if you hit a curb or a roadway pothole, but in general, the ride is fine for the bike’s cruising focus.
Cruising as it was meant to be Bruce Brown/Digital Trends Priority ships the E-Coast as a Class 2 e-bike, which limits the top speed to 20 mph, but you can use the display control buttons to unlock 28 mph, if Class 3 e-bikes are legal in your state. I pushed it to that speed just to make sure it would reach it, but I found Class 3 mode more useful to comfortably maintain a speed of about 24 mph as I cruised in town, in my neighborhood, and in nearby parks.
The 576-watt-hour battery that powers the E-Coast tucks under the rear rack. You can unlock the battery to remove it from the frame for security and you can charge the battery off or on the bike with the included charger.
How far will good looks take you? Priority says the E-Coast’s should reach 20 to 60 miles with a full charge, but as usual, those numbers can vary drastically based on everything from terrain to rider weight. If you rely heavily on throttle use only and go as fast as the bike will take you, you’ll end up on the shorter side, while contributing some pedaling and sticking to slower speeds can help take you the furthest.
When you run out of battery power, you can of course still pedal the E-Coast manually. It’s easy enough on flat ground, but I quickly found that pedaling on even moderate grades wasn’t fun. The E-Coast weighs 57 pounds as tested, which is about 10 pounds less than average e-bikes, but you still won’t want to pedal it without power assistance. On the other hand, when riding with battery power, the E-Coast did an excellent job climbing our steep driveway.
A premium ride It’s easy to recommend the Priority Bicycles E-Coast to anyone who wants an eye-catching e-bike that rides quietly and smoothly. The E-Coast’s $2,000 price will give some buyers pause, and you can certainly find excellent budget e-bikes for half the price. But the E-Coast’s good looks, low maintenance requirements, and long-lasting drive components are definitely worth the premium.
Editors' Recommendations The best electric bikes for 2023 The best mountain bikes Bosch Kiox and SmartphoneHub hands-on: The sleek displays e-bikes deserve Rad Power Bikes’ new e-bike models boost accessibility and visibility Electric Citi Bikes is returning to New York City with a price shake-up e-Bikes eBike Reviews Product Reviews Outdoors The past few years have seen the demand for electric bikes grow from a niche market into the hottest trend in cycling. Over that time, we've also seen an overwhelming number of new models hit the market, from both traditional bike manufacturers and completely new companies. As a result, it has become increasingly more difficult for new e-bike models to stand out in the crowded field. Nowadays, if you want to grab the attention of potential customers, you need to offer something that provides good performance and range at an affordable price. That appears to be exactly the approach that a company called Spinciti has taken with its first model, which debuted on Indiegogo today.
Dubbed the Amsterdam, the new bike offers riders several options when it comes to customizability. Not only does it offer two different frame styles —a hybrid cyclocross and a lightweight mountain bike version — but it also comes with three different size motors too. The rear-hub mounted drive system is available in 250W, 350W, and 500W versions, which are good for speeds of 20, 25, and 28 miles per hour respectively. The swappable battery, which blends in nicely into the bike's alloy frame, provides up to 50 miles of range on a single charge as well.
News Vintage Electric announced a limited-edition high-performance e-bike just ahead of the November 15, 2019, theater release of Ford v Ferrari. The film recounts the full-on effort by Carroll Shelby to build a Ford race car to take on Ferrari, the perennial winner of the 24 Hours of Le Mans in France in 1966. The Vintage Electric Shelby is a 36-mph e-bike with paint, finishes, and design details closely fashioned after the auto builder's personal 289 Cobra.
Introducing the Limited Edition Vintage Electric Shelby Bicycle Vintage Electric founder and lead designer Andrew Davidge consulted with Aaron Shelby, the auto legend's grandson, while developing the limited edition. Inspired by the 289 Cobra, the Vintage Electric Shelby has matching blue metallic N6 paint with matte black racing stripes, the Shelby logo, and Cobra badging.
Outdoors Chula Vista, California-based Juiced Bikes announced the Scorpion, a retro moped-style e-bike with a 28 mph top speed and a riding range of 45 to 75 miles. Equipped with front and rear suspension, hydraulic disc brakes, and puncture-resistant 20 x 4-inch fat street tires, the Scorpion is available for pre-order beginning today.
All New SCORPION from Juiced Bikes Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
