Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Outdoors Reviews Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Slow and steady wins the race for Rad Power’s do-it-all RadRunner 3 Plus By Bruce Brown Close $2,300.00 Unsurpassed versatility Comfortable by design Excellent safety features Optional accessory packages Comprehensive user documentation 20 mph max speed Weak pedestrian warning bell Everyone wins when e-bike manufacturers improve popular models with features riders actually use and appreciate. Rad Power Bikes proves the point with the latest version of its highly customizable, RadRunner utility e-bike. The Rad Power Bikes RadRunner 3 Plus balances comfort, safety, and versatility as well or better than any other utility e-bike, with no pretenses of passing for a regular street bicycle or motorcycle.
Versatility for town and country Getting to the bottom of rider comfort Safety matters Speed control as a safety feature But is it fun to ride? Maximum versatility This latest iteration continues to build the original RadRunner’s reputation for wide-ranging utility.
The still-widening e-bike field already includes bikes for commuting , cruisers for casual trips around town, all-terrain models, electric mountain bikes, cargo e-bikes designed to carry extra-large loads, and folding e-bikes to stow under office desks or in the trunk of your car or SUV. There are e-bikes that appear to be conventional road bicycles and downplay their electrification, as well as models with styling and performance that tease the midline between e-bikes and motorcycles.
The RadRunner 3 Plus is an adaptable electric ride that can be great in town and could serve as a short-distance commuting e-bike. If you want an e-bike that excels on tight mountain trails or for high-speed performance on or off-road, this is not your e-bike.
So, what’s so appealing about the RadRunner 3 Plus? Three things: utility, rider comfort, and safety. Rad Power Bikes’ build quality is top shelf and the RadRunner 3 Plus user documentation is unparalleled, but this latest iteration continues to build the original RadRunner’s reputation for wide-ranging utility.
Versatility for town and country The RadRunner 3 Plus wasn’t designed specifically as a work bike on farms, but that idea isn’t farfetched. The e-bike’s 350-pound cargo capacity, including the rider, and multiple attachment points and surfaces will let you haul tools, garden supplies, and animal feed including, with appropriate strapping, bales of hay.
With the moderate all-terrain tread on its 4-inch diameter fat tires, you should be able to travel most farm surfaces except deep snow, mud, or freshly turned soil. You could even transport a helper as a passenger on the standard RadRunner 3 Plus rear rack, although without the optional passenger seat and footpegs, it better be a short ride.
If you don’t live on a farm, Rad Power Bikes makes it easy to customize your RadRunner 3 Plus for your needs. Since the original RadRunner launch in 2019, the manufacturer has offered accessories such as racks, baskets, lights, mirrors, panniers, and even a center console with a cup holder.
Bruce Brown/Digital Trends You can also buy pre-assembled accessory kits for specific uses. For example, a Passenger Package includes a rear passenger seat, folding footpegs, and a clear protective wheel skirt. Another useful accessory package is The Haul It All Kit, which includes a front rack, large front basket, large rear basket, and a center storage module.
In my testing, I used packing straps with Velcro strips to carry a case of bottled water. The rear rack and other structural pieces are nicely finished and especially rugged, which enhanced my confidence to attach various objects to the frame.
Later I used plastic zip ties to attach three plastic milk crates to the RadRunner’s rear rack. My jury-rigged crate storage setup significantly widened the e-bike’s rear geometry, but even when packed with groceries, the load was no challenge for the RadRunner 3 Plus.
Bruce Brown/Digital Trends Getting to the bottom of rider comfort The e-bike’s step-thru frame makes it easy for anyone to mount the RadRunner 3 Plus without needing to swing a leg over the seat. This frame design is especially helpful when you have cargo or a passenger on the back of the e-bike. Note that adding the optional center console negates the advantage of the step-thru design.
The latest RadRunner model’s standard plush seat is reasonably comfortable, and an adjustable front fork suspension system further smoothes out the ride. The original model with no front suspension and a thinner seat required extra vigilance to avoid pavement irregularities while riding. There is no rear suspension — which would be a nice upgrade for next year.
If you keep the e-bike’s fat tires fully inflated, a must when carrying cargo, the tires’ high sidewalls will also soften the ride compared to conventional tires. If you drop the air pressure a pound or two, the ride will be even softer, but you’ll be compromising safety a bit.
Standard front and rear Tektro hydraulic disc brakes also contribute to rider comfort. Hydraulic brakes require lower lever pull effort for arguably smoother stops than mechanical brakes, which the original RadRunner had. They do require a bit more maintenance, but rider control is important when it comes to safety — which is another strong differentiator for this bike.
Safety matters The RadRunner 3 Plus has a built-in LED headlight and taillight, which come on automatically, and the taillight gets brighter when you brake, just like a car. Reflective stripes on the bike’s custom Kenda tires increase visibility day and night, and K-Shield puncture protection minimizes your chance of having a flat tire. The only safety-related item I’d like to see improved is the relatively weak-sounding bell to alert pedestrians who don’t hear the e-bike approaching.
Bruce Brown/Digital Trends Speed control as a safety feature You may have noticed that so far I’ve avoided addressing two of the most common questions people have about e-bikes: How fast does it go? How far will it go without recharging the battery? The battery range question is always impossible to answer because it depends on too many factors including rider and cargo weight, speed, road surface, incline, wind, and even air temperature. Rad Power Bikes estimates the RadRunner 3 Plus range is 25 to 45 miles per charge, depending on all of the above.
Speed, however, is another matter, and Rad is for sure in charge. As a Class 2 e-bike, the RadRunner 3 Plus is capped at 20 mph. And you can’t defeat it without rebuilding the bike, which would void the warranty and also, in most if not all states, make the bike illegal.
Many other e-bike manufacturers support the Class 3 e-bike mode, which allows a 28 mph top speed with pedal assist only, not with throttle control. Some manufacturers also have an off-road or unlimited setting, which they explain with warnings that riders should use that mode only when they are not on public roadways. Wink, wink.
I quickly reached the level of confidence in the e-bike that I didn’t hesitate to leave the pavement for grassy hills, dirt roads, and moderately rough off-road riding.
Rad Power Bikes has consistently held the line on the 20 mph maximum speed for its e-bikes. While owners and enthusiasts have discovered cheat codes or secret settings to defeat speed limits on older Rad e-bikes, I was not able to find any such workarounds for the RadRunner 3 Plus.
So, is the 20 mph limit a buzz-kill? Sure, for some it could be, but those people aren’t likely shopping for a compact utility e-bike such as the RadRunner 3 Plus. If you want to buy an e-bike that goes faster than 20 mph, there are plenty of good choices, such as the recently-reviewed Engwe EP-2 Pro folding fat tire e-bike and the Super73-S Adventure Series.
 If you like the idea of an e-bike that can get you around town and country while carrying anything from a bale of hay to a week’s worth of groceries, you probably don’t care that much about higher speeds. If you’ve ever accidentally broken open a hay bale, you know how much of a mess that can make.
But is it fun to ride? Bruce Brown/Digital Trends With all that said, it’s fair to wonder if riding the RadRunner 3 Plus is fun. The answer is a resounding “Yes!” The RadRunner’s rugged, stable frame, smooth power delivery, and controlled braking to more than support rider comfort and safety. As I was noodling around the streets and paths in our town I quickly reached the level of confidence in the e-bike that I didn’t hesitate to leave the pavement for grassy hills, dirt roads, and moderately rough off-road riding.
I didn’t keep the RadRunner’s speedometer figuratively pegged at 20 mph all the time I rode it, especially when I was toting various items on the rear rack. Whenever I had a chance, however, I found the e-bike had no difficulty maintaining the maximum speed. We have a steep driveway and I’m happy to report that even though the Rad’s 750-watt peak power motor is speed-limited, there was plenty of low-end torque to pull the bike up to our garage with barely any effect from the driveway grade. Rad Power Bikes claims the current motor is updated for 10% more torque than earlier versions.
Part of the enjoyment factor with the RadRunner 3 Plus is discovering all the things you can do with it. I had never before zip-tied dairy crates to an e-bike to carry groceries, but when I thought about it, I didn’t hesitate with the RadRunner 3 Plus. This is the kind of bike that embraces a little creativity.
Maximum versatility The Rad Power Bikes RadRunner 3 Plus is a highly evolved, wonderfully flexible utility e-bike. The RadRunner 3 Plus’s $2,300 starting price is a bit north of what you might expect, but the raft of accessory options and packages are extremely reasonably priced so you can build on the solid, highly capable base without destroying your budget.
The Juiced Bikes Scorpion e-bikes are another moped-style platform with several versions since the original 2020 launch edition. The Scorpions aren’t constrained by a 20-mph speed limit if that matters to you, but they also lack the RadRunner 3 Plus’s overall utility, and the current version, the $2,500 Juiced Bikes HyperScorpion, has a maximum cargo capacity of 275 pounds, 75 pounds less than the RadRunner 3 Plus.
If you want a rugged, highly versatile utility e-bike designed for rider comfort and safety, you should absolutely buy the Rad Power Bikes RadRunner 3 Plus.
Editors' Recommendations Rad Power Bikes’ new e-bike models boost accessibility and visibility e-Bikes eBike Reviews Product Reviews Outdoors EcoFlow, a manufacturer of portable energy solutions, has announced the launch of the Delta 2 Max -- an eco-friendly solar generator that could replace your current gas generator. The device clocks in at 2,048 watts and should deliver enough power to keep your home running for two days as an emergency backup (or many more if you’re using it as an off-grid power source).
The original Delta Max was a popular item for outdoor adventures, as it could connect to the existing lineup of portable EcoFlow solar panels to juice up gadgets while out in the backcountry. That legacy continues with the Delta 2 Max, which features an upgraded lithium iron phosphate (LFP) battery for a longer life cycle and faster charging.
Outdoors Warm weather is here, and so is grilling season. Now is as good a time as any to set out in search of one of the best outdoor grills, and it’s never a bad time to keep an eye out for a discount on one as well. Whether you’re a grilling beginner ready for some burgers with the family or a seasoned pro looking to host summer gatherings around one of the best smart grills and smokers, we’ve tracked down all of the details you need to land a deal on a grill that’s right for your needs. Read onward for more details.
Everdure CUBE charcoal grill — $150, was $199 The Everdure CUBE charcoal grill is a unique little grill that can truly go almost anywhere with you. It’s lightweight and only 17-inches long, yet still can handle almost any grilling challenge a griller on the go could hope to throw at it. It has a built-in heat protection shield and chrome handles that remain cool while cooking, and the removable charcoal tray offers easy cleanup when you’re finished at the campground or on the beach. Wherever you intend to do some grilling this summer, the Everdure CUBE charcoal grill is a great option as a copilot.
Outdoors The best electric bikes have come a long way in recent years and we don't just mean in terms of the miles you travel. With technology changing quickly, there are also an increasing number of electric bike deals around and we've picked out some of the very best. Electric bikes are a great way of getting around more easily and without necessarily needing to use as much stamina as a regular bike. Below, you'll find fantastic e-bike bike deals from many different retailers. There'll be something for every need here. Let's take a look at them.
Jasion EB5 Electric Bike -- $430, was $750 With a 350w brushless motor, the Jasion EB5 Electric Bike can achieve a top speed of 20 MPH with a range of up to 25-40 miles per charge. It has four working modes with a PAS mode where the motor assists with a moderate amount of power as you pedal, along with a Pure Electric Mode, a Pedal Mode, and a Booster Mode where the bike assist on hills and anywhere else you might be struggling. 26-inch puncture-resistant tires provide excellent durability while there's a high-strength front fork suspension, Shimano 7-speed gears, dual lights, and an LCD display. The latter offers controls for adjustable backlight brightness with one of five levels, along with mode controls.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
