Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Outdoors Reviews Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Runhood Rallye 600 Pro review: a battery mothership with mini batteries to-go By Simon Sage Close $1,659.00 Unique modular design Audio alerts Met advertised capacity One pack failed in testing Some awkward design decisions Packs scrape in and out Doesn't feel rugged It can be really hard to find a power station that’s interesting. When shopping around, it’s often as simple as answering “Does it charge my stuff?” That’s why the Runhood Rallye 600 caught my eye when it came out late last year.
The basics Is hot-swapping that hot? Solar-ready Bottom line Instead of just being a big chunky battery, it sports two bays for removable power packs. This means you can hot-swap empty batteries in the housing to charge and walk away with the full ones. You can then put a module on the end of one of those fresh batteries to either plug in USB devices or standard AC devices.
The best battery packs and power stations for use in the outdoors The basics Let’s go over the main features of the Rallye 600.
2 x USB-A out, QuickCharge 3.0, 28 W each 2 x USB-C, 1 out, 1 in/out, 100 W each 2 x AC, pure sine, 300 W each 2 x DC out, 60 W each Car lighter DC out, 120 W DC in, 180 W LED flashlight with three flash modes LCD status display 1296 Wh between four battery packs 17 pounds The hardware layout is generally practical but introduced a few hurdles. For one, the handle makes storage a little challenging. I’ve generally favored power stations with flat tops so you can stack stuff on them. This seems to be a decision Rallye has remedied in its recently-announced 1200W modular power station.
Second, the two AC outlets share a grounding wire slot, which means you’re kind of screwed if you want to plug in two devices with grounds.
Third, the battery packs fit very snugly in the charging bays, but they don’t go in on guide rails or anything. It’s just plastic on plastic. It didn’t take long for the packs to start scuffing along their corners, and I’m concerned about longer-term wear. Still, the locking mechanism in the back ensures confidence that the battery pack is in place.
Simon Sage The plastic shell of the housing unit doesn’t feel especially sturdy, which is too bad because it’s easy to imagine something like this in a remote, rough environment. When trying to figure out who might best put a system like this to use, I thought of environmental researchers who go out into the boonies to collect data with power-hungry equipment. You could have the housing plugged into solar panels at a campsite, then two teams heading out during the day each with one of the battery packs to keep their drones powered. Once they come back, they can swap in their dead batteries, and get ready to go again with the fresh ones.
That’s a pretty specific use case, but ultimately this thing hinges on being able to scale the portability of your power up or down as needed. If you don’t find yourself shifting gears like that often, there are probably more straightforward power stations available for you.
Rounding out the hardware is a clear LCD screen that provides all of the relevant alerts, and an LED flashlight, which is a handy mainstay for most (but not all) power stations. The Rallye 600’s audio alerts are crisp and useful for knowing when your batteries are running low. There’s no wireless charging or mobile app here, which are nice extras some competitors offer.
Is hot-swapping that hot? Simon Sage I was testing the Pro kit, which included four battery packs total and a 100W solar panel.
The biggest issue I bumped into was the failure of one of the battery packs.
After a full discharge inside the housing, the pack was unable to charge back up. It flashed all five of its LEDs whenever it was turned on, indicating a critical failure.
I was completely depleting these batteries, and swapping them out routinely. In this instance, I have no doubt that I would be able to tap into the two-year warranty for a replacement, but it does make me a little suspicious about the reliability of this modular set-up.
The product page boasts “swapping batteries on the go” and “batteries that can be switched even when running”, but the instruction manual is loaded with warnings like “when charging, DO NOT remove battery from the housing”, and “we highly recommend you charge the batteries in pairs.” Those are hard qualifiers to keep in mind if you’re in a fast-paced quick-swapping environment, especially if the stakes are a dead battery.
Simon Sage Measuring a charge from 4% to 100% clocked about 695Wh through our Emporia smart plug , and we got about 654Wh on the discharge. Each battery is rated for 324 Wh, so we’re actually seeing higher performance than their combined listed 648Wh. In practical terms, each of those individual batteries could keep my laptop going through a full, standard workday. Within the housing, the two could keep my gaming PC going for about 2.5 hours. No luck getting it to run my microwave, however. Besides the four-hour charging time, these results are roughly in line with the EcoFlow River 2 Pro which I tested earlier.
Modules are available to plug into each battery pack. This gives you power output via either USB or AC. The USB module sports two USB-A slots at 28W each, and two USB-C slots at 100W, one of which can also be used as a charging input. The AC module maxes out at 160W. These modules are somewhat necessary to make the battery packs independently useful. I’d love to see a greater variety of modules down the road, like a flashlight or a fan — simple tools that can benefit from the power supply. These are chonky batteries, so keep in mind that when you’re using them on their own, they’ll take up a fair bit of space.
Solar-ready Simon Sage The solar panel that comes along with this kit is pretty great. It has a pouch big enough to stash almost all of the adapters you need. For the ones that don’t fit, they toss in an extra external pouch, complete with a flap for all of the manuals. This secondary pouch I use for the adapter which can charge the removable power packs directly. It’s nice to have the option to skip the power station and charge the batteries directly if needed.
Simon Sage The solar panel itself is very portable. The handle has a solid rubber grip, the adjustable clips keep things packed up tightly, and all six sections have their own built-in kickstand. There are four mounting points at each corner, then another four on velcro straps along the length, providing loads of options for set-up. The overall dimensions work well for storage, but when deployed, you basically get a very long and skinny panel. I’ve found that a bit awkward to work with, versus something closer to a square.
Simon Sage The power station can be charged via solar thanks to an included DC adapter. If you’re super gung-ho, you can plug in two panels with yet another separate adapter. Maximum Power Point Tracking (MPPT) support ensures the batteries can adapt to shifting power input rates.
Bottom line It’s neat having a fully-integrated ecosystem, but it may be simpler just to buy a big power station and use it to charge smaller battery packs via USB ports. Yeah, it’s uglier with more cables lying around, but considering the possibility of otherwise killing one of Runhood’s proprietary battery packs through some hot-swapping fluke, it’s an aesthetic risk I’m willing to take.
Even under perfect performance conditions, the Runhood Rallye 600 is designed to meet a fairly specific demand: remote power when you’re already running on remote power. Not too many folks are routinely in a position where they’re twice removed from a reliable power source. If you are, there aren’t a lot of other products that offer what Runhood does here.
Editors' Recommendations GoSun’s new portable power stations use the sun’s ray to charge devices Portable Power Stations Power Station Reviews Outdoors EcoFlow, a manufacturer of portable energy solutions, has announced the launch of the Delta 2 Max -- an eco-friendly solar generator that could replace your current gas generator. The device clocks in at 2,048 watts and should deliver enough power to keep your home running for two days as an emergency backup (or many more if you’re using it as an off-grid power source).
The original Delta Max was a popular item for outdoor adventures, as it could connect to the existing lineup of portable EcoFlow solar panels to juice up gadgets while out in the backcountry. That legacy continues with the Delta 2 Max, which features an upgraded lithium iron phosphate (LFP) battery for a longer life cycle and faster charging.
Outdoors Warm weather is here, and so is grilling season. Now is as good a time as any to set out in search of one of the best outdoor grills, and it’s never a bad time to keep an eye out for a discount on one as well. Whether you’re a grilling beginner ready for some burgers with the family or a seasoned pro looking to host summer gatherings around one of the best smart grills and smokers, we’ve tracked down all of the details you need to land a deal on a grill that’s right for your needs. Read onward for more details.
Everdure CUBE charcoal grill — $150, was $199 The Everdure CUBE charcoal grill is a unique little grill that can truly go almost anywhere with you. It’s lightweight and only 17-inches long, yet still can handle almost any grilling challenge a griller on the go could hope to throw at it. It has a built-in heat protection shield and chrome handles that remain cool while cooking, and the removable charcoal tray offers easy cleanup when you’re finished at the campground or on the beach. Wherever you intend to do some grilling this summer, the Everdure CUBE charcoal grill is a great option as a copilot.
Outdoors The best electric bikes have come a long way in recent years and we don't just mean in terms of the miles you travel. With technology changing quickly, there are also an increasing number of electric bike deals around and we've picked out some of the very best. Electric bikes are a great way of getting around more easily and without necessarily needing to use as much stamina as a regular bike. Below, you'll find fantastic e-bike bike deals from many different retailers. There'll be something for every need here. Let's take a look at them.
Jasion EB5 Electric Bike -- $430, was $750 With a 350w brushless motor, the Jasion EB5 Electric Bike can achieve a top speed of 20 MPH with a range of up to 25-40 miles per charge. It has four working modes with a PAS mode where the motor assists with a moderate amount of power as you pedal, along with a Pure Electric Mode, a Pedal Mode, and a Booster Mode where the bike assist on hills and anywhere else you might be struggling. 26-inch puncture-resistant tires provide excellent durability while there's a high-strength front fork suspension, Shimano 7-speed gears, dual lights, and an LCD display. The latter offers controls for adjustable backlight brightness with one of five levels, along with mode controls.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
