Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Outdoors Deals Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? EV Flash Sale: Save on e-bikes, e-mopeds, and even e-go karts By Aaron Mamiit Close Interest in e-bike deals has steadily been growing as the technology behind these electric vehicles have improved by leaps and bounds.
E-bikes , as well as e-mopeds and e-go karts, are increasing in popularity because they can let you get to your destinations quickly — faster than using a regular bicycle, and possibly also quicker than cars because they can weave through traffic. The good models are understandably expensive, but fortunately there are discounts that you can take advantage of. Here are some of the top offers that you can shop right now, but you’ll have to hurry because these probably won’t last long.
Segway Ninebot KickScooter F30 — $400, was $650 Segway Ninebot KickScooter G30Max — $700, was $1,000 Swft Maxx e-moped — $1,200, was $1,900 Aventon Aventure step-over e-bike — $1,500, was $2,000 Segway Ninebot GoKart Pro — $2,000, was $2,300 Segway Ninebot KickScooter F30 — $400, was $650 Segway The Segway Ninebot KickScooter F30 is an electric scooter that offers a maximum range of 18.6 miles and a top speed of 15.5 miles per hour. There are three riding modes for you to choose from: Eco, Standard, and Sports, all of which are accessible through its LED dashboard. The Segway Ninebot KickScooter F30 also comes with a regenerative braking system that collects energy to give you a boost when needed, and compatibility with the Segway Ninebot app for functions such as monitoring your riding status, locking the electric scooter, and upgrading its firmware, among others.
Segway Ninebot KickScooter G30Max — $700, was $1,000 Segway For longer range and faster top speed, go for the Segway Ninebot KickScooter G30Max, which can run for up to 40.4 miles at up to 18.6 miles per hour. The electric scooter can climb scopes at up to 20% incline, and its rear-wheel drive promises better acceleration, stability, and brakes. It has the same three riding modes of Eco, Standard, and Sports, but it also offers a built-in charger to make it easy to plug in wherever you go. The electric scooter’s 3A fast charging will fully charge it after 6 hours.
Swft Maxx e-moped — $1,200, was $1,900 Swft If you prefer an electric moped as your means of transportation, check out the Swft Maxx e-moped, which offers a maximum distance of up to 38 miles on a single charge and a top speed of up to 19.8 miles per hour. Fully charging the e-moped takes 10 hours, but it comes with a built-in charger so all you need is the outlet where to plug it in. The Swft Maxx e-moped’s brushless motor is quiet and efficient, while its front and rear hydraulics ensure maximum comfort for your daily rides.
Aventon Aventure step-over e-bike — $1,500, was $2,000 Aventon The Aventon Aventure step-over e-bike is designed to keep up with your outdoor adventures with its rugged design that includes a front suspension fork, built-in fenders, and 4-inch tires for comfort and stability. The electric bike also comes with an LCD display that shows your speed, battery charge, pedal assist level, and more. The Aventon Aventure offers a maximum operating range of 45 miles, a maximum speed of 28 miles per hour, and a battery charge time of 4.5 hours.
Segway Ninebot GoKart Pro — $2,000, was $2,300 Segway The Segway Ninebot GoKart Pro elevates the go-karting experience with a high-end brushless motor that’s capable of going up to 23 miles per hour with a range of up to 15.5 miles. You’ll still feel your adrenaline pumping with the electric go-kart’s engine sounds simulator that uses its built-in Bluetooth speaker, though you can also use the speaker for your own music. The Segway Ninebot GoKart Pro features a sturdy steel frame and four driving modes with increasing top speeds: Safety, Regular, Sport, and Race.
Editors' Recommendations There’s a fantastic Blackstone deal in Walmart’s Black Friday sale Speed up your daily commute with these e-bike deals This Co-op Cycles e-bike is over $500 off during the REI Labor Day sale Amazon is having a FLASH SALE on solar generators today — hurry! Amazon is having a (surprise) flash sale on solar generators today Deals Deals They say there’s a calm before the storm, and that was definitely the case with Best Buy’s Memorial Day Sale. Last week, the Blue Shirt retailer launched its annual Memorial Day Appliance Sale, bringing discounts on must-have kitchen appliances (the calm), and now it's following up with its blowout Memorial Day sale, which extends the price-cutting to high-end electronics (the storm). We're talking iPads, iPhones, MacBooks, 4K TVs, and more. Welcome to the Best Buy Memorial Day Sale (2020 Edition).
There are two types of Memorial Day shoppers: Those who like to browse the sales themselves, and those who like to have the best offers fed to them -- we cater to both. For the former, we're serving up a piping hot bowl of links to the various different sections of Best Buy's Memorial Day Sale, eliminating the need to sift through pages upon pages of products to find what you’re looking for. Instead, you can simply choose what you’re after in the list below. Choose TVs, for example, and you'll be browsing TVs. Crazy, huh? Deals Mother's Day 2020 is this Sunday, May 10. Whether you're looking for iPads or flowers, if you're shopping for Mother's Day gifts, today is your last chance to order from the following major retailers for delivery by Sunday.
1800 Flowers Outdoors This content was produced in partnership with Upway.
It wasn't too long ago that e-bikes were a rare sight, but all of that has changed, and rightfully so. Electric bikes are all over the road these days, and there are many brands either venturing into the technology, to launch their own versions of the sustainable transportation option or reiterating existing and traditional designs. From Aventon to Schwinn, or RadPower to Momentum, with so many opportunities, the prevailing question is, where do you go to find the best deals and the best information about these brands and their e-bike models? The answer is Upway, the number one certified electric bike provider and an official partner to many of the aforementioned brands.
What is Upway, exactly? It's a marketplace, specializing in e-bikes, featuring an inventory that's sourced from some of the best brands in the world. There are American brands -- like Specialized, Cannondale, and RadPower -- and European brands -- like Riese, Muller, and VanMoof. The best part is the discounts, offering up to 60% off retail, for a plethora of brands. Upway is on a mission to make sustainable mobility affordable for everyone. It's also one of the best places to go for a new or pre-owned e-bike, and here's why: Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
