Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Outdoors Features We could slow climate change by dimming the sun. But should we? By Thor Benson Close Heinrich-Böll-Stiftung The year is 2040. Although the world has made strides toward cutting greenhouse gas emissions, the changes happened too late, and they weren’t enough. The world is gripped by droughts, extreme weather , disease, famine, rising sea levels, and more. A group of scientists from the world’s most powerful countries decides it’s time to do the unthinkable: We have to dim the sun.
It’s not as crazy as it sounds But it’s also pretty risky If this wouldn’t work, what would? That’s the kind of scenario some scientists imagine when they think about solar radiation management (SRM): A controversial geoengineering scheme that involves dispatching planes into the stratosphere at different points around the planet, and using them to release tiny reflective particles into the atmosphere. These particles would remain in the stratosphere for as long as a year and reduce global temperature by reflecting some of the sun’s heat away from Earth.
It’s not as crazy as it sounds Daniel Cziczo, head of the department of Earth, Atmospheric and Planetary Sciences at Purdue University, tells Digital Trends that in order for such a plan to work, we’d need to release the particles near the equator.
“The stratosphere is this very stable area, so once you get material there, it sort of sloshes back and forth towards each pole. It doesn’t fall out rapidly,” Cziczo said. “What people propose doing is flying a very high altitude aircraft, and if you pump the material in near the equator, it has the tendency to move towards the wintertime pole and then, as the year goes on, back towards the other pole and so on.” Doug Hurley/NASA Scientists have not agreed upon a compound that would be best for such an idea. Sulfates have long been suggested, but they would do harm to the planet’s ozone layer. Aluminum oxide, calcium carbonate, and many other compounds have been suggested over the years. Scientists are currently studying different compounds in the lab and putting data into computer models to figure out if there is a compound that would reflect sunlight, wouldn’t harm the ozone layer, and wouldn’t cause problems down here on Earth once it left the stratosphere.
“The material does have to fall out, so once it falls into the troposphere, the question is what effect it will have,” Cziczo says. “On the way down, it could participate in cloud formation, it can have effects on precipitation and in extreme circumstances, it can certainly have effects on humans and ecosystems as it’s deposited. These are all things I don’t think enough research has been done on.” It wouldn’t cost a lot of money to do it, Cziczo says. The price tag would likely be in the hundreds of millions of dollars, which isn’t a lot when you’re talking about cooling down the planet.
But it’s also pretty risky Of course, this scheme isn’t without some serious downsides. Michael Mann, a distinguished professor of atmospheric science at Penn State University, tells Digital Trends that there could be many negative side effects to messing with the Earth’s atmosphere like this.
“Tampering with Earth’s radiation balance in an unprecedented manner is dangerous whether accidental (fossil fuel burning) or intentional (SRM),” Mann says. “The fact is that we don’t understand all of the potential side effects of sulfate aerosol geoengineering.” Cziczo says SRM also doesn’t fix all of the problems that are caused by climate change. Temperature rise contributes to sea-level rise, extreme weather, and many other problems, but mitigating temperature rise alone wouldn’t be a silver bullet for global warming.
A 1958 feature on weather control from the South Illinoisan featuring Dr. Harry Wexler.
Newspapers.com “It doesn’t solve the other problems of greenhouse gases, and the big one is ocean acidification. You bump up the amount of CO2 in the atmosphere, and we know we’re increasing the amount of acidity in the oceans. Some of that CO2 ends up in the oceans,” Cziczo says.
Ironically, SRM could also harm our ability to generate solar power , which is one of the energy sources we need to switch to in order to get off of fossil fuels. Because sunlight would be dimmed to some degree, solar panels would produce less power than they otherwise would.
Both Mann and Cziczo also worry that SRM could be used as an excuse to keep burning fossil fuels. If countries think we can just turn the temperature down once greenhouse gases get too high, then there’s less motivation for them to move away from fossil fuels, and there could be less motivation for companies to develop vehicles that don’t run on fossil fuels.
If this wouldn’t work, what would? While SRM is a bit too risky to attempt, there is a geoengineering plan that Cziczo and Mann agree could help us avoid a climate catastrophe: Carbon capture and storage (CCS). This technology has been in development for years and involves machines sucking CO2 out of the air and then storing it underground or transforming it into another substance.
The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) has said we will likely need to further develop and utilize this kind of technology if we want to not only stop greenhouse gas levels from rising further but actually reduce them to what they were decades ago.
“If we’re going to solve this problem, what we have to do is find a way to start removing carbon dioxide. That’s with us long-term. Anything else is masking,” Cziczo says. “We have to figure out a way to get those greenhouse gases out of the atmosphere and find a way to sequester them.” Features Outdoors EcoFlow, a manufacturer of portable energy solutions, has announced the launch of the Delta 2 Max -- an eco-friendly solar generator that could replace your current gas generator. The device clocks in at 2,048 watts and should deliver enough power to keep your home running for two days as an emergency backup (or many more if you’re using it as an off-grid power source).
The original Delta Max was a popular item for outdoor adventures, as it could connect to the existing lineup of portable EcoFlow solar panels to juice up gadgets while out in the backcountry. That legacy continues with the Delta 2 Max, which features an upgraded lithium iron phosphate (LFP) battery for a longer life cycle and faster charging.
Outdoors Warm weather is here, and so is grilling season. Now is as good a time as any to set out in search of one of the best outdoor grills, and it’s never a bad time to keep an eye out for a discount on one as well. Whether you’re a grilling beginner ready for some burgers with the family or a seasoned pro looking to host summer gatherings around one of the best smart grills and smokers, we’ve tracked down all of the details you need to land a deal on a grill that’s right for your needs. Read onward for more details.
Everdure CUBE charcoal grill — $150, was $199 The Everdure CUBE charcoal grill is a unique little grill that can truly go almost anywhere with you. It’s lightweight and only 17-inches long, yet still can handle almost any grilling challenge a griller on the go could hope to throw at it. It has a built-in heat protection shield and chrome handles that remain cool while cooking, and the removable charcoal tray offers easy cleanup when you’re finished at the campground or on the beach. Wherever you intend to do some grilling this summer, the Everdure CUBE charcoal grill is a great option as a copilot.
Outdoors The best electric bikes have come a long way in recent years and we don't just mean in terms of the miles you travel. With technology changing quickly, there are also an increasing number of electric bike deals around and we've picked out some of the very best. Electric bikes are a great way of getting around more easily and without necessarily needing to use as much stamina as a regular bike. Below, you'll find fantastic e-bike bike deals from many different retailers. There'll be something for every need here. Let's take a look at them.
Jasion EB5 Electric Bike -- $430, was $750 With a 350w brushless motor, the Jasion EB5 Electric Bike can achieve a top speed of 20 MPH with a range of up to 25-40 miles per charge. It has four working modes with a PAS mode where the motor assists with a moderate amount of power as you pedal, along with a Pure Electric Mode, a Pedal Mode, and a Booster Mode where the bike assist on hills and anywhere else you might be struggling. 26-inch puncture-resistant tires provide excellent durability while there's a high-strength front fork suspension, Shimano 7-speed gears, dual lights, and an LCD display. The latter offers controls for adjustable backlight brightness with one of five levels, along with mode controls.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
