Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Outdoors Deals Upway launches one of the best marketplaces for certified e-bikes, new or not By Briley Kenney Close Image used with permission by copyright holder This content was produced in partnership with Upway.
New or pre-owned: Choose what works for you What is a certified e-bike from Upway? So much to choose from It wasn’t too long ago that e-bikes were a rare sight, but all of that has changed, and rightfully so.
Electric bikes are all over the road these days, and there are many brands either venturing into the technology, to launch their own versions of the sustainable transportation option or reiterating existing and traditional designs. From Aventon to Schwinn, or RadPower to Momentum, with so many opportunities, the prevailing question is, where do you go to find the best deals and the best information about these brands and their e-bike models? The answer is Upway, the number one certified electric bike provider and an official partner to many of the aforementioned brands.
What is Upway, exactly? It’s a marketplace, specializing in e-bikes, featuring an inventory that’s sourced from some of the best brands in the world. There are American brands — like Specialized, Cannondale, and RadPower — and European brands — like Riese, Muller, and VanMoof. The best part is the discounts, offering up to 60% off retail, for a plethora of brands. Upway is on a mission to make sustainable mobility affordable for everyone. It’s also one of the best places to go for a new or pre-owned e-bike, and here’s why: New or pre-owned: Choose what works for you Image used with permission by copyright holder Upway carries both new and pre-owned e-bikes on their website, which also means, yes, if you have a bike to sell, you can do so through the same place. They’ll buy your used bikes if you want to uprade, or even if you just want to sell e-bikes that you don’t use anymore. It’s easy to do too. Just describe the condition of the bike and its history, snap some photos, and provide the information through Upway’s site, and you’ll get a quote 24 to 48 hours later.
As for bikes you order, they’re delivered directly to your doorstep within two to five business days, in the U.S., so you never have to venture out to find the right bike for you — or your family. It comes ready to ride too, so no need to assemble the bike beforehand. Just unpack and go.
There are a ton of different styles available to choose from too, including: Cargo bikes City or hybrid bikes Folding bikes Mountain bikes Road bikes Perhaps, one of the more valuable resources that Upway offers is a series of guides, like its purchasing guide that explains how to choose bikes based on features and functionality. For example, what battery, motor, or specifications should you be looking for? Every bike is different, but if you can nail down what features are most important, and how you’ll be using your e-bike, you stand a better chance of finding the ideal option for you. Upway has you covered there via its informative blog, which offers guides on the different types of e-bikes, how to take care of your new bike(s), and much more.
But if you’re like us, you’re a little more curious about its e-bike inventory and what kinds of certified bikes are in store.
What is a certified e-bike from Upway? Upway Image used with permission by copyright holder Every bike from Upway is inspected, repaired if necessary, and then certified by a professional mechanic before being sold. All models get a 20-point certification process , and if they don’t pass, they’re not sold, whether they’re in new or “like-new” condition. Upway’s warehouse is located in Brooklyn, New York, which is home to some incredibly skilled mechanics.
During the inspection process, each part is analyzed, and those parts are either repaired or replaced before making it through the process. It means that all bikes that make their way to your doorstep, regardless of the condition you select, have earned their certification. Upway also offers a one-year warranty with a 14-day return window for those who aren’t satisfied.
A major concern for all e-bikes, new or used, is the battery, including quality, life-cycles, and reliability. In fact, the battery is what makes up the majority of an e-bike’s overall cost. While today’s lithium-ion batteries won’t last forever, they’re generally really good about preserving capacities, even after quite a few charge-and-recharge lifecycles. It means that you’re not missing out on anything by buying used, especially thanks to Upway’s 20-point inspection.
So much to choose from Because Upway doesn’t carry just a single brand, but rather a ton of options, it doesn’t make much sense to call out one or two here. Some of the brands you’ll find include Aventon, Bianchi, Bulls, Cannondale, Gazelle, RadPower, Serial 1, Specialized, Stromer, VanMoof, Yamaha, and many more. Even with that long list, there are still a bunch worth reviewing.
In fact, the best way to find a bike that matches your riding style is to browse for yourself. If you’re not ready now, although we recommend taking a look at the very least, then be sure to remember Upway. They carry all of the brands you could ever be interested in, but more importantly, they offer deals and discounts that you won’t find anywhere else, even on new e-bikes.
Listen up Digital Trends readers. For a limited time, when you use coupon code DT you’ll save $200 off of any order over $500. That is a fantastic way to save a little more on your next big e-bike purchase. Make sure you jot that code down.
Browse E-bikes on Upway Editors' Recommendations Teleport Ride: No other e-bike comes close in range, power, and speed This Co-op Cycles e-bike is over $500 off during the REI Labor Day sale Deals e-Bikes Outdoors EcoFlow, a manufacturer of portable energy solutions, has announced the launch of the Delta 2 Max -- an eco-friendly solar generator that could replace your current gas generator. The device clocks in at 2,048 watts and should deliver enough power to keep your home running for two days as an emergency backup (or many more if you’re using it as an off-grid power source).
The original Delta Max was a popular item for outdoor adventures, as it could connect to the existing lineup of portable EcoFlow solar panels to juice up gadgets while out in the backcountry. That legacy continues with the Delta 2 Max, which features an upgraded lithium iron phosphate (LFP) battery for a longer life cycle and faster charging.
Outdoors Warm weather is here, and so is grilling season. Now is as good a time as any to set out in search of one of the best outdoor grills, and it’s never a bad time to keep an eye out for a discount on one as well. Whether you’re a grilling beginner ready for some burgers with the family or a seasoned pro looking to host summer gatherings around one of the best smart grills and smokers, we’ve tracked down all of the details you need to land a deal on a grill that’s right for your needs. Read onward for more details.
Everdure CUBE charcoal grill — $150, was $199 The Everdure CUBE charcoal grill is a unique little grill that can truly go almost anywhere with you. It’s lightweight and only 17-inches long, yet still can handle almost any grilling challenge a griller on the go could hope to throw at it. It has a built-in heat protection shield and chrome handles that remain cool while cooking, and the removable charcoal tray offers easy cleanup when you’re finished at the campground or on the beach. Wherever you intend to do some grilling this summer, the Everdure CUBE charcoal grill is a great option as a copilot.
Outdoors The best electric bikes have come a long way in recent years and we don't just mean in terms of the miles you travel. With technology changing quickly, there are also an increasing number of electric bike deals around and we've picked out some of the very best. Electric bikes are a great way of getting around more easily and without necessarily needing to use as much stamina as a regular bike. Below, you'll find fantastic e-bike bike deals from many different retailers. There'll be something for every need here. Let's take a look at them.
Jasion EB5 Electric Bike -- $430, was $750 With a 350w brushless motor, the Jasion EB5 Electric Bike can achieve a top speed of 20 MPH with a range of up to 25-40 miles per charge. It has four working modes with a PAS mode where the motor assists with a moderate amount of power as you pedal, along with a Pure Electric Mode, a Pedal Mode, and a Booster Mode where the bike assist on hills and anywhere else you might be struggling. 26-inch puncture-resistant tires provide excellent durability while there's a high-strength front fork suspension, Shimano 7-speed gears, dual lights, and an LCD display. The latter offers controls for adjustable backlight brightness with one of five levels, along with mode controls.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
