Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Upcoming PS5 Games PlayStation Plus Best PS5 Games Connect PS5 Controller to PC Best PS5 Headsets How to Turn Off PS5 Free PS5 Games Xbox Series X vs PS5 PS5 Voice Commands Home Gaming Products Xbox Series X vs. PS5 By Gabe Gurwin and Joseph Yaden Close The Xbox Series X and the PlayStation 5 launched at the end of 2020, and while manufacturer shortages made them difficult to find, both systems are now more readily available from various retailers. With that in mind, you might be on the fence about which system to buy. Since both offer similar features, it can be overwhelming when trying to decide which system is right for you. Thankfully, we’ve spent a considerable amount of time with each, allowing us to assist you in making an informed buying decision.
Specs Storage Design Controller Backward compatibility Game lineup Online services Conclusion In this guide, we’ll compare specs, design, game lineups, and a host of other important factors so you can pick the best console.
Recommended reading: Best Xbox Series X games PS5 vs. PS5 Digital Edition Best PS5 games Specs Xbox Series X PS5 Dimensions 15.1 x 15.1 x 30.1 cm 39cm x 26 x 10.4 cm Weight 9.8 pounds 10.54 pounds Color Black Black and white CPU 3.8GHz Custom Zen 2 3.5GHz Custom Zen 2 GPU 12 TFLOPS 1.825GHz RDNA 2 10.28 TFLOPS 2.23GHz Memory GDDR6, 16GB GDDR6, 16GB Memory bandwidth 10GB at 560GBps, 6GB at 336GBps 448GBps Storage 1TB custom NVME SSD 825GB SSD Optical drive 4K Blu-ray Yes 4K Yes Yes HDR Yes Yes Ports HDMI x 2, USB 3.2 x 2, Ethernet, storage, power Includes USB and NVME slot Online subscription Xbox Live Gold/Game Pass PS Plus Price $499 Digital: $399 Disc: $499 Digital Trends review 3.5/5 4.5/5 Got a PS5? Here’s how to get 6 free months of Apple Music Best PS5 SSD Black Friday deals: Add more storage to your PS5 now The best PS5 exclusives On the PS5 side, the console uses AMD chips across the board. This includes an eight-core CPU running on a modified version of the Ryzen line. This CPU uses 7nm Zen 2 microarchitecture. Its CPU is, on paper, slightly less powerful than the Xbox Series X CPU.
The PS5’s GPU is also from AMD, based on the Radeon Navi line, and it supports the resource-intensive process known as ray tracing. This information comes from an interview that the lead system architect, Mark Cerny, had with Wired.
 The GPU runs at 10.28 TFLOPS with 2.23GHz, which puts it in relative competition with the Xbox Series X GPU. The PS5 also comes with a 4K Blu-ray player, placing it in line with the Xbox One S and Xbox One X. The discs have a capacity of 100GB — double that of the previous generation.
The Xbox Series X features 12 TFLOPS of power and up to eight times more graphical performance than the Xbox One, and twice as much as the Xbox One X. The Xbox Series X has 16GB of GDDR6 RAM, while the Xbox One X uses 12GB of GDDR5 RAM. Even a small boost to this is sufficient for modern games. The Series X supports features like a variable refresh rate, variable rate shading technology, and a low-latency mode, allowing for better responses out of your games.
There’s a less expensive console in Microsoft’s lineup, though: Xbox Series S.
 At $299, the console isn’t nearly as powerful as its more expensive sibling, targeting 1440p gaming rather than 4K. Still, it offers similar functionality as the Series X, minus a disc drive and some horsepower. It’s also important to note that the Xbox Series S system is typically easier to find across various retailers, while the Series X and PS5 are a bit harder to obtain, though supply has improved in recent months.
The PS5 has a digital-only option as well.
Storage Image used with permission by copyright holder Sony finally moved away from hard drives in favor of solid-state drives for the PS5. It is a custom, superfast 825GB SSD, with a slot for expanding storage via NVME.
The PS5’s SSD also allows it to segment how you install content.
 If you only want to install the campaign in the latest Call of Duty game, for instance, you can do that and get to playing it much more quickly. You can also load directly into certain modes from the dashboard, hypothetically allowing you to jump right into a multiplayer match with a friend instead of having to navigate all the menus first. This is implemented on a game-by-game basis, of course, but it’s still neat that it’s available at all.
You are even able to see what rewards you can get for completing possible activities right from the dashboard, with game servers providing this information. Following an update shortly after launch, Sony allowed for PS5 games to be stored on an external drive, giving players a convenient way to make the most out of their storage. As it stands, the stock 825GB of onboard memory might not be enough, especially for those massive install sizes. You can also store PS4 games on an external drive, meaning you won’t run out of memory as quickly.
The Xbox Series X also makes use of a solid-state drive. It is a custom 1TB SSD using NVME technology, and it supports proprietary expansion cards. Both consoles support external HDDs as well, but they are not fast enough to run next-generation games. It’s recommended to wait to purchase external hard drives in the next couple of years so they’re up to par with the requirements of current games. You are able to store Xbox Series X games on a specific external device, giving you a wider array of games to choose from, though be prepared to spend a pretty penny since the official version costs around $220.
Design Xbox Series X Image used with permission by copyright holder The Xbox Series X resembles a tall PC tower. It is substantially larger than the Xbox One X and Xbox One S systems, but still features a power button and disc drive on the front. The top of the system caves slightly inward and is made up entirely of ventilation holes for better airflow. It can also be positioned horizontally to fit into entertainment centers better.
PS5 (standard and digital editions) Image used with permission by copyright holder As for the PS5, it looks quite unusual, with a combination of black and white colors and curves on each side. In much of the promotional material, the system is shown standing up vertically, but you are able to place it on its side. The system doesn’t look a whole lot like the PS4 — or any previous PlayStation system, for that matter. There is also a diskless version that is slightly smaller and less expensive — but is mostly identical to the disc-based version.
You are able to swap out the white panels on the side for a variety of colors including blue, purple, black, red, and pink. Faceplates are a bit pricey, however, at $55 each, which is almost the price of a new game.
Controller DualSense Image used with permission by copyright holder The PS5 ‘s official controller is called the DualSense — PlayStation dropped the DualShock moniker altogether. The DualSense ditches traditional rumble motors in favor of haptic feedback, which makes for a more immersive experience. This new technology allows for more specific responses in games, such as resistance in the analog sticks when you are walking on a tough surface. The triggers also offer variable resistance, mimicking the action being performed, such as pulling back the string of a bow.
The battery packed into the controller includes a higher capacity than its predecessor. This was one of the biggest drawbacks of the DualShock 4 in the previous generation. The controller itself resembles the console, with a combination of black and white coloring, but you can also purchase a variety of colors just like the faceplates. It’s a bit bulkier than the DualShock 4, which may or may not be a good thing. The DualSense incorporates the same basic button layout as previous controllers, but with a few minor changes. Gone is the Share button. Instead, Sony opted to include a Create button to take its place, and it functions the same, with added features. It also includes a built-in mic and headphone jack.
Those looking for a premium PS5 controller should look no further than the DualSense Edge.
 This gamepad allows you to swap out the thumbsticks and paddles, with an emphasis on backend button customization.
Another major feature worth mentioning is PlayStation VR2 , the new virtual reality headset from Sony. This add-on is touted as next-gen VR and offers a more streamlined setup, with much more power. PS VR2 launches on February 22, 2023. It’s not a necessary addition, but one worth considering when choosing between PS5 and Xbox Series X.
Xbox Series X controller Image used with permission by copyright holder The Xbox Series X controller isn’t drastically different from the Xbox One controller. It does have a new Share button, which works much like the way it does on the DualShock 4, as well as an updated directional pad based on the Xbox One Elite 2 controller’s pad.
The controller is cross-generation compatible with Xbox One, as are the Xbox One’s accessories. This means any controllers that players already own for Xbox One will work on the new system. It seems Microsoft is going in a totally different direction from Sony when it comes to next-generation controllers. Microsoft is showing that, once again, consumer-friendly decisions like these are at the forefront. The new Xbox Series X controller also features a USB-C charge port instead of the Micro USB found on previous versions.
Backward compatibility Image used with permission by copyright holder Unlike the PS4, Sony’s newest console is backward compatible — at least in some capacity. The PS5 is able to play PS4 games in addition to its own library of titles as well as PlayStation VR games. It is also backward compatible with the PlayStation VR headset supported by the PS4, and it will support PS VR2.
As confirmed in a PlayStation Blog post , most of your PS4 games do work on PS5. In fact, only a small handful of games are incompatible.
The list of non-backward-compatible games is as follows: Afro Samurai 2: Revenge of Kuma — Volume 1 Just Deal With It! Robinson: The Journey We Sing Hitman Go: Definitive Edition Shadwen It’s unclear why these games in particular aren’t backward compatible with the PS5, but you can rest easy knowing that the overwhelming majority of your PS4 games work on the new machine. Unfortunately, backward compatibility stops at PS4 games. Sony might continue to release PS2 ports as it has with PS4, but in terms of “true” backward compatibility beyond that, it seems unlikely.
Image used with permission by copyright holder As for Xbox, Microsoft confirmed during E3 2019 that Xbox Series X supports most previous-generation Xbox games, similar to the way Xbox One works. This means you’re able to play eligible original Xbox, Xbox 360, Xbox One, and Xbox Series X|S games all on the new machine. That’s a huge win for game preservation. While the Xbox Series X might not have the exclusive game lineup the PS5 has, Microsoft should be praised for its consumer-friendly approach to backward compatibility.
Game lineup Sony Interactive Entertainment Sony’s library of games on PS5 is impressive, and includes Marvel’s Spider-Man: Miles Morales, Demon’s Souls, Ratchet & Clank: Rift Apart, Returnal, and The Last of Us Part I , to name a few. These are just some of the exclusives available on the platform right now, with more in the pipeline, including Final Fantasy XVI, Marvel’s Spider-Man 2, Marvel’s Wolverine , and (for PS VR2) Horizon Call of the Mountain.
But these exclusives aren’t the only reasons to get a PS5, as the system boasts a wide variety of third-party titles, too. Many of these games, such as Star Wars: Jedi Survivor, Resident Evil 4, Diablo IV , and Dragon Age: Dreadwolf , will come to the platform in the future, giving players lots to look forward to.
Ultimately, there are plenty of current and upcoming PS5 games that might interest you, so be sure to keep that in mind when selecting between PS5 and Xbox Series X.
Bethesda As for the Xbox Series X, there aren’t as many meaningful exclusives just yet, but Microsoft is getting there. Discussing exclusives gets tricky since most games on the platform are backward compatible with the Xbox One. Of course, the Xbox Series X versions offer improved performance, but they’re still playable on older hardware. Currently, the system offers Halo Infinite, As Dusk Falls , Hi-Fi Rush , and Grounded , among others. Microsoft has big plans for the future, with exclusive games such as Fable , Redfall, Starfield, Forza Motorsport, S.T.A.L.K.E.R 2 , and Senua’s Saga: Hellblade 2 all currently in the works.
Of course, the Xbox Series X also supports a slew of third-party games, giving players more options across the board. Remember, many of these third-party games are also available on PS5, so your decision will ultimately come down to minor preferences such as UI, controller, and which console your friends prefer.
Microsoft’s system also has a feature called Smart Delivery. Because of Microsoft’s approach of offering no true exclusives for at least a year, all players who buy the Xbox One version or Xbox Series X version of a first-party Microsoft game will get the other version for free, without having to do anything to make sure they install the correct one. Xbox Game Pass also continues on Xbox Series X, and previous Game Pass titles are still free on the newer system.
Online services Image used with permission by copyright holder Subscriptions to Xbox Live Gold and PlayStation Plus were both necessary for playing the majority of online games when the Xbox One and PS4 launched in 2013, and this remains the case with the current generation of systems.
Previously, Sony offered PlayStation Plus and PlayStation Now as two different services, but has since folded them into one. The all-new, streamlined version of PlayStation Plus gives players access to online play, with three different tiers that each feature different games for a monthly fee — sort of like Netflix.
The PlayStation Plus Essential tier, which costs $10 per month, allows you to play online and grants you multiple “free” games each month. This is essentially the same thing as PS Plus during the PS4 era. There’s also PlayStation Plus Extra for $15 per month, which includes access to the benefits from the previous tier, as well as a catalog of over 400 PS4 and PS5 games. Finally, PlayStation Plus Premium costs $18 per month, and includes the benefits of the first two tiers, plus a slew of older games from the PS1, PS2, and PS3 eras.
Overall, these subscription services are nice to have, but you should look into the perks of each before deciding which is right for you.
Microsoft Microsoft has gone all-in on game streaming as well with its Xbox Cloud Gaming service. This game-streaming service allows you to play games on everything from your Xbox to a mobile phone. You can stream games from your own console to a mobile device for free, and all your purchased games on Xbox systems are eligible.
And of course, one of the main reasons to be an Xbox player is to enjoy Xbox Game Pass , a service that offers a hefty library of games, including first-party Microsoft titles. This means you’ll have access to all of Microsoft’s excellent exclusives like Halo, Forza, Sea of Thieves , and whatever else the company has in the works — all at no additional cost on day one. It’s a truly revolutionary way to go about getting games into the hands of its community. You can purchase Xbox Game Pass for $10 per month on consoles.
The service offers other perks, like bundling in Xbox Live Gold with Xbox Game Pass Ultimate, which also includes EA Play, Electronic Arts’ new game subscription service. Remember, Xbox Live Gold is the service that enables online play. Xbox Game Pass Ultimate is $15 per month and features a ton of extra perks. In short, you can get an Xbox Series X with Xbox Game Pass Ultimate and have access to hundreds of games without having to actually buy them. Plus, Game Pass works on PC and other devices, meaning you can play these games nearly anywhere. What Microsoft lacks in exclusive launch games, it makes up for with consumer-friendly services like Game Pass.
Conclusion Both the PS5 and Xbox Series X have enough features to justify buying one, but they also have downsides that you should be aware of. In terms of price, the least expensive way to get the best-looking games is by purchasing the Digital Edition PS5 for $399, though these might still be difficult to find. If you’re someone who has loved Sony’s excellent output of first-party exclusives, the PS5 should be your go-to.
If those games don’t appeal to you, and if you’re more of a fan of ubiquity and easy-to-use services, then the Xbox Series X might be the choice for you. Sure, the system doesn’t have the most robust first-party lineup just yet, but it does offer an easy way to play nearly every one of your Xbox games, from the original to the Xbox One — all in one place. Game Pass is a revolutionary way to get your hands on an ever-growing library of games, and eventually, Microsoft’s first-party studios will deliver highly anticipated titles like the next Forza, and a new Perfect Dark reboot via The Initiative.
Ultimately, right now is a great time to love video games — whichever system you choose.
Editors' Recommendations The brand new PS5 ‘Slim’ is already discounted Xbox Series X Black Friday deals: Consoles, games, and accessories The best PS5 controllers for 2023 The PS5 games with the best graphics The new 1TB PS5 has more usable storage space than the Xbox Series X Microsoft Sony Sony PlayStation Sony PlayStation 5 Versus Xbox Gaming Over at Walmart, there's currently one of the best PlayStation deals we've seen in a while with $60 off the PlayStation 5 disc console with Marvel's Spider-Man 2. Usually priced at $559, it's down to $499 as part of Walmart's early Black Friday deals. If you're looking to buy a PlayStation 5 for yourself or as a gift for someone, check it out now by hitting the button below.
The PlayStation 5 matches all the expectations you'd have of one of the latest games consoles. It's incredibly fast in every way. That means that games load fast but they also look amazing. Even simply browsing your console is speedy and efficient.
Gaming When we think of Black Friday, we think of a great time to get cool stocking stuffers and hobby essentials for our loved ones just as much as big ticket items for ourselves. This year, we're finding that early Black Friday deals are giving us the best of both worlds, especially now that Walmart's Black Friday deals have launched. For example, the official PS5 DualSense controller (one of the best controllers in its own right) is on sale now for just $49. That's $21 down from its usual $70 price point, making it a great way to help open up multiplayer gaming for yourself, a friend, or kid. Just tap the button below to shop for yours today, or keep reading if you need to know more about it.
Why you should buy a PS5 DualSense controller Sometimes we can look down on the original of something, preferring more fancy alternatives that come out later and refine the model. The PS5 DualSense controller, however, is innovative in its own right. We've praised its haptic feedback, which makes you feel the weight of your actions as you pull on the controller's triggers, since we first discussed the PS5 DualSense's innovations and we're no less happy now. Just pair the controller with a PS5 compatible headset and you're ready for multi-sensory immersion.
Gaming A notification some users received on PS4 and PS5 confirms that the platforms' integration with X -- the social media platform formally known as Twitter -- will go away next week. That means you'll no longer be able to quickly share screenshots or videos to X from the console.
"As of November 13, 2023, integration with X (formerly known as Twitter) will no longer function on PlayStation 5 and PlayStation 4 consoles," the notification (as screenshotted by Wario64) states. "This includes the ability to view any content published on X on PS5/PS4, and the ability to post and view content, trophies, and other gameplay-related activities on X directly from PS5/PS5 (or link an X account to do so)." Since the release of the PS4, people have been able to share screenshots and videos taken with the controller's Share button with social media services. Twitter historically was one of those platforms, but API changes following Elon Musk's buying of the platform and rebranding to X have interfered with its integration with many platforms. Now, it seems that Sony has decided that it's best just to rid PlayStation platforms of any X integration whatsoever. PlayStation has not publicly commented on why it's removing this feature yet, but we've contacted them for comment and will update this story when we get a response.
If there are any screenshots or videos on your PS4 or PS5 that you want to get onto X, you have until November 13 to do so. After that, Apple, Discord, Spotify, Twitch, and YouTube will be the only services one can link their PlayStation account to.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
