Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Outdoors Features How the NFL’s on-player RFID tags are quietly revolutionizing football By Drew Prindle Close The amount of data that gets captured during an NFL game these days is absolutely mind-blowing.
Deep stats, deeper strategy A new dimension of play There’s so much that it’s almost hard to comprehend. But John Pollard, vice president of business development for Zebra Technologies , the official on-field player-tracking provider of the NFL, paints a pretty good picture: “Every player that participates in a game, whether they’re on the sidelines or on the field, has RFID tags in their shoulder pads.” he explained in an interview with Digital Trends. “Most players have two tags — one on each shoulder pad, sometimes with a third one between the shoulder blades. All the field officials are also tagged, as well as things like the pylons and the yardsticks on the field. The ball itself has an RFID tag as well. And all these tags communicate with a series of receiver boxes that are permanently installed around the perimeter of all the stadiums in the NFL.” “The player tags send a signal to the receiver boxes 12 times per second.” he continues. “The ball itself blinks 25 times a second. And so with that information, we can find out where they are on the field, within a couple of inches of accuracy. From there, we can tell a player’s proximity from their own teammates and the opposing players, and we can also capture their speed for an independent play or a series of plays. On the ball, we’re tracking velocity and rotational information as well, which allows us to mathematically determine the height of throws, punts, and kicks.” In other words, the NFL tracks real-time location, speed, and acceleration data for every player, every object, and every play, on every inch of the field — and it’s been doing so for every regular season football game for the past seven years.
But here’s the kicker: Despite the fact that the league has been capturing this data for the better part of a decade, we’re only now starting to see how it’s changing the game.
Deep stats, deeper strategy All this data collection has unlocked a completely new generation of stats.
 It’s far beyond the basic stuff you’re probably used to, like touchdowns, rushing yards, and completed passes. Nowadays, they track all that stuff, plus speed, acceleration, location, and time. But really, those raw measurements are just the tip of the iceberg. There’s a whole host of derivative statistics that can be calculated by combining and correlating all these data points — things like Average Intended Air Yards , Expected Completion Percentage , and Completion Percentage Above Expectation.
 It’s a football nerd’s dream.
It also allows the NFL to measure things that were previously impossible to quantify — like aggressiveness. Prior to all this sensor-driven data, a quarterback’s aggressiveness was a completely subjective quality with no real significance. Now, it has a clear-cut definition: It’s “the amount of passing attempts a quarterback makes that are into tight coverage, where there is a defender within one yard or less of the receiver at the time of pass completion or incompletion.” Such a stat would be impossible to define without exact time, location, and distance information, but thanks to Zebra’s sensor tech, this is being tracked and updated on every passing play a QB makes.
“It’s being incorporated into not only the strength and conditioning component of our training, but also for coming back from injury.” It doesn’t take a big leap of the imagination to see how this data might affect certain aspects of the game. For example, it’s easy to see how deeper, more granular, and more abundant statistics on player performance might change what scouts look for in prospective recruits, or help a coach make better decisions on what to focus on during practice.
But as New England Patriots linebacker Brandon Copeland explains, training and scouting are merely the most obvious uses of data. Teams and players are using it for far, far more than just performance tracking.
Abbie Parr/Getty Images “It’s being incorporated into not only the strength and conditioning component of our training, but also for coming back from injury,” he tells Digital Trends. “That’s another thing that’s really big. Let’s say I just tweaked my hamstring. When I feel like I’ve recovered and I’m getting back up to speed, I can literally go do a sprint to test that. When I walk off the field, there’s somebody sitting there that can tell me exactly how fast I was going. So if they say, ‘Oh, well, you’re a little slower than you were two weeks ago when you had no hamstring injury,’ then I know there still may be something there that we need to to address. That kind of information is definitely vital from a player’s perspective.” “So, this information doesn’t just serve one purpose,” he continues. “Guys pick and choose; they use all this data for different reasons. For some guys, it’s more of an injury-prevention/maintenance thing. For others, it’s a training thing. For other guys, it’s more of a ‘hey, let’s compete! I’m faster than you!’ kind of thing.” A new dimension of play Perhaps the most profound change of all, though, isn’t how data is altering the routines of players, coaches, and teams. It’s how data literacy — the ability to access, interpret, understand, and apply data-driven insights — is quickly becoming a make-or-break skill for players. Much like tackling or kicking field goals, using data is a skill that can be learned and improved on, and the more adept a player is at leveraging data, the more likely they are to succeed. Increasingly, it’s what separates the rookies from the veterans.
Ameer Basheer/Unsplash “Rookie year is a whirlwind,” says Copeland, “especially as an undrafted free agent. There’s a lot of stuff going on. You’re trying to develop a routine, learn the playbook, and really just make the team. And there are so many resources out there that you could just swim in over your head. At first, you’re just kind of going with the flow, but at a certain point, you figure things out and start to really understand the data. You realize that this resource exists in practice, it exists in spring training, and all the different things that we’re doing. A lot of veteran players take it into account.” Copeland expects this to get easier as the technology matures. It’s taken the NFL years to build up not only the technological infrastructure to capture the data, but also the distribution pipelines — which are still being figured out. The league hasn’t quite found its footing when it comes to making all this data accessible and easy to understand for players.
“Right now, you have to go ask for that information.” says Copeland. “It’s always in the coach’s hands. But if we can encourage the coaches and staff to try to deliver that information to the players, if we can continue to withdraw the barriers of access to the information, I think that will be revolutionary in the long run.” “I think this is the next evolution,” adds Pollard. “The players in the NFL now, they’re fluent in technology. They’re fluent in information. And they take care of the bodies like athletes have never before.
Editors' Recommendations Turf tech: The surprisingly sophisticated science of the lowest part of the game Better, Faster, Stronger Features Super Bowl Outdoors EcoFlow, a manufacturer of portable energy solutions, has announced the launch of the Delta 2 Max -- an eco-friendly solar generator that could replace your current gas generator. The device clocks in at 2,048 watts and should deliver enough power to keep your home running for two days as an emergency backup (or many more if you’re using it as an off-grid power source).
The original Delta Max was a popular item for outdoor adventures, as it could connect to the existing lineup of portable EcoFlow solar panels to juice up gadgets while out in the backcountry. That legacy continues with the Delta 2 Max, which features an upgraded lithium iron phosphate (LFP) battery for a longer life cycle and faster charging.
Outdoors Warm weather is here, and so is grilling season. Now is as good a time as any to set out in search of one of the best outdoor grills, and it’s never a bad time to keep an eye out for a discount on one as well. Whether you’re a grilling beginner ready for some burgers with the family or a seasoned pro looking to host summer gatherings around one of the best smart grills and smokers, we’ve tracked down all of the details you need to land a deal on a grill that’s right for your needs. Read onward for more details.
Everdure CUBE charcoal grill — $150, was $199 The Everdure CUBE charcoal grill is a unique little grill that can truly go almost anywhere with you. It’s lightweight and only 17-inches long, yet still can handle almost any grilling challenge a griller on the go could hope to throw at it. It has a built-in heat protection shield and chrome handles that remain cool while cooking, and the removable charcoal tray offers easy cleanup when you’re finished at the campground or on the beach. Wherever you intend to do some grilling this summer, the Everdure CUBE charcoal grill is a great option as a copilot.
Outdoors The best electric bikes have come a long way in recent years and we don't just mean in terms of the miles you travel. With technology changing quickly, there are also an increasing number of electric bike deals around and we've picked out some of the very best. Electric bikes are a great way of getting around more easily and without necessarily needing to use as much stamina as a regular bike. Below, you'll find fantastic e-bike bike deals from many different retailers. There'll be something for every need here. Let's take a look at them.
Jasion EB5 Electric Bike -- $430, was $750 With a 350w brushless motor, the Jasion EB5 Electric Bike can achieve a top speed of 20 MPH with a range of up to 25-40 miles per charge. It has four working modes with a PAS mode where the motor assists with a moderate amount of power as you pedal, along with a Pure Electric Mode, a Pedal Mode, and a Booster Mode where the bike assist on hills and anywhere else you might be struggling. 26-inch puncture-resistant tires provide excellent durability while there's a high-strength front fork suspension, Shimano 7-speed gears, dual lights, and an LCD display. The latter offers controls for adjustable backlight brightness with one of five levels, along with mode controls.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
