Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch In partnership with Home Deals Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Live in power with the Anker SOLIX F3800, its latest evolutionary power station Anker Live in power. That’s the slogan behind Anker SOLIX, a brand dedicated to bringing affordable, accessible power to everyone to boost energy independence. They want to help create a more sustainable mission, which, quite frankly, is a commendable goal. But the key to evolutionary goals such as this is action. What is Anker SOLIX doing to set itself apart from the competition, and more importantly, how is it creating that energy independence it so justly yearns for? The answer is with its industry-defining products, and it just so happens there’s another on the way: The Anker SOLIX F3800 portable power station. It’s the first portable power station to market that supports AC coupling. It’s also the most accessible home power system to date, with a 6,000-watt AC output and a 120-volt/240-volt dual-voltage solution all tucked into one unit. Plus, the 3.84 kilowatt-hour high capacity that’s expandable up to 53.88 kilowatt-hours adds a lot more versatility and capabilities to the equation.
Why the Anker SOLIX F3800 stands above the rest Anker SOLIX F3800: The most accessible home power system, probably ever Of course, none of these specifications mean much without knowing what the power station can do. Yes, we’ve covered power stations like this before, but it certainly helps to have some more specific scenarios to draw one. With today’s power becoming more and more unreliable — you never know when your power might go out or for what reason — it’s necessary to have a backup system in place. With the right system, you can keep your necessities available, from a refrigerator or freezer to a fan and climate controls. There are many power-dependent things in our homes that make our lives so much better. Without power, the modern lifestyle can descend into rather unpleasant territories. Imagine a home without AC or some kind of fan in a hot, humid area. Or trying to see what you’re doing in the dark when there’s no power and no lighting available. How would you cook without power? A power station like the Anker SOLIX F3800 is just what you need to keep things energized.
Why the Anker SOLIX F3800 stands above the rest Anker Time and time again, we see new portable power stations and power solutions entering the market. You could even say it’s the golden age, with no shortage of options to choose from and in so many formats, form factors, and capacities from small to big. But when you’re talking about a sustainable all-in-one solution for your home to use during emergencies and real-world scenarios, well, there really only are a handful that fit the bill. The Anker SOLIX F3800 is one of those.
It’s a sustainable and reliable system that also serves as an excellent replacement for traditional gas-powered generators. Bear in mind that gas generators are noisy, they produce emissions, and you absolutely cannot use them inside a home or sealed area. The Anker SOLIX F3800 is the exact opposite of that because it doesn’t produce emissions and it utilizes electricity above all. You can power everything in your RV, small living residence, or most things in a family home, including appliances. The Anker F3800 can also plug directly into an inlet box to replace a gas generator, allowing it to power an entire house, which is a capability many other portable power stations don’t offer.
The 6,000-watt and 120-volt/240-volt dual voltage output is impressive and ultra-convenient, as you’ll never be wanting for power in a pinch. Moreover, the 3.84 kilowatt-hour capacity is more than enough for most applications, but even if you need more power, you can always expand up to 53.88 kilowatt-hours total. Plus, in addition to being the most accessible home power system — with easy installation and affordable pricing — it doubles as an EV charger, and you don’t need any grounding accessories to use it for that either.
The suitcase-style design with built-in wheels means it’s easy to move around your home or property, and if you need to stow it — like to store it in an RV or van — it’s super easy to do that, too. As mentioned, you can directly charge your EV or power your entire RV while on the road via the NEMA 15-40 ports.
There are multiple ways to charge the Anker SOLIX F3800, too. You can charge via standard AC and DC outlets and via solar when connected to panels.
Learn More Anker SOLIX F3800: The most accessible home power system, probably ever Anker It’s portable, it’s functional, and it has a reliable, high capacity. But when paired with the Anker SOLIX Home Power Panel , you can easily tap into its power from within your home, much like you would any traditional backup power system or generator. Power outages and blackouts won’t ever be a problem for you again, and just as it’s possible to expand the capacity in a portable format, you can expand the Anker SOLIX F3800 when it’s connected to your home, as well. You always have the option to add more capacity up to the maximum.
Moreover, it’s the first portable power station to support AC coupling, which means it blocks out DC voltage when necessary, but also allows it to be used with solar panels — even those mounted on your roof — when connected through the Anker SOLIX Home Power Panel. You can truly harness the power of solar energy and use it to save on utilities and keep the power going during an outage. With the cost of the average electricity bill rising exponentially, that alone is worth the buy-in.
Are you ready to live in power? Anker The Anker SOLIX F3800 portable power station will be available October 9th, 2023 starting at 7 A.M. (PST). When the Kickstarter campaign launches , you’ll also be able to order several accessories, including the Anker SOLIX Home Power Panel, expansion batteries, and solar panels – they’ll be available as exclusive bundles. Normally $3,999, you’ll be able to order the Anker SOLIX F3800 for up to 45% off. This portable power station allows you to energize your home with virtually no limitations. We are witnessing the future of modular power, folks. What a great time to be alive.
Learn More Editors' Recommendations BLUETTI rolls out Black Friday specials with a brand-new power station This Ninja Blender doubles as a Vitamix & NutriBullet, and it’s $20 off Jackery’s Solar Generator 1000 Plus and 300 Plus: next-gen versatile energy Save $300 on Growatt’s Latest INFINITY 1300 Portable Power Station, Right Now EcoFlow Innovates: RIVER 2 Pro Is the Best Portable Power Station Under 1kWh Smart Home Portable Power Stations Deals This content was produced in partnership with Bluetti.
When it comes to preparing for power-related events, like outages, situations where you might need portable power options, and general usage, you really need some flexible and versatile solutions at your disposal. The more manageable the gear, the more opportunities you have to adapt to current events. For example, let's say your power goes out for a few days to a week. Having a portable power solution will certainly help, but also one that can be recharged via solar energy, reliably, with just a panel or two, will significantly improve your quality of life during that period. Even if the power doesn't come back on in time, you can recharge the station to keep fueling your modern living needs. It doesn't just stop there. Yes, it's great to have backup options in a time of need, but it's also great to just have a handy solution for whatever arises. Maybe you need to power your tools to do some work in the backyard or a workshop, but don't want to run an extension cord? Boom, the portable power solution will help. What if you have a music gig coming up in a remote park or location but need to power your instruments, microphone, and lighting? Cue the portable power solution. There are a lot of different scenarios where having a power device can change the game.
That's precisely what Bluetti is offering with its AC300 and B300 expansion batteries, which offer 3,072 watt-hours of power per battery. You can recharge them via a traditional wall socket, car outlet, or lead-acid battery, but also via solar with a 2,400-watt maximum loading scale thanks to integrated smart MPPT or Maximum Power Point Tracking technology. They're portable, lightweight, and modular, as you can expand the system with more batteries at any time to increase capacity. Plus, you can use them to power nearly everything, from electronics and small appliances to lighting and beyond. To learn a little more about why they're so versatile together and as a system, keep reading.
Buy Now Power When and Where You Need It Most Deals This content was produced in partnership with Growatt.
As convenient as today's mobile devices can be, our over-reliance on electronics is not without problems; namely, having to keep all those mobile gadgets charged when you're on the move. Laptops, smartphones, tablets, smartwatches, wireless headphones, and handheld gaming systems (and this list only goes on) all require regular charging, and if you don't like being tied to a power outlet, then a portable power station is what you need. Growatt, an expert maker of smart home solar power and energy storage equipment, has just the solution in its new VITA 550, a compact and highly portable power station that's the perfect solution for keeping all your gadgets juiced up on the go. It was just released at the CES 2023 trade show with the standard price of $529. If you pre-order it before January 31, you can score a $100 early-bird discount that lets you grab one for $429 for a limited time. Between January 10 and January 31, 2023, you can also use coupon code GroVita550 to get an additional $30 off, bringing the price down to $399.
Pre-Order Now As a solar leader, Growatt has 11 years of experience in the new energy industry, and has supported over three million individuals and families. Growatt's newest product, the VITA 550 features some impressive specs on that front. For example, the 240 watt input support is one of the highest solar intake options in the 500 watt-hour capacity range. It also charges super fast thanks to the 2.5-hour rated charging times via solar, thanks to the high solar input. Most importantly, the 99% MPPT technology delivers a very low conversion loss making the solar generation for the system much more efficient and capable.
We've all run into the situation of needing to charge one or more of our portable electronic devices, only to be nowhere near a power source. It's one of the perennial problems of living in a tech-driven digital age. It's no mystery, then, why portable charging solutions have become so popular, ranging from pocket-sized power banks to large generator-like power stations capable of powering laptops and smaller kitchen appliances. The new Growatt VITA 550 falls somewhere closer to the middle of that spectrum, striking a nice balance between portability and power storage capacity.
Exploring the Growatt VITA 550 in more detail Deals This content was produced in partnership with BLUETTI.
Last year, at CES 2022, BLUETTI regaled everyone in attendance with some fantastic announcements, introducing the world's first sodium-ion solar generator in the NA300 and B480, but also with "The Apex," the long-awaited AC500 portable power station. A pioneer in the clean energy storage industry, and purveyor of excellent portable power solutions, BLUETTI is back at it again this year. Only this time, the company aims to redefine home energy with several innovative offerings, namely through modular energy storage solutions that can sustain an entire household. Of course, this is on top of BLUETTI's existing successes and its diverse range of energy storage and portable power solutions. Let's take a closer look to see what's in store for us this go-round.
Learn More Modular energy storage for the entire home: EP900 and B500 Built to deliver all-in-one energy storage for the whole home, connecting directly to any solar system with a 9-kilowatt max solar input, and connecting to any household AC wiring, the EP900 and B500 combo features a lot of power packed into a small form factor. They feature a 9-kilowatt pure sine wave output with a fully modular and expandable capacity -- allowing you to meet your family's power needs precisely. Starting at 9 kilowatt-hours with a single B500 LFP battery you can extend that up to 39.6 kilowatt-hours with 16 batteries. What's the significance? The EP900 can keep an entire house running during an outage, with minimal concessions made, for up to several days.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
