Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Deals Bluetti’s AC300 and B300 Combo Provides True Power Versatility and Reliability By Briley Kenney Close This content was produced in partnership with Bluetti.
Power When and Where You Need It Most Bluetti AC300 + B300 Deal: Upgrade Your Backup Power System When it comes to preparing for power-related events, like outages, situations where you might need portable power options, and general usage, you really need some flexible and versatile solutions at your disposal. The more manageable the gear, the more opportunities you have to adapt to current events. For example, let’s say your power goes out for a few days to a week. Having a portable power solution will certainly help, but also one that can be recharged via solar energy, reliably, with just a panel or two, will significantly improve your quality of life during that period. Even if the power doesn’t come back on in time, you can recharge the station to keep fueling your modern living needs. It doesn’t just stop there. Yes, it’s great to have backup options in a time of need, but it’s also great to just have a handy solution for whatever arises. Maybe you need to power your tools to do some work in the backyard or a workshop, but don’t want to run an extension cord? Boom, the portable power solution will help. What if you have a music gig coming up in a remote park or location but need to power your instruments, microphone, and lighting? Cue the portable power solution. There are a lot of different scenarios where having a power device can change the game.
That’s precisely what Bluetti is offering with its AC300 and B300 expansion batteries, which offer 3,072 watt-hours of power per battery. You can recharge them via a traditional wall socket, car outlet, or lead-acid battery, but also via solar with a 2,400-watt maximum loading scale thanks to integrated smart MPPT or Maximum Power Point Tracking technology. They’re portable, lightweight, and modular, as you can expand the system with more batteries at any time to increase capacity. Plus, you can use them to power nearly everything, from electronics and small appliances to lighting and beyond. To learn a little more about why they’re so versatile together and as a system, keep reading.
Buy Now Power When and Where You Need It Most Image used with permission by copyright holder If you’re looking to snag one of the world’s best off-grid power stations, as a van dweller, explorer, or homeowner — in need of an emergency backup power supply — one of the top options is Bluetti’s combo that includes the AC300 power station with B300 backup batteries. Together, they form a highly capable and expandable power solution, for home or away, with a multitude of ways to charge the devices, and a system that doubles as a UPS (Uninterruptible Power Supply) home backup system. If the power flickers or goes out, your gear will remain powered on, like your work laptop, so you can save your work and shut down, or continue working if that’s what you need to do. Starting with a 3,072 watt-hour capacity, plus an additional 3,072 watt-hours per battery, the system is expandable up to 12,288 watt-hours total across four B300 batteries. That means you can fully customize the capacity, expanding at any time when you realize you need more power, meeting a variety of needs. For example, with a single B300 battery attached, the AC300 can run a 1,500-watt heat for 1.7 hours, or a 1,000-watt washing machine for 2.6 hours.
The LiFePO4 battery technology is reliable, long-lasting, and greener than comparable types of batteries like NMC and lead-acid batteries commonly seen in some other power stations. It supports up to 3,500 lifecycles (charge and discharge) with up to seven ways to charge it back up. You can charge via AC, solar, a generator, lead-acid batteries, dual AC, AC and solar together, and via car ports. It supports a 2,400-watt max solar input, with 5,400-watt maximum fast dual charging while connected to AC and solar simultaneously. The inverter can adjust the charging rate from 1,800 watts to 3,000 watts via outlets, allowing for faster recharge times and better power delivery. All of it makes for a highly capable solution that you can use at home, while living out of a van or vehicle, or even just camping.
Bluetti AC300 + B300 Deal: Upgrade Your Backup Power System BLUETTI The good news is that if all of this sounds interesting to you, and we do recommend that everyone has a backup power option, you can grab the Bluetti AC300 and B300 in various bundles for a great deal. Starting at $2,999, normally $3,898, you can get the base combo which includes an AC300 power station and B300 backup battery , and that saves you $899. You can also add a PV350 solar panel to that combo for $600, normally $769. For $4,998, normally $6,197, you can grab the AC300 power station with two B300 extra batteries — that’s a discount of $1,199, by the way. This is a time-limited offer that will end on March 30, so if you’re interested, take advantage now before it’s too late.
Buy Now Editors' Recommendations BLUETTI rolls out Black Friday specials with a brand-new power station Live in power with the Anker SOLIX F3800, its latest evolutionary power station Jackery’s Solar Generator 1000 Plus and 300 Plus: next-gen versatile energy EcoFlow Innovates: RIVER 2 Pro Is the Best Portable Power Station Under 1kWh Growatt VITA 550 portable power station keeps all your devices charged on the go Smart Home Portable Power Stations Deals This content was produced in partnership with BLUETTI.
Last year, at CES 2022, BLUETTI regaled everyone in attendance with some fantastic announcements, introducing the world's first sodium-ion solar generator in the NA300 and B480, but also with "The Apex," the long-awaited AC500 portable power station. A pioneer in the clean energy storage industry, and purveyor of excellent portable power solutions, BLUETTI is back at it again this year. Only this time, the company aims to redefine home energy with several innovative offerings, namely through modular energy storage solutions that can sustain an entire household. Of course, this is on top of BLUETTI's existing successes and its diverse range of energy storage and portable power solutions. Let's take a closer look to see what's in store for us this go-round.
Learn More Modular energy storage for the entire home: EP900 and B500 Built to deliver all-in-one energy storage for the whole home, connecting directly to any solar system with a 9-kilowatt max solar input, and connecting to any household AC wiring, the EP900 and B500 combo features a lot of power packed into a small form factor. They feature a 9-kilowatt pure sine wave output with a fully modular and expandable capacity -- allowing you to meet your family's power needs precisely. Starting at 9 kilowatt-hours with a single B500 LFP battery you can extend that up to 39.6 kilowatt-hours with 16 batteries. What's the significance? The EP900 can keep an entire house running during an outage, with minimal concessions made, for up to several days.
Deals This content was produced in partnership with Jackery.
It's here, and now it's time to save big on portable power stations and everything that goes with them, like solar panels and beyond. Why is this such a big deal? Because portable power stations, big and small, can be quite pricey, but there's no denying how incredibly practical and convenient they are. No brand has had more time in the market than Jackery, with loads of portable power options ready to choose from. Of course, the Black Friday deals mean you can save quite a bit, with Jackery offering over $1,000 off and one of the biggest discounts ever! That's not the only thing to get excited about. Jackery is also hosting its 10th Anniversary event, which comes with a plethora of giveaways. To learn more about what's going on and to see some of the fantastic deals, keep reading.
Deals This content was produced in partnership with Jackery.
As far as portable power solutions go, few brands have been in the market as long as Jackery, especially since Jackery's 10th Anniversary celebration is happening right now. But while that's impressive, what's more exciting is that Jackery's Black Friday deals will soon be live too, from November 24 to November 28. During that time, they're going to offer the biggest discount ever on Jackery solutions -- up to $1,080 off. It's libations all around, and for good reason. With the holiday shopping events and Jackery's 10th Anniversary wedged together, a lot is going on that you'll want to be involved with. For example, Jackery's Crazy Monday Giveaway will feature an unmissable mega giveaway -- and we do mean mega -- with prizes worth up to $250,000 in total value. Yeah, we know, it's a lot to take in, so keep reading to learn some of the finer details about the Black Friday sale and Jackery's Anniversary event.
First, let's talk about the giveaway, which will be live on Jackery's official website and YouTube channel. They'll be picking winners during their livestream starting November 28. We don’t know everything they'll be giving away, but it will be a total of $250,000 in prizes. Jackery has teamed up with Black Series to give away camper vans. Plus, there will be money back opportunities for Jackery orders placed during Black Friday, and many, many more prizes beyond that! Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
