Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Deals Bluetti’s EP600 is better, lighter, and more modular than ever By Briley Kenney Close This content was produced in partnership with Bluetti.
Bluetti’s EP600: Serving many roles When is the EP600 coming and what’s the cost? Dear reader: Let’s discuss portable power stations for a minute. It’s high time we all started taking them a little more seriously. They’re excellent stand-ins, or alternatives really, to traditional gas generators. But unlike traditional generators, they’re all-electric, so they’re eco-friendly and produce no emissions, which makes them both safer to use and opens up a wide range of possibilities. You can use them inside a home or residence to power your gear, for example, which is not something you should ever do with gas generators — standard generators cannot be used in enclosed spaces. Another important point is that they’ve grown remarkably capable, more than anything that came before, and with its latest launch, the EP600 power station, Bluetti is upping the game even more.
The EP600 solar battery system and portable power station is disruptive, to say the least. It’s smaller and weighs less than previous iterations, but it’s packed to the chassis with power. It has a 6000-watt bi-directional inverter for AC input and output, allowing it to run nearly any household appliances, and via 230-volt to 400-volt options. It also supports a 6,000-watt solar input to keep the station charged, and anything connected to it, via renewable energy. As a solar system, it provides a built-in backup battery solution for conserving power as well — an absolutely essential feature when off the grid. If you have even a passing interest in the technology, you have to read on to learn more — it’s equally fascinating and impressive.
Learn More Bluetti’s EP600: Serving many roles Image used with permission by copyright holder Typically, when you have a portable power station, you also need a lot of additional accessories, including backup batteries, solar panels, and much more — such as an inverter or MPPT controller to optimize solar energy. That is not the case at all with Bluetti’s EP600, which is both a portable power station and a solar battery system.
So, it serves as a standalone power source when you need one and a home energy storage system, but also a fully-functional solar battery solution. You can simply connect solar panels — up to 6,000 watts — and the hybrid inverter system within the belly does all of the legwork. You don’t need a separate inverter or MPPT. The energy can then be used to charge the station for later, power any connected devices, or keep the power on during an outage — effectively powering your most important home appliances, as well. The EP600 is meant to pair with B500 expansion batteries, each bringing 4,960-watt-hours to the table, with a maximum supported 16 battery modules to reach a total 79.3k-watt-hour capacity. That’s enough power to cover all of your home needs — or off-grid needs even — for a week or more.
But because it’s modular and lightweight, it can be used anywhere, highlighting one of the biggest and best advantages of a portable power station. You can use it off-grid while living in a cabin or out in the wilderness. You can use it on the road, whether in a standard vehicle or an RV. You can even use it around your home, like in your backyard to power electronics, tools, and anything else that might need power.
When is the EP600 coming and what’s the cost? Image used with permission by copyright holder The final prices are still being ironed out, but the thing to note is that a highly recommended combo, which includes the EP600 and two B500 batteries, will cost less than €9500, as revealed by James Ray, the marketing director of Bluetti. That super useful bundle increases the total capacity of the system exponentially, and while you can always add more batteries later, two is plenty to cover pretty much anything the average consumer could possibly need. This is also what makes Bluetti’s solutions fully modular and highly customizable. You can expand capacities and capabilities too, to meet the needs of your lifestyle and that of your family’s power requirements wherever applicable.
Starting in November, pre-orders will become available on Bluetti’s official website. You can head over to the site now to sign-up for the latest news and updates, including a chance to nab early bird pricing! Bluetti first showed off the EP600 and B500 at IFA 2022 in Berlin earlier this month. During that time, we got our first glimpse at the new tech and what it can do, but more will follow. Stay tuned, because the EP600 is just getting started, as is Bluetti. Bear in mind, because the EP600+B500 system is three-phase — 230-volt to 400-volt — it’s not relevant to countries that use 100 to 120 utility grid voltages. Those in the United States and Japan don’t fret, as another secret whole-house power solution from Bluetti is in the works.
One thing is certain: We all need to start taking portable power stations, namely Bluetti’s EP600, much more seriously. They’ve taken portable power to a whole new level, which means energy solutions are bigger and better than ever.
Learn More Editors' Recommendations BLUETTI rolls out Black Friday specials with a brand-new power station Live in power with the Anker SOLIX F3800, its latest evolutionary power station Bluetti’s AC300 and B300 Combo Provides True Power Versatility and Reliability BLUETTI at CES 2023: Back in black with whole-home power backup solutions Jackery’s Black Friday event has lots in store, including giveaways and huge discounts Smart Home Portable Power Stations Deals This content was produced in partnership with Bluetti.
What's as scary, or scarier in some cases, than a crazed and masked killer chasing you down on a cold autumn night? No power, or losing access to a reliable power supply, especially in today's hyper-digital world. You won't be able to upload family photos. You won't be able to see what everyone else is doing for Halloween. You won't be able to watch spine-chilling movies or warm up with a mug of hot cocoa. That is, unless, you have a backup solution, also known as a portable power station. And wouldn't you know it, Bluetti is offering a slew of bootiful and haunted Halloween deals on power stations, extra batteries, and solar panels -- the latter so you can charge up your devices with renewable energy. From October 20 to November 5, you have an incredible chance to save, and fill up your trick-or-treat bags with more than just candy! Some examples of what's in treat include Bluetti's EB3A portable power station for $209 -- normally $239 -- which is a spooky savings of $30. The AC200P powerful station starts at $1,399 -- normally $1,599 -- which is $200 off during the Halloween event. Then there are combo deals that include everything you need, such as the bundle with an AC200MAX plus two PV350 solar panels for $3,199, which has been slashed and ripped by $398. Of course, that's just the start, there are a lot of sweet treats available if you're into portable power stations, or honestly, if you just want to have a power solution anywhere -- you can use them in your backyard, at a campground, on the road, or even off-grid. Check out the sale below, or keep reading for some more details on the event, and what's on the chopping block.
Creep the Sale Sweet Bluetti deals that are as good as free candy Outdoors It's not often we see Prime Day deals on bigger battery banks like the Jackery Portable Power Station Explorer 300, which is a shame considering how useful they have become in the past few years for those who like going camping or who may have to deal with power outages. Luckily, you can pick up this impressive power station from Amazon for $210, rather than the $350 retail price it's usually going for, which is a significant $140 discount.
Why you should buy the Jackery Portable Power Station Explorer 300 The Jackery Portable Power Station Explorer 300 has a lot in common with the Jackery Explorer 1000, with the main difference being a smaller capacity, so if you want a more in-depth review, it's worth checking that one out. Even with the smaller capacity, the Explorer 300 still has 293Wh of backup charge, roughly the same as 30 phone recharges or 40 hours of playing on a Nintendo Switch, which, as you can imagine, is a lot. It also comes with many ports: two AC plugs, a PD 60W USB-C, two USB-As, and a 12-volt car output, so you have a lot of versatility in how you want to charge your gear. There's a thick DC input to charge the Explorer 300 up to 80% in an impressive two hours from a wall outlet, and even better, you can use it while it charges.
Deals This content was produced in partnership with Zendure.
It is effectively the year of the portable power station, and for good reason. In a time when grid-based power is increasingly unreliable, people are looking for alternatives, but for all-purpose use and not just for their homes. That includes during road trips, while camping, and even while living completely off-grid, whether in a van or a small cabin. While there are many such products on the market, one of the newest is Zendure's SuperBase V, which first made an appearance at IFA 2022 in Berlin -- from September 2-6. After making a big splash during the trade show, it will soon be available to order through Kickstarter, starting September 29th.
But what does the Zendure SuperBase V have to offer, and how does it set itself apart from the competition? The SuperBase V is a Home Power Storage System, and with it, Zendure aims to provide true power independence with zero compromises. With a satellite expansion module, solar power, and paired with AC outlet power, the system can be charged up to a maximum of 6.6-kolwatts. It can operate as both a generator, or portable power station, and a zero-downtime UPS system to keep the power on during an outage. You'll have plenty of time to save your work if the power trips, for example, or you can keep gaming and get to a save spot if you're in the middle of playing. As a more serious example, critical medical equipment can remain powered on such as a CPAP machine or breathing apparatus. Of course, there's a lot more to it, which you can read about below. You can head over to Zendure's website to learn more too.
Learn More Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
