Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Deals BLUETTI at CES 2023: Back in black with whole-home power backup solutions By Briley Kenney Close Image used with permission by copyright holder This content was produced in partnership with BLUETTI.
Modular energy storage for the entire home: EP900 and B500 Modular energy storage for any occasion: AC500 and B300S BLUETTI’s existing energy products: What you need, when you need it Last year, at CES 2022 , BLUETTI regaled everyone in attendance with some fantastic announcements, introducing the world’s first sodium-ion solar generator in the NA300 and B480, but also with “The Apex,” the long-awaited AC500 portable power station. A pioneer in the clean energy storage industry, and purveyor of excellent portable power solutions, BLUETTI is back at it again this year. Only this time, the company aims to redefine home energy with several innovative offerings, namely through modular energy storage solutions that can sustain an entire household. Of course, this is on top of BLUETTI’s existing successes and its diverse range of energy storage and portable power solutions. Let’s take a closer look to see what’s in store for us this go-round.
Learn More Modular energy storage for the entire home: EP900 and B500 Image used with permission by copyright holder Built to deliver all-in-one energy storage for the whole home, connecting directly to any solar system with a 9-kilowatt max solar input, and connecting to any household AC wiring, the EP900 and B500 combo features a lot of power packed into a small form factor. They feature a 9-kilowatt pure sine wave output with a fully modular and expandable capacity — allowing you to meet your family’s power needs precisely. Starting at 9 kilowatt-hours with a single B500 LFP battery you can extend that up to 39.6 kilowatt-hours with 16 batteries. What’s the significance? The EP900 can keep an entire house running during an outage, with minimal concessions made, for up to several days.
By way of comparison, most residential power systems lack inverters or MPPT support for solar solutions, but the EP900 does not. It has a built-in hybrid inverter, capable of providing mains power at 120 volts or 240 volts of AC power, and it can be topped up with mains power when it needs to charge. It also acts as an uninterruptible power supply (UPS) that switches near-instantly to power, in 10 milliseconds, after the power grid fails or your main energy source becomes unavailable. That means there’s no data loss if you’re working or using electronics, and emergency or life-critical equipment will experience no service interruptions. All the while, the BLUETTI mobile app allows real-time monitoring, settings adjustments, and updates for what’s going on with your power system. The EP900 and B500 system is easy to install in any home, both indoors and out. Its modular flexibility also means you can adjust the system anytime by adding or removing components. If you realize you need more power during an outage you can add an extra battery or two later.
The EP900 is BLUETTI’s newest whole-home power system and is set to launch in 2023 in the U.S..
See System Modular energy storage for any occasion: AC500 and B300S Image used with permission by copyright holder Originally featured on Indiegogo, this marvelous combo broke BLUETTI records — the campaign raised $11 million across more than 4,000 backers. The AC500 is a 16-outlet solar generator that delivers 5 kilowatts of pure sine wave power, enough to handle anything from home blackouts to extended camping trips out in the wilds. You can charge the system via 8-kilowatt AC and solar dual inputs, and when paired with one to six B300S LFP batteries you can extend the maximum capacity up to 18,432 watt-hours. But that’s on top of an already powerful system, at 3,072 watt-hours. The AC500 plus a single B300S battery will last for up to one full day — at 3 kilowatt-hours of electricity per day, and up to two days with two batteries, four days with four, and six days with six.
It also offers pass-through charging, mobile app connectivity, UPS support, and much more. But split-phase availability means that when two AC500 sets are connected in a series, the system provides a 240-volt to 10,000-watt output, plenty to sustain even heavy-duty appliances in an outage. You can keep your refrigerator running, cook some food, and pretty much do whatever you need to until the power is back on. Pair it with solar panels, and you can continue charging the system even when there’s no electricity to be had from the grid.
See System BLUETTI’s existing energy products: What you need, when you need it While these announcements are certainly innovative and exciting, we can’t forget that BLUETTI already offers a host of exceptional power solutions, from the portable generators in the EB series, to the AX200MAX, AC200P, EP500, and EP500Pro that make up its earlier, yet just as capable energy greats. In BLUETTI’s arsenal alone, people have the option to find precisely the power solution they need to meet just about any scenario. Traveling in an RV or van? Portable power solutions pair nicely with solar panels for modular, anywhere-use electricity. Worried about losing power during a hurricane or other natural event? Stock up on expandable power solutions with UPS support to keep your home, and family, safe. It’s all here, all reasonable, and all reliable.
If there’s something we’ve learned from BLUETTI’s CES appearance last year, and this year, it’s that BLUETTI’s R&D team will continue pushing the boundaries of what portable and modular power can deliver — maybe even to the point where no one will be concerned about emergent energy issues.
Learn More Editors' Recommendations Best smart plug Black Friday deals: Get connected from just $10 The best early Keurig Black Friday deals — from $35 Best Waterpik Black Friday deals on water flossers and toothbrushes The best KitchenAid mixer Black Friday deals (and accessories from $17) The best Vitamix blender Black Friday deals — from just $125 Smart Home CES 2023 Portable Power Stations Deals Vacuums are expensive. Feature-rich vacuums, especially wet-dry vacuums that can handle all spills, are even pricier. Recognizing that there’s a gap in the market for more affordable options, Eureka has delivered one for under $200. Get excited. They're perfect for cleaning sticky messes, whether you made them, your kids, or your pets. But the most important distinction is that wet and dry vacuums can vacuum and mop all in one go, and you don't have to swap out devices, attachments, or anything else. At least, that's the case with Eureka's excellent NEW400 wet and dry all-in-one vacuum. It's even self-propelled to make it easier on you -- and it takes less effort to glide around your floors.
Here's the best part of all, though. For Black Friday, running from November 17 to November 27, you can save big on the Eureka NEW400, which is discounted to $140 instead of its normal $200 price. That's a total savings of $60, but really, even more, considering you're not having to buy a separate vacuum and mop. You can grab that deal below right now or keep reading to learn a little more about what the NEW400 has to offer.
Buy Now Why you should buy the Eureka NEW400 wet and dry vacuum during Black Friday Deals There's never been a better time to spring for sustainable and portable power options, especially with BLUETTI offering some great Black Friday deals, plus an exclusive discount -- which we'll tell you more about in a second. These deals also coincide with a brand new release from the brand, with the debut of the BLUETTI AC200L portable solar generator and power station. It features a 2400-watt output, 2,048-watt-hour capacity, and a 1,200-watt solar input for speedy charging. It's a sleek newcomer that can be boosted to 3,600 watts in a PowerLifting mode for your extensive yet adaptable energy needs. More on that new station and the great deals below.
For a limited time, from November 17 until November 30, Digital Trends readers can use the coupon code DT100 at checkout to receive an extra $20 off. Yes, that code stacks with existing Black Friday deals.
Smart Home Black Friday is a great opportunity to land some savings on household appliances, and this year’s early Black Friday deals include a lot of great discounts on washer and dryer bundles. The best washing machines and the best dryers are made all the better when they come bundled together. We’ve tracked down the best washer and dryer bundles you can shop this Black Friday, with several different brands offering a range of features and capacities to choose from.
Best LG washer & dryer Black Friday deals LG is one of the most well-known names in electronics. It makes devices from TVs to smartphones, but its home appliances are perhaps its most impressive lineup. LG has a lot to offer when it comes to washer and dryer bundles. It makes a lot of different models of varying capacities, and it offers some of the most cutting edge washing and drying smart features as well.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
