Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Deals These Bluetti Halloween deals are downright spooky, but also so so sweet By Briley Kenney Close Image used with permission by copyright holder This content was produced in partnership with Bluetti.
Sweet Bluetti deals that are as good as free candy Downright spooky BLUETTI bundle deals What’s as scary, or scarier in some cases, than a crazed and masked killer chasing you down on a cold autumn night? No power, or losing access to a reliable power supply, especially in today’s hyper-digital world. You won’t be able to upload family photos. You won’t be able to see what everyone else is doing for Halloween. You won’t be able to watch spine-chilling movies or warm up with a mug of hot cocoa. That is, unless, you have a backup solution, also known as a portable power station. And wouldn’t you know it, Bluetti is offering a slew of bootiful and haunted Halloween deals on power stations, extra batteries, and solar panels — the latter so you can charge up your devices with renewable energy. From October 20 to November 5, you have an incredible chance to save, and fill up your trick-or-treat bags with more than just candy! Some examples of what’s in treat include Bluetti’s EB3A portable power station for $209 — normally $239 — which is a spooky savings of $30. The AC200P powerful station starts at $1,399 — normally $1,599 — which is $200 off during the Halloween event. Then there are combo deals that include everything you need, such as the bundle with an AC200MAX plus two PV350 solar panels for $3,199, which has been slashed and ripped by $398. Of course, that’s just the start, there are a lot of sweet treats available if you’re into portable power stations, or honestly, if you just want to have a power solution anywhere — you can use them in your backyard, at a campground, on the road, or even off-grid. Check out the sale below, or keep reading for some more details on the event, and what’s on the chopping block.
Creep the Sale Sweet Bluetti deals that are as good as free candy Image used with permission by copyright holder OK, maybe free candy is a high bar to set — who doesn’t love sweets? But honestly, these are some pretty awesome deals, so now’s a great time to pick up a portable power station and any accessories you might want, far in advance of power issues this winter. It’s also a great time to point out that if you’re hosting a Halloween party, you can use the power station to power lights, speakers, and other electronics outside — like in your backyard or even a local park — and you don’t need an outlet nearby either.
Bluetti EB3A 268Wh portable power station — $209, was $239 Bluetti AC200P 2,000Wh power station — $1,399, was $1,599 Bluetti AC200MAX 2,048Wh power station — $1,799, was $1,899 Bluetti B230 2,048Wh expansion battery pack — $1,299, was $1,399 Bluetti B300 3,072Wh expansion battery pack — $1,899, was $2,199 Bluetti AC300 + B300 expansion battery combo — $3,399, was $3,699 Two Bluetti EP500 5,100Wh power stations and 2,000W AC inverter (built-in) — $4,399, was $4,599 Two Bluetti EP500Pro 5,100Wh power stations with 3,000W AC power and 2,400W solar input (built-in) — $4,899, was $4,999 Downright spooky BLUETTI bundle deals Image used with permission by copyright holder Bluetti bundles, or rather package deals, allow you to get everything you need at once, like a portable power station and some extra backup batteries to keep everything powered on for longer than normal. With some of these bundles, for example, it’s possible to power everything the average family would need for up to a week, maybe more. Honestly, the combo deals are really where it’s at.
Bluetti AC200P + B230 — $2,698, was $3,098 Bluetti AC200P + B300 — $3,298, was $3,898 Bluetti AC200MAX + B230 — $2,999, was $3,298 Bluetti AC200MAX + B300 — $3,699, was $4,098 AC300 + B300 + PV200 solar panels (x3) — $4,796, was $5,196 AC300 + B300 + PV350 solar panels (x3) — $5,846, was $6,246 EP500Pro + PV350 solar panels (x3) — $6,999, was $7,649 The bundles that include solar panels can be charged anywhere, whether on the open road or off-grid. The panels are also designed to plug right in, especially since the AC300 and EP500Pro have inverters and extra power adapters to both convert and charge using the incoming energy. You don’t need anything extra with these bundles! Moreover, if you opt for the AC200P+B230 or AC200P + B300 bundles, you’ll get an XT90-P09D connection cable — normally $89 by itself — for free.
The best way to choose a power station is to consider just how much you’ll need to power, on average, whether during an outage or just wherever you need it. For example, the Bluetti EB3A , while fantastic, has a smaller 268-watt-hour capacity, so if you need to power appliances or anything substantial you’ll want to go with one of the bigger power stations, especially if you want to keep your gear powered for an extended period. The great thing about this sale is that it doesn’t really matter what you need — pretty much all of Bluetti’s stations and extra gear are on sale.
The spooky Halloween event kicks off at 7 p.m. PT October 20, and will be live until 7 p.m. PT November 5, which will speed by, so even though it seems like you have plenty of time to save, well, time waits for no one. Head on over to Bluetti’s site and take a look while the night is young! Creep the Sale Editors' Recommendations BLUETTI rolls out Black Friday specials with a brand-new power station I sniffed out the best early Black Friday Roomba robot vacuum deals The best October Prime Day robot vacuum deals happening now The best October Prime Day smart lock deals we’ve found so far Best Prime Day TV deals: 4K TVs, 8K TVs, QLED TVs, and OLED TVs Smart Home Portable Power Stations Deals This content was produced in partnership with Jackery.
As a pioneer and major contributor to innovation in the solar generator market, Jackery is gearing up to launch its newest flagship systems, the Jackery Solar Generator 1000 Plus and the Jackery Solar Generator 300 Plus, which will both make appearances at IFA 2023 in Berlin. These are the "most versatile solar generators ever created," and align perfectly with Jackery's mission to bring green energy to all.
First up is the Solar Generator 1000 Plus, which is positioned in a new category beyond its initial class, thanks to strong working performance. It comes with a large capacity of 1,264 watt-hours and has a high power output of 2,000 watts. It's a powerful and sustainable next-generation generator with ultra-fast charging.
Smart Home A great way to save on one of the best washing machines and one of the best dryers is to get yourself a washer and dryer bundle. There are a lot of impressive washer and dryer deals taking place right now, including discounts on big name brands like Samsung and LG. Current discounted models offer some modern smarts as well, making a washer and dryer combo something to think about alongside some of the best smart home devices. We’ve tracked down the best washer and dryer deals you can find right now, so read onward for more details.
Insignia 12-cycle washer and dryer set — $800, was $900 If you’re looking for a simple dryer and washer combo that’s also very budget-friendly this Insignia washer and dryer bundle is the one to pounce on. The high-efficiency washer and the 12-cycle electric dryer can make pretty quick work of your laundry while also not taking up too much space in your home. Their small size and efficiency make them great for apartments with high electricity costs or with conscientious owners that want to keep their water usage low. The washer has 3.7 cubic feet of capacity, so you can get quite a bit of clothes done, and the dryer provides you with six manual modes and six automatic modes for you to choose from.
Smart Home If you’ve been shopping the Prime Day deals taking place today, we’re hoping you’ve saved room for some coffee. The best Prime Day smart home deals aren’t complete without considering your kitchen, and for Prime Day there are several great Keurig deals available. These range from Keurig’s single-serve models all the way up to its higher end and more capable models. We’ve tracked down the best Prime Day Keurig deals available today, so read onward for more details on how to score a discount on the right Keurig for your needs.
Our favorite Prime Day Keurig deal Keurig K-Café Essentials K-Cup coffee maker — $70, was $99 Keurig has become one of the most popular names when it comes to coffee makers. It offers multiple models with each expanding a little further upon the offerings of the last. The K-Café Essentials offers Keurig quality a single serving at a time, making it great for apartments, break rooms, and for households that make their coffee one cup at a time. Like all of the best Keurig coffee makers, it will set on a kitchen counter well with any of the best smart kitchen gadgets.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
