Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Deals Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Faster, Higher, Stronger: EcoFlow’s DELTA 2 sets new standard in portable power By Briley Kenney Close This content was produced in partnership with EcoFlow.
Meet the latest member of EcoFlow’s DELTA family Faster: DELTA 2’s industry-leading charging speeds Higher: DELTA 2’s LFP battery and longer-lasting life cycle Stronger: DELTA 2’s expandable possibilities explored Not just a battery, but so much more EcoFlow is on a mission to change the way we see and utilize power, through its environmentally friendly, portable power offerings, and in its competitive market, they’ve successfully revolutionized home energy management via the Smart Home ecosystem. Above all, EcoFlow provides an intelligent home power backup solution, which gives anyone welcome stability in a time of unreliable power performance — blackouts are happening more frequently and electricity bills are soaring due to a global energy crisis. As is to be expected, EcoFlow is continuing that core mission with the launch of the DELTA 2 , providing both a reliable and practical energy source to families the world over. The DELTA 2 is a “mainstream essential appliance for every family” that offers as much versatility, if not more, than its previous products. Moreover, the DELTA 2 is as suitable for off-grid adventures and the great outdoors as it is for at-home and residential use, but it’s also the best 1kWh portable power station on the market and is a huge step up from EcoFlow’s DELTA — the original model.
The prevailing idea behind EcoFlow’s newest and most powerful DELTA 2 is energy freedom, and it delivers all of that, and more.
Meet the latest member of EcoFlow’s DELTA family Image used with permission by copyright holder EcoFlow introduced the original DELTA portable power station back in 2019, which quickly became a consumer favorite, setting the standard in the industry. Now, three years later, EcoFlow is introducing the next generation of DELTA products — the DELTA 2.
 It’s, hands down, the best 1kWh portable power station, that is so much more than just a battery, and, of course, EcoFlow is once again setting a high bar.
The DELTA 2 is a portable power station, much like what EcoFlow has offered in the past. It has a 1,024-watt-hour capacity, but when paired with extra batteries as part of the brand’s expandable capacity system, that can be increased to 2,048-watt-hours or 3,040-watt-hours, anytime. All you have to do is grab the DELTA 2 Extra Battery or the DELTA Max Extra Battery and connect them. So, if you find that you need more power in a pinch, you’re not locked in or limited in any way — you can just expand. But that also means when you’re traveling, off-grid, or out doing something similar, you can decide just how much you want to pack and bring with you. Maybe you don’t need those extra batteries and want to pack light? Cool, you can do exactly that. Want to pack those extra batteries just in case? You can do that too. It’s all up to you, which is not necessarily what you’d get with comparable systems.
Faster: DELTA 2’s industry-leading charging speeds Image used with permission by copyright holder To think, DELTA was already industry-leading technology, but EcoFlow is really kicking things up a notch with the latest model.
DELTA 2 charges much faster than comparable power stations, up to seven times faster to be precise. Most stations need about five to eight hours to charge to 80% capacity, but DELTA 2 can be charged from 0% to 80% in 50 minutes, or from 0% to 100% in 80 minutes. Even EcoFlow’s previous model, DELTA, takes an hour to charge to 80%, or 1.6 hours to charge to full, so already there’s a major improvement for the new generation.
Beyond that, it supports a 500-watt solar input, and this is compared to the OG DELTA’s 400-watt support. It means that solar panels, and solar energy, provide even greater charging support in the DELTA 2, and are capable of charging it to full in three to six hours. Just remember, DELTA takes four to eight hours to charge to full via solar panels.
 EcoFlow is making renewable energy more accessible, more capable, and frankly, better for all.
Higher: DELTA 2’s LFP battery and longer-lasting life cycle Image used with permission by copyright holder The DELTA 2 is EcoFlow’s first portable power station to use a LiFePO4 (LFP) battery, with a longer cycle life than the industry average, and even EcoFlow’s previous NMC-equipped DELTA power station. It takes 3,000 cycles to reach 80% capacity, which is six times as long as the industry average. LFP batteries are also considered safer, more stable, and more heat-resistant than competing options.
As if that wasn’t impressive enough, LFP batteries are also much lighter, making it faster and less burdensome to carry around the DELTA 2 or move camp. The DELTA 2 weighs only 27-pounds, compared to DELTA’s 30.9-pounds. It’s the best portable option for outdoor activities but also makes modular use so much better, as you can move the DELTA 2 around with ease.
Stronger: DELTA 2’s expandable possibilities explored Image used with permission by copyright holder The DELTA 2 can power high-wattage devices with its 1,800-watt output, but let’s not forget it can also power smaller electronics like game consoles, laptops , routers, tablets, and beyond. That’s a big deal when you want to continue using your devices and there’s an outage happening, or if you’re out somewhere with no wall outlets and need to charge your gear. After all, that’s what true energy freedom is all about.
The original DELTA does have a high 1,260-watt-hour capacity, but it’s not expandable either. So, what you see is what you get there. The DELTA 2, on the other hand, has a fully modular capacity that you can completely double, simply by connecting the DELTA 2 Extra Battery. Add a DELTA 2 Max Extra Battery and suddenly that capacity triples. This expandable opportunity means that you can truly customize your system to meet your and your family’s power needs, via a super flexible system. You don’t have to buy an entirely new portable power station just to keep up with growing requirements. The DELTA 2 can power up to 15 devices simultaneously, as well, yet another upgrade over EcoFlow’s previous DELTA.
Not just a battery, but so much more Image used with permission by copyright holder On top of the versatility, modularity, and fast-charging, DELTA 2 kicks things up a notch in the features department too: DELTA 2’s 1,800-watt AC output can power more than 90% of appliances Power up to 15 devices simultaneously across a span of electronics, appliances, and more The station can be fully charged in just three to six hours with a 500-watt solar input DELTA 2 has a lifetime of 3,000 battery cycles, which is six times as long as the industry average With the EPS (Emergency Power Supply) mode, in an outage or power event, DELTA 2 can restore power to appliances within 30 milliseconds It supports Wi-Fi and Bluetooth with the EcoFlow mobile app energy management The DELTA 2 can transcend its purpose as a portable power station and become pretty much anything you want or need it to. It can be a mobile workstation, an outdoor theater, backup power for any scenario where you’d need it, and so much more. It’s not just a battery, it’s an essential appliance for every family.
DELTA 2 in the real world Image used with permission by copyright holder If you live in an area where the power is frequently going out, with rolling outages, then a portable power station is vital. If you’re living off-grid, it’s also necessary to keep your appliances, electronics, and essentials powered up. It’s also great if you travel, or if you’re going on a road trip. But again, most of these scenarios are straightforward and don’t explain why the average person should look into getting something like this.
With the rise of work-from-home opportunities, more people are spending time in home offices or working remotely elsewhere. At the same time, energy is a major concern right now, especially in certain areas. With DELTA 2 , if there were to be an outage, you could continue powering the devices you need without losing any of your unsaved work or having a sudden productivity drop. You can still access power for your router, laptop, phone, and other appliances you need to do your work. Digital nomads gain a ton of freedom from a power station such as EcoFlow’s DELTA 2. Heck, you could even unplug from the normal grid and set up a workstation in your backyard, at a campsite, or on a desert island if you wish.
Regular home use is another great example. You can simply use the DELTA 2 as a backup power solution when outages hit your family home. Or, if you’re hosting a barbecue or get-together, it can power lights, speakers, and lots of other goodies to keep the entertainment going.
Outdoor adventures, camping, road trips, visiting family or friends, and neighborhood get-togethers are just a few additional activities where you might get out the DELTA 2 to power some gear.
If you’re already sold on the idea, EcoFlow’s DELTA 2 will be available starting September 16. If you just want to learn more, head over to EcoFlow’s website. Digital Trends readers can get 5% when ordering the DELTA 2 through EcoFlow’s website — just use promo code EFSD5OFF at checkout (valid from September 16 to October 14).
Editors' Recommendations BLUETTI rolls out Black Friday specials with a brand-new power station Live in power with the Anker SOLIX F3800, its latest evolutionary power station Save $300 on Growatt’s Latest INFINITY 1300 Portable Power Station, Right Now Bluetti’s AC300 and B300 Combo Provides True Power Versatility and Reliability Growatt VITA 550 portable power station keeps all your devices charged on the go Smart Home Portable Power Stations Deals This content was produced in partnership with BLUETTI.
Last year, at CES 2022, BLUETTI regaled everyone in attendance with some fantastic announcements, introducing the world's first sodium-ion solar generator in the NA300 and B480, but also with "The Apex," the long-awaited AC500 portable power station. A pioneer in the clean energy storage industry, and purveyor of excellent portable power solutions, BLUETTI is back at it again this year. Only this time, the company aims to redefine home energy with several innovative offerings, namely through modular energy storage solutions that can sustain an entire household. Of course, this is on top of BLUETTI's existing successes and its diverse range of energy storage and portable power solutions. Let's take a closer look to see what's in store for us this go-round.
Learn More Modular energy storage for the entire home: EP900 and B500 Built to deliver all-in-one energy storage for the whole home, connecting directly to any solar system with a 9-kilowatt max solar input, and connecting to any household AC wiring, the EP900 and B500 combo features a lot of power packed into a small form factor. They feature a 9-kilowatt pure sine wave output with a fully modular and expandable capacity -- allowing you to meet your family's power needs precisely. Starting at 9 kilowatt-hours with a single B500 LFP battery you can extend that up to 39.6 kilowatt-hours with 16 batteries. What's the significance? The EP900 can keep an entire house running during an outage, with minimal concessions made, for up to several days.
Deals This content was produced in partnership with Jackery.
It's here, and now it's time to save big on portable power stations and everything that goes with them, like solar panels and beyond. Why is this such a big deal? Because portable power stations, big and small, can be quite pricey, but there's no denying how incredibly practical and convenient they are. No brand has had more time in the market than Jackery, with loads of portable power options ready to choose from. Of course, the Black Friday deals mean you can save quite a bit, with Jackery offering over $1,000 off and one of the biggest discounts ever! That's not the only thing to get excited about. Jackery is also hosting its 10th Anniversary event, which comes with a plethora of giveaways. To learn more about what's going on and to see some of the fantastic deals, keep reading.
Deals This content was produced in partnership with Jackery.
As far as portable power solutions go, few brands have been in the market as long as Jackery, especially since Jackery's 10th Anniversary celebration is happening right now. But while that's impressive, what's more exciting is that Jackery's Black Friday deals will soon be live too, from November 24 to November 28. During that time, they're going to offer the biggest discount ever on Jackery solutions -- up to $1,080 off. It's libations all around, and for good reason. With the holiday shopping events and Jackery's 10th Anniversary wedged together, a lot is going on that you'll want to be involved with. For example, Jackery's Crazy Monday Giveaway will feature an unmissable mega giveaway -- and we do mean mega -- with prizes worth up to $250,000 in total value. Yeah, we know, it's a lot to take in, so keep reading to learn some of the finer details about the Black Friday sale and Jackery's Anniversary event.
First, let's talk about the giveaway, which will be live on Jackery's official website and YouTube channel. They'll be picking winners during their livestream starting November 28. We don’t know everything they'll be giving away, but it will be a total of $250,000 in prizes. Jackery has teamed up with Black Series to give away camper vans. Plus, there will be money back opportunities for Jackery orders placed during Black Friday, and many, many more prizes beyond that! Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
