Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Deals EcoFlow Innovates: RIVER 2 Pro Is the Best Portable Power Station Under 1kWh By Briley Kenney Close This content was produced in partnership with EcoFlow.
EcoFlow’s Latest Innovation: The River 2 Pro Portable Power Station and Solar Generator EcoFlow Continues to Push the Boundaries of Portable Power Celebrating RIVER 2 Pro’s Official Launch Power is a concern for everyone. Whether you’re more worried about reliability, availability, costs, or even alternatives — like renewables — power is a big part of our daily lives. We need it to keep our lights on, charge or power our electronics, use our appliances for cooking, cleaning, and much more. Generators are a good source of backup power, especially during an emergency or outage. But they come with a ton of limitations. What if there was a no noise, no fumes, low maintenance, no long-term cost, and a cordless option? Queue the wide world of portable power stations, particularly EcoFlow’s excellent selection of power-ready devices. As a brand, it continuously pushes the envelope in terms of what can be achieved in the portable power market, and this time EcoFlow is back with one of the best portable power stations in the under one-kilowatt-hour category. Introducing the RIVER 2 Pro portable power station and solar generator.
There are two primary features of the RIVER 2 Pro that stand out. It’s portable and powerful. With a 768-watt-hour capacity, it can support essential appliances for as long as hours to a full day’s usage, depending on power requirements. You can charge your phone to make sure you keep up with the news, or so you can make emergency calls, or you can power your fridge to keep your food fresh and preserved. It’s an excellent choice for people that want to find a balance between power and portability. Moreover, with the RIVER 2 Pro, and a 220-watt solar panel, you can achieve up to 1.8 kilowatt-hours of energy per day — the solar panel recharges the unit and keeps everything connected to it powered up. Let’s dig into some of the finer details and specifications of the RIVER 2 Pro, before talking a little about how and why EcoFlow is innovating in today’s portable power market.
Order Now EcoFlow’s Latest Innovation: The River 2 Pro Portable Power Station and Solar Generator EcoFlow With many of the small portable power stations on the market, power is sacrificed to achieve greater portability. Yes, they may serve as a quick support option in a pinch, but you can’t rely on them for long. That’s not true with EcoFlow’s River 2 Pro. It offers the best of both worlds, remaining portable and lightweight so you can move it around your property, toss it in the back of your car, van or RV, or set it up wherever you need it during an emergency, including inside your home — even a small living space. It’s electric, so there are no emissions, no dangerous fumes, and no issues with using it inside or outside. Plus, it has a decent capacity for a smaller-sized unit, doubles as a solar generator, and offers both fast charging speeds and exceptional reliability thanks to the LFP battery technology.
You can recharge it in several ways, including via traditional outlets, and that boosts power from 0% up to 100% within 70 minutes, which is five times faster than comparable models. T hanks to the LFP battery chemistry , the RIVER 2 Pro’s battery life is up to 3000 cycles or 10 years of daily use which is six times longer than the industry average.
If you’re not using the RIVER 2 Pro, you don’t have to worry about discharge problems either. Even with no recharging, it barely drains any battery and will hold nearly a full charge after a full year of no use. It’s safe to charge it, set it aside, and pull it out when you need it most, offering a very low maintenance option. Even better, it’s safe to use in hot or high-temperature climates. This is typically not recommended with most batteries, but the RIVER 2 Pro will be just fine in these conditions. It’s brethren, the RIVER 2 256-watt-hour station , and RIVER 2 Max 512-watt-hour station , offer smaller capacities with similar features if you want to downsize.
EcoFlow Continues to Push the Boundaries of Portable Power Image used with permission by copyright holder With its slogan to “power a new world,” EcoFlow is definitely innovating in the portable power station market, but far beyond as well. It offers a whole-home backup power system , for instance, that’s installation-free, has a modular and expandable capacity, and is compatible with dual fuel generators if you’re not sold on all-electric just yet. The starter kit offers up to one day of essential power, with options to expand up to one whole week, and tack on smart controls. Whether you’re looking for a more static option, with portability and modularity still a core focus, or smaller systems, like the RIVER 2 Pro, and accessories — like smart extra batteries, smart remote control solutions, or solar panels — EcoFlow offers an endless variety of practical options.
Loyal members can even join the EcoCredits reward program , earning you valuable rewards every time you shop for EcoFlow products. If you’re considering upgrading your whole-home power backup, or want to pick up a small system in case of emergencies, it’s certainly worth joining the program.
Celebrating RIVER 2 Pro’s Official Launch Image used with permission by copyright holder All-in, EcoFlow offers a tastefully-designed portable power solution but doesn’t stop there. You can expand your arsenal with whole-home backup solutions, accessories, solar panels for renewable charging, and much more. The premiere of the RIVER 2 Pro is exciting, but it certainly isn’t the first time EcoFlow is making waves in the power market, and it certainly won’t be the last.
To coincide with the launch of the RIVER 2 Pro, its latest solution, EcoFlow is offering a ton of excellent perks. For starters, when you use code R2PAPRIL3DT at checkout, you’ll get an 8% discount, bringing the normal price of $649 down to $597. That offer is also available for the RIVER 2 Pro Bundle which includes a 220-watt solar panel. Don’t miss out, that deal runs for a month from April 3 to May 3 and then it’s gone. But wait, there’s more. You’ll also receive a RIVER 2 bag for free, along with triple EcoCredits for your rewards account from April 3 to April 9 at EcoFlow Shopify. It’s an EcoFlow deals extravaganza.
Order at EcoFlow Order at Amazon Editors' Recommendations BLUETTI rolls out Black Friday specials with a brand-new power station Live in power with the Anker SOLIX F3800, its latest evolutionary power station Save $300 on Growatt’s Latest INFINITY 1300 Portable Power Station, Right Now Growatt VITA 550 portable power station keeps all your devices charged on the go BLUETTI at CES 2023: Back in black with whole-home power backup solutions Portable Power Stations Deals This content was produced in partnership with Jackery.
It's here, and now it's time to save big on portable power stations and everything that goes with them, like solar panels and beyond. Why is this such a big deal? Because portable power stations, big and small, can be quite pricey, but there's no denying how incredibly practical and convenient they are. No brand has had more time in the market than Jackery, with loads of portable power options ready to choose from. Of course, the Black Friday deals mean you can save quite a bit, with Jackery offering over $1,000 off and one of the biggest discounts ever! That's not the only thing to get excited about. Jackery is also hosting its 10th Anniversary event, which comes with a plethora of giveaways. To learn more about what's going on and to see some of the fantastic deals, keep reading.
Deals This content was produced in partnership with Zendure.
It is effectively the year of the portable power station, and for good reason. In a time when grid-based power is increasingly unreliable, people are looking for alternatives, but for all-purpose use and not just for their homes. That includes during road trips, while camping, and even while living completely off-grid, whether in a van or a small cabin. While there are many such products on the market, one of the newest is Zendure's SuperBase V, which first made an appearance at IFA 2022 in Berlin -- from September 2-6. After making a big splash during the trade show, it will soon be available to order through Kickstarter, starting September 29th.
But what does the Zendure SuperBase V have to offer, and how does it set itself apart from the competition? The SuperBase V is a Home Power Storage System, and with it, Zendure aims to provide true power independence with zero compromises. With a satellite expansion module, solar power, and paired with AC outlet power, the system can be charged up to a maximum of 6.6-kolwatts. It can operate as both a generator, or portable power station, and a zero-downtime UPS system to keep the power on during an outage. You'll have plenty of time to save your work if the power trips, for example, or you can keep gaming and get to a save spot if you're in the middle of playing. As a more serious example, critical medical equipment can remain powered on such as a CPAP machine or breathing apparatus. Of course, there's a lot more to it, which you can read about below. You can head over to Zendure's website to learn more too.
Learn More Deals This content was produced in partnership with Anker.
The Anker 757 PowerHouse is, as the name suggests, an absolute energy powerhouse. It is a long-lasting portable power station with a 1,229-watt-hour capacity and a 1,500-watt output. Thanks to Hyper Flash tech, it can recharge to 80% in just one hour, and it supports 300-watt solar charging, plus has 13 total ports for all of your devices and gear.
What's the big deal, you ask? Now is the perfect opportunity to get your hands on one for free. You can win it, simply by entering the sweepstakes you see below. Keep reading for more details.
What is the Anker 757 PowerHouse portable power station? If you didn't already know, a portable power station is a relatively versatile system that can charge devices, power electronics, and some appliances, and can even keep the power on during outages in some cases, not necessarily by connecting to your home's sub-panel. They're also excellent for off-grid and remote living.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
