Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Deals Growatt Infinity 1500 is the ultimate power hub for all of your devices By Briley Kenney Close This content was produced in partnership with Growatt.
Introducing the Growatt Infinity 1500 portable power station What can you plug in and power? One hub to rule them all We might as well call this the age of the portable power station, and for good reason. With various weather events hitting what seems to be regularly, uncertain power sources that can lead to blackouts and outages, the rising costs of the average power bill, and cold winter weather on the way, there’s a lot to be concerned about when it comes to securing energy. Portable power stations are an excellent way to ensure you have power if and when something happens, at least for your essentials. And it’s always nice to see new players and new options hit the market, like Growatt’s Infinity 1500 — a newly launched portable power station.
Each new system unveiled by power makers purports to be bigger and better than the rest out there, and with the Infinity 1500 that indeed seems to be the case, particularly at its price point of $1,599. But the biggest draw is that this thing is packed with power and practicality. For starters, it features a 1,512-watt-hour battery capacity, with a 2,000-watt AC output, and 12 outlets total to plug in your many devices and electronics. It charges via AC in just two hours but supports 800-watt solar input so you can hook up solar panels at any time, and it takes just two and a half hours to charge that way. Growatt has over a decade of experience in the energy solutions field on the B2B side of things, and it shows. This is their first consumer-facing product, and you can learn more by visiting the dedicated page below, or simply by reading on.
Buy Now Introducing the Growatt Infinity 1500 portable power station Image used with permission by copyright holder Right away, you’ll notice the design, and while the Infinity 1500 has a similar brick shape as many of the other portable power stations, the top offers wireless charging. You can set your phone on top — or any other wireless-charging-enabled device — and it will automatically power up the battery. More importantly, the 12 various outlets make all the difference, including two USB-A, two fast-charge USB, two USB-C, four AC outputs at 2,000 watts, a DC output, a solar and vehicle input up to 800 watts, and a 1,500-watt AC input. You can plug into all 12 outlets at once, having up to 12 devices powered on and charging. Overload protection ensures that no devices are damaged or experience power surges of any kind. Of course, one of the best features is the fast-charging support which means the Infinity 1500 can recharge to full fairly quickly, much faster than comparable stations mind you. It charges normally, via AC, in just two hours, but the solar charging supports an 800-watt input which allows it to charge via renewable energy in just two and a half hours. That’s remarkable! You’ll never need an outlet again at this rate! The Infinity 1500 can also work as a UPS, or uninterruptible power supply, to keep your most important gear powered on even during an outage. It’s safe to use indoors as well, unlike traditional generators that produce toxic emissions — the Infinity 1500 does not.
A free smartphone app, called the myGro app, syncs with the power station and allows you to remotely access and adjust settings. You can also keep a close eye on the device and anything connected to it, so you know how much battery power is left, for example, or what outlets are being used currently. As the Infinity 1500 serves as a powerful hub for all of your electronics, it’s super convenient to be able to access and monitor the system remotely through the app.
What can you plug in and power? Image used with permission by copyright holder Some of the more obvious uses are always worth mentioning, of course. For instance, you can charge your mobile devices and phones, tablets, game consoles, speakers, laptops , cameras, and even a projector, as if you wanted to have a movie night outdoors.
Then there are the lesser-known options like light bulbs, drones, electric grills up to 1,200 watts, hair dryers, Wi-Fi routers, TVs, microwave ovens, air conditioners up to 1,000 watts, blenders, and even a small refrigerator up to 150 watts.
Keeping these devices operational during an outage might be the top choice, but you can also power them while you’re on the road or off-grid. If you’re camping or living in a wilderness cabin, whether permanently or for a vacation, the Infinity 1500 will make a suitable energy companion. You can toss it in your vehicle or RV easily, and it won’t take up much space, so it’s just as useful on the road. It weighs 16.5 kilograms or about 36 pounds, so while not super lightweight, it’s not too bulky either. Add some solar panels and you’ll be able to charge it anywhere using renewable energy, even when you can’t get to an outlet.
One hub to rule them all Image used with permission by copyright holder With over-temperature, short circuit, over-discharge, overpower, overcharge, and overvoltage protections, the Infinity 1500 will keep everything charged and powered up, without causing any serious problems. Seeing as it can power about 95% of outdoor devices, mobiles, and home appliances, it’s the ideal hub for all your power needs — dare we say the one hub to rule them all? The Growatt Infinity 1500 is available now, normally $1,599, you can get it for $200 off, with the final price at $1,299. You have to hurry though, as that deal will only be available for the next few days.
Buy Now Editors' Recommendations Nest Black Friday deals: Nest Hub, Nest Cameras, Nest Thermostats Nest Thermostat Black Friday deals: Save on all three models It’s time for a new kind of portable power: Yoshino B4000 SST Usually $450, this KitchenAid stand mixer can be yours for $250 today I sniffed out the best early Black Friday Roomba robot vacuum deals Smart Home Portable Power Stations Smart Home Having your home set up to be smart can be very convenient, whether it's regulating the light when you're coming and going from home to talking between family members and sending reminders. There's a ton you can do with a smart home, but if you want to control it all without carrying your phone around, grabbing a smart home device to act as a hub is a good idea. To that end, if you're already in the Google ecosystem, this deal on the Google Nest Hub will let you nab a great hub device for relatively cheap. While it usually goes for $100, you can grab it from Best Buy for just $60, a great $40 discount you can put towards something else.
Why you should buy the Google Nest Hub The Google Nest Hub is a mix between a smart screen and a smart speaker, and while it can do both, it can't do them particularly well, which, surprisingly, isn't a dealbreaker. In terms of the screen, you get a 7-inch display running a 1024 x 600 resolution, which, truthfully, is not great for watching shows or films. That said, if you're using it next to your nightstand for time, weather, and other general controls, that's fine, and it's similarly great if you want to stick it in the kitchen to have something to look at from time to time as you cook. Sadly, there's no webcam for you to have video calls on, but it also means you don't have to worry about privacy, so the Nest Hub can go into any room without issue.
Smart Home If you follow Amazon, you'll know that their event is going on now. While we're collecting the best October Prime day deals in one spot, sometimes something comes up that is so special it deserves special coverage. Such is the case with the BISSELL PowerGlide 3080, which Amazon Prime members can get for just $100. That's significant, because the usual price is $247. To get the $137 discount you earned for being a Prime member, just tap the button below. Keep reading to see why we think this deal is so cool.
Deals While browsing today's Prime Day deals, we were excited to see that one of the best floodlight cameras out there has a significant discount. The Ring Floodlight Cam is down to just $120 after a nice $80 discount. If you're been thinking about upgrading the security outside your house, this Prime Big Deal Days offer is a great option. Grab it before the two-day sales event ends.
Why you should buy the Ring Floodlight Cam Wired Plus The Ring Floodlight Cam Wires Plus is pretty easy to install if you know how to install a light fixture, and it won't take long, assuming you're replacing an existing one. Interestingly enough, the back plate has foam to protect from water intrusion or other elements you'd deal with outside, which is a nice addition and helps avoid having to caulk it yourself. In terms of placement, both lights and Ring Camera can be rotated freely, and you can even place the Ring Camera above rather than below, as is usual. Either way, you're dealing with two 2,000-lumen floodlights, which are pretty intense and should let you see relatively far away at night and are much more powerful than the spotlight version, as you can see in our breakdown between the Ring Spotlight Cam Pro vs. Ring Floodlight Pro.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
