Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Deals Growatt VITA 550 portable power station keeps all your devices charged on the go By Lucas Coll Close Image used with permission by copyright holder This content was produced in partnership with Growatt.
As convenient as today’s mobile devices can be, our over-reliance on electronics is not without problems; namely, having to keep all those mobile gadgets charged when you’re on the move.
Laptops , smartphones, tablets, smartwatches, wireless headphones , and handheld gaming systems (and this list only goes on) all require regular charging, and if you don’t like being tied to a power outlet, then a portable power station is what you need. Growatt, an expert maker of smart home solar power and energy storage equipment, has just the solution in its new VITA 550 , a compact and highly portable power station that’s the perfect solution for keeping all your gadgets juiced up on the go. It was just released at the CES 2023 trade show with the standard price of $529. If you pre-order it before January 31, you can score a $100 early-bird discount that lets you grab one for $429 for a limited time. Between January 10 and January 31, 2023, you can also use coupon code GroVita550 to get an additional $30 off, bringing the price down to $399.
Pre-Order Now As a solar leader, Growatt has 11 years of experience in the new energy industry, and has supported over three million individuals and families. Growatt’s newest product, the VITA 550 features some impressive specs on that front. For example, the 240 watt input support is one of the highest solar intake options in the 500 watt-hour capacity range. It also charges super fast thanks to the 2.5-hour rated charging times via solar, thanks to the high solar input. Most importantly, the 99% MPPT technology delivers a very low conversion loss making the solar generation for the system much more efficient and capable.
We’ve all run into the situation of needing to charge one or more of our portable electronic devices, only to be nowhere near a power source. It’s one of the perennial problems of living in a tech-driven digital age. It’s no mystery, then, why portable charging solutions have become so popular, ranging from pocket-sized power banks to large generator-like power stations capable of powering laptops and smaller kitchen appliances. The new Growatt VITA 550 falls somewhere closer to the middle of that spectrum, striking a nice balance between portability and power storage capacity.
Exploring the Growatt VITA 550 in more detail Image used with permission by copyright holder The Growatt VITA 550 portable power station features a LiFePO4 internal battery with a capacity of 538 watt-hours and a maximum power delivery output of 600 watts. That LFP battery is rated for 3,000 cycles (well above the industry average of 800 cycles) and is made safe and reliable with temperature and voltage regulation and protection against over-charging/discharging, overloading, and short circuits. The long-lasting Growatt VITA 550 utilizes bidirectional inverter technology to bridge the gap between charging speed and lifespan, as fast-charging can often shorten the lifecycle of portable chargers and power stations. This bidirectional inverter technology allows you to fully charge the VITA 550 up in just 1.6 hours via AC, so it’s ready to go quickly.
The Growatt VITA 550 portable power station has 11 charging points, including a wireless charging point, so it can power up a wide variety of electronics and can handle multiple devices simultaneously. It sports four USB ports (three USB-A and one USB-C, three AC charging outlets, a car charger port, and two DC5521 charging ports, with the wireless charging pad conveniently sitting up top. It supports three charging methods — AC, solar, and auto. That flexibility in charging and the superfast speeds make it a great addition to your travel load for camping, beach trips, RVing, and other adventures where you’ll frequently be far from an AC outlet.
The winning specs don’t stop with its charging capabilities and industry-leading battery technologies, however. The Growatt VITA 550 power station also offers smart controls via the MyGro companion app for iOS and Android.
 You can connect to the power station via Wi-Fi or Bluetooth, allowing you to remotely monitor and control the power output and utilization of the VITA 550 from your mobile device. With the MyGro app, you can keep an eye on battery percentages and input/output wattages, remotely turn the power station on and off, and even adjust charging speeds of various devices connected to the power station. An easy-to-read LCD panel on the front also gives you a quick read-out of power levels and charging activity at a glance.
The Growatt VITA 550 portable power station is the perfect travel-friendly energy solution for charging up all of your devices, from handheld mobile gadgets to laptops, CPAP machines, small kitchen appliances. Its compact size and fast-charging features make it particularly ideal for traveling and for outdoor adventures. Growatt just released its new portable power station on January 5 at CES 2023, so now’s a good time to secure one for your home. Normally $529, through January 31, you can pre-order your own VITA 550 for the early-bird price of $429, giving you a $100 discount. But also, between January 10 and January 31, 2023, you can use coupon code GroVita550 to get an additional $30 off, bringing the price down to $399.
Pre-Order Now Editors' Recommendations BLUETTI rolls out Black Friday specials with a brand-new power station Live in power with the Anker SOLIX F3800, its latest evolutionary power station Jackery’s Solar Generator 1000 Plus and 300 Plus: next-gen versatile energy EcoFlow Innovates: RIVER 2 Pro Is the Best Portable Power Station Under 1kWh Bluetti’s AC300 and B300 Combo Provides True Power Versatility and Reliability Outdoors Portable Power Stations Deals This content was produced in partnership with BLUETTI.
Last year, at CES 2022, BLUETTI regaled everyone in attendance with some fantastic announcements, introducing the world's first sodium-ion solar generator in the NA300 and B480, but also with "The Apex," the long-awaited AC500 portable power station. A pioneer in the clean energy storage industry, and purveyor of excellent portable power solutions, BLUETTI is back at it again this year. Only this time, the company aims to redefine home energy with several innovative offerings, namely through modular energy storage solutions that can sustain an entire household. Of course, this is on top of BLUETTI's existing successes and its diverse range of energy storage and portable power solutions. Let's take a closer look to see what's in store for us this go-round.
Learn More Modular energy storage for the entire home: EP900 and B500 Built to deliver all-in-one energy storage for the whole home, connecting directly to any solar system with a 9-kilowatt max solar input, and connecting to any household AC wiring, the EP900 and B500 combo features a lot of power packed into a small form factor. They feature a 9-kilowatt pure sine wave output with a fully modular and expandable capacity -- allowing you to meet your family's power needs precisely. Starting at 9 kilowatt-hours with a single B500 LFP battery you can extend that up to 39.6 kilowatt-hours with 16 batteries. What's the significance? The EP900 can keep an entire house running during an outage, with minimal concessions made, for up to several days.
Deals This content was produced in partnership with Lorex.
Smart home technology has revolutionized home security, and if the new year has you hunting for a new way to secure your castle, you're in luck. Lorex, a leading provider of smart home security solutions, is kicking off 2023 with a sale that you don't want to miss: From now until January 15, shoppers can take advantage of discounts of up to 40% on some of the company's most popular products, including , Deals This content was produced in partnership with Roborock.
This Black Friday, Roborock has some amazing offers on robot vacuums that are seriously going to change your life. If you hate cleaning your home manually, these timesavers will make everything better, all while being far more efficient than anything you could produce. With up to $340 to save on select models, we've picked out some of the best Roborock deals going on right now. Read on while we take you through everything you need to know.
Roborock S7MaxV -- $640, was $860 The Roborock S7MaxV is a fully automated robot vacuum solution that is going to revolutionize your life. Part robot vacuum, part mop, it knows how to keep things clean. It offers supremely powerful suction of up to 5,100Pa in Max+ mode with its LiDAR navigation, giving you maximum coverage. Its multi-directional floating brush keeps close to the floor on uneven surfaces so it really doesn't miss a thing. When mopping up hard floors, it can scrub at up to 3,000 cycles per minute so that dried on stains are a thing of the past. It's also smart enough to know how to avoid obstacles and identify them for the future, with an LED for recognition in dark rooms too. 3D mapping helps the Roborock S7MaxV learn everything about your home. Impressively, you can even make video calls to anywhere in your home via the Roborock S7MaxV, which is a great extra detail.
Buy Now Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
