Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Deals Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Jackery’s Black Friday event has lots in store, including giveaways and huge discounts By Briley Kenney Close This content was produced in partnership with Jackery.
As far as portable power solutions go, few brands have been in the market as long as Jackery, especially since Jackery’s 10th Anniversary celebration is happening right now. But while that’s impressive, what’s more exciting is that Jackery’s Black Friday deals will soon be live too, from November 24 to November 28. During that time, they’re going to offer the biggest discount ever on Jackery solutions — up to $1,080 off. It’s libations all around, and for good reason. With the holiday shopping events and Jackery’s 10th Anniversary wedged together, a lot is going on that you’ll want to be involved with. For example, Jackery’s Crazy Monday Giveaway will feature an unmissable mega giveaway — and we do mean mega — with prizes worth up to $250,000 in total value. Yeah, we know, it’s a lot to take in, so keep reading to learn some of the finer details about the Black Friday sale and Jackery’s Anniversary event.
First, let’s talk about the giveaway, which will be live on Jackery’s official website and YouTube channel. They’ll be picking winners during their livestream starting November 28. We don’t know everything they’ll be giving away, but it will be a total of $250,000 in prizes. Jackery has teamed up with Black Series to give away camper vans. Plus, there will be money back opportunities for Jackery orders placed during Black Friday, and many, many more prizes beyond that! Next, Black Friday officially kicks off November 24 and runs until the 28th, giving you plenty of days to save. But here’s the kicker: You can also sign up for a chance to access exclusive coupons, which will allow you to get even bigger savings than what’s being offered during the event. Coupon examples include 50%, 80%, and up to 90% off, but there are no guarantees about what you’ll get.
Finally, excellent deals are on offer during Black Friday, which will save you up to $1,080 on Jackery gear. You can expect to find deals on the Jackery Solar Generators, including 2000 Pro and 1000, Jackery Explorer portable power stations, and much more. Now’s a great time to run through Jackery’s selection, which not only includes portable power stations, but also solar panels, solar generators, and accessories. Keep a close eye on Jackery’s solar generator bundles, which come with a generator, solar panels, and everything you need to connect them and charge the system via solar.
Portable power stations, if you’re not familiar, allow you to charge your electronics and necessities from just about anywhere, such as on the road, while camping, glamping, in your backyard, and even in your home. The latter is important because when there’s an outage, you can keep small appliances, phones, and other emergency gear powered up. It’s always good to have a portable power station handy, let alone some solar panels to charge the station anywhere, and now’s your opportunity to get them at a steep discount, or maybe even win one.
Editors' Recommendations Best smart plug Black Friday deals: Get connected from just $10 Hurry! PS5 consoles are discounted in Walmart’s Black Friday sale Best Black Friday gaming laptop deals: Cheapest prices today The best Sony TV Black Friday deals on 4K TVs, 8K TVs, and OLED TVs Walmart Black Friday deals: The best offers you can shop now Black Friday Portable Power Stations Gaming Lego sets bring joy to our and our kids' eyes. They can help build real problem solving skills by following instructions, encourage creativity by dismissing the instructions and making fun modifications, or be the tools to create something entirely on our own from the ground up. There are tons of Black Friday Lego deals, as you might've guessed, but few places due it as well as Walmart does. Between official Black Friday deals and associated clearance items, the retail giant now has over 80 sets on sale as part of its Walmart Black Friday deals. Go shop the sale now via the button below or read on to see our favorite picks.
Our favorite Walmart Black Friday Lego deal Smart Home Oral hygiene is critical to maintaining good health, and refusing to brush, floss, and clean your mouth after meals, and especially before bed, can result in some pretty nasty health problems. Did you know gum disease may have a connection to heart problems, for example? So, it stands to reason you should always keep a valid toothbrush on hand, but you can also use a Waterpik or water flosser to clean around your teeth and gums without going the traditional pick and floss route. Right now is a good time to shop for one, thanks to a ton of Black Friday deals which have dropped the prices considerably. We've rounded up the best of the best Waterpik Black Friday deals, on water flossers and toothbrushes from the brand, all in one place. Let's get flossy.
Best Waterpik toothbrush Black Friday deals When it comes to Waterpik toothbrush and water flosser combo systems, there really is only one model on sale. That said, there are different prices available across retailers like Best Buy and Walmart, plus Best Buy has an additional bundle available with extra brush heads. Why would we include both? If you are in the My Best Buy rewards program -- and have the credit card -- you can save extra with your rewards. If these don't hit the spot, check out the general electric toothbrush Black Friday deals.
Smart Home Google's Nest is one of the most popular smart home brands in the market today, as it offers everything from security cameras to smart thermostats. If you want to upgrade your smart home setup, or if you want to finally start building it, you should take advantage of this year's Black Friday deals so that you'll be able to buy more devices with your budget. There are a lot of options to choose from, so to help with your decisions for your purchases, we've rounded up our favorite bargains below from the available Google Nest deals for Black Friday.
Check out similar Amazon Echo Black Friday deals if you prefer talking to Alexa over Google.
Google Nest Hub Black Friday deals Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
