Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Deals Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Jackery Black Friday: Save up to $1080 off portable power solutions By Briley Kenney Close This content was produced in partnership with Jackery.
Jackery Solar Generator 2000 Pro — $2,519, was $3,599 Jackery Solar Generator 1000 — $1,088, was $1,649 Jackery Explorer 1000 Portable Power Station — $769, was $1,099 Jackery Explorer 300 Portable Power Station — $210, was $300 Jackery’s 10th Anniversary, Black Friday, and Cyber Monday collide It’s here, and now it’s time to save big on portable power stations and everything that goes with them, like solar panels and beyond. Why is this such a big deal? Because portable power stations, big and small, can be quite pricey, but there’s no denying how incredibly practical and convenient they are. No brand has had more time in the market than Jackery, with loads of portable power options ready to choose from. Of course, the Black Friday deals mean you can save quite a bit, with Jackery offering over $1,000 off and one of the biggest discounts ever! That’s not the only thing to get excited about. Jackery is also hosting its 10th Anniversary event, which comes with a plethora of giveaways. To learn more about what’s going on and to see some of the fantastic deals, keep reading.
Jackery Solar Generator 2000 Pro — $2,519, was $3,599 Image used with permission by copyright holder This bundle includes the Jackery Solar Generator 2000 Pro, plus two SolarSaga 200-watt solar panels. The generator offers a 2,160-watt-hour capacity with a 2,200-watt output, and 4,400-watt peak surge power. The panels also allow you to charge the station via renewable energy from just about anywhere. So, it’s great for camping, glamping, road trips, and off-grid living. Don’t forget, you can also charge it via wall outlets and car outlets — not just solar. With this deal, you’re saving $1,080.
Jackery Solar Generator 1000 — $1,088, was $1,649 Image used with permission by copyright holder This set comes with the Jackery Solar Generator 1000 and two SolarSaga 100-watt solar panels. The generator has a 1,002-watt-hour capacity, with 1,000-watt power output and 2,000-watt surge power. It can be recharged via solar, fully, in eight hours thanks to the two included panels. You can also charge it traditionally, via wall or car outlets. You get two USB-C ports, two standard USBs, one DC carport, and three AC outlets — with pure-sine wave. Thanks to this deal, you’re saving over $560.
Jackery Explorer 1000 Portable Power Station — $769, was $1,099 Image used with permission by copyright holder The Explorer 1000 is a portable power station that’s relatively lightweight, super versatile, and ultra-convenient. You can power and charge up to eight devices at one time. It charges via wall and car outlets, but you can hook up solar panels to this bad boy, too. It has a 1,002-watt-hour capacity, with 1,000-watt power output. It’s excellent for travel and on-the-go use sure, but you can also use it at home, especially during outages and emergencies. With the deal, you’re saving $330.
Jackery Explorer 300 Portable Power Station — $210, was $300 Image used with permission by copyright holder As the best entry-level option, and most affordable, the Explorer 300 portable power station has a 293-watt-hour capacity with two pure sine wave AC outlets — offering up to 300-watt output with a peak output of 500 watts. It’s small but packs a punch. It’s certainly a great complement to any other power stations you might have too. For Black Friday and Cyber Monday, you’re saving $90 on this already reasonably priced station.
Jackery’s 10th Anniversary, Black Friday, and Cyber Monday collide Making perhaps one of the biggest events in the brand’s history, Jackery is not only celebrating its 10th anniversary with lots of fantastic giveaways but it’s also sharing some ridiculous Black Friday and Cyber Monday deals, including some of the biggest discounts ever. The sale is live from November 24 until November 28. Moreover, those giveaways and prizes will be up for grabs, so make sure to check back with Jackery’s official site.
Editors' Recommendations Best smart plug Black Friday deals: Get connected from just $10 DJI Mini 3 Pro Black Friday deal saves you $110 on the drone This Lego Star Wars advent calendar is 32% off for Black Friday Best Amazon Echo Black Friday deals: Echo Pop, Echo Show 8, and more Best Black Friday gaming laptop deals: Cheapest prices today Black Friday Portable Power Stations Computing Black Friday deals have brought with them some awesome laptop deals so you can save big on everything from a budget-priced Chromebook to a high-end gaming laptop. We'd be remiss if we didn't also mention the Amazon Black Friday laptop deals guide, there are a lot of good discounts on there, too. If you've been waiting to upgrade your current rig, this is your chance. There are so many options out there that we've picked out some of our favorites so you can easily find the right laptop for your needs and your budget. This list does not include Black Friday MacBook deals, so make sure you check those out too. Here's a look at all the highlights.
Top 3 Black Friday laptop deals HP 17-inch laptop -- $250, was $500 Currently heavily discounted as part of HP laptop Black Friday deals, the HP 17-inch laptop is ideal for anyone on a slim budget. It looks more expensive than it is thanks to having a 17-inch HD+ screen with 1600 x 900 and 250 nits of brightness. That extra room also means the keyboard is roomier with a numeric pad to the right of it that's ideal for entering a lot of data. The laptop has an AMD Athlon Gold 7220U processor along with 8GB of memory and 128GB of SSD storage. It also has a lift-hinge to ensure you can type at a more natural position.
Computing It's Black Friday, which means it is time to give expensive tech products and fun, but expensive, toys a second look. The right Black Friday deals are there to take these categories of products down in price. Where these categories of expensive tech and cool toys collide is the Meta Quest 2, a VR headset, and sure enough, it has a good sale going on over at Amazon right now. Normally $300, its price has dropped by $51 down to just $249, one of the best VR headset Black Friday deals we've seen. The really good news? This deal is here now, so you don't have to wait to buy it like you will with the rest of your post Thanksgiving shopping. In fact, if you tap the button below and buy now, and with a little shipping luck, you might have it by Thanksgiving to play with your family.
Why you should buy the Meta Quest 2 The Meta Quest 2, which dominated Steam last year, is a VR headset that gives a full 360 field of view, allows you to experience 3D positional audio, and has over 500 compatible titles between gaming, fitness, and other experiences. If you're a Twitch viewer, you may recognize it from streamers playing Meta Quest 2 games like Beat Saber or the somewhat ironically humorous Among Us VR. It refreshes at 120Hz and gives each eye a view of 1832 x 1920p.
Audio / Video Black Friday is here, earlier than ever this year. Retailers are starting to shower the interwebs with early Black Friday deals, discounts, and promotions galore. Now is really one of the best times of the year to capitalize on those huge savings, whether you need a new smart TV, a new laptop, a game console, or just about anything else, even if they're not electronics. As for your home theater setup, if you're looking to upgrade your TV to a 4K, 8K, or just a better set, have we got some offers for you.
Sony Black Friday deals include some great offers in OLED TV Black Friday deals and QLED TV Black Friday deals, so check those out below, then pair your new display with one of the best Black Friday soundbar deals or a gaming console with PS5 Black Friday deals. We've rounded up all of the best Sony TV Black Friday deals we could find on a host of models and styles. The smallest TV in this article is 43-inches, so check out the best 32-inch TV Black Friday deals if you need a mini option. For bigger options, check out 55-inch TV Black Friday deals, 70-inch TV Black Friday deals and some of the offers in Amazon Black Friday deals.
Best Sony TV Black Friday deals on 4K TVs Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
