Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Deals Jackery’s Solar Generator 1000 Plus and 300 Plus: next-gen versatile energy By Digital Trends Staff Close Jackery This content was produced in partnership with Jackery.
Solar Generator 1000 Plus: Safe, expandable, and next-generation power Solar Generator 300 Plus: Lightweight, portable, sustainable, and safe When do you need Jackery’s solutions? Exploring scenarios As a pioneer and major contributor to innovation in the solar generator market, Jackery is gearing up to launch its newest flagship systems, the Jackery Solar Generator 1000 Plus and the Jackery Solar Generator 300 Plus, which will both make appearances at IFA 2023 in Berlin. These are the “most versatile solar generators ever created,” and align perfectly with Jackery’s mission to bring green energy to all.
First up is the Solar Generator 1000 Plus, which is positioned in a new category beyond its initial class, thanks to strong working performance. It comes with a large capacity of 1,264 watt-hours and has a high power output of 2,000 watts. It’s a powerful and sustainable next-generation generator with ultra-fast charging.
Next up is the Solar Generator 300 Plus, which is one of the lightest and most portable options in the Jackery Plus series. It’s an ideal entry-level outdoor power supply, especially for those dipping their toes into the portable power market. It’s mainly for light outdoor sports enthusiasts to have a backup that helps solve their off-grid and remote power anxieties. It’s a solar generator that fits inside your backpack.
Jackery is presenting both solar generators at IFA 2023 in the Berlin Expo Center, Messedamm 22, 14055 Berlin, Germany — you can find them at Booth No. 307, Hall 3.2. But if you’re not attending, don’t fret, we’re going to explore Jackery’s latest and innovative solar generators in more detail.
Learn More Solar Generator 1000 Plus: Safe, expandable, and next-generation power Jackery Capable of powering nearly all appliances up to 2,000 watts, the Solar Generator 1000 Plus comes with a 1,264 watt-hours capacity that’s fully expandable up to 5 kilowatt-hours max with 3 battery packs. After being set up, it can power both indoor and outdoor home equipment, and not just during emergencies — although that is an excellent use of the system. Advanced IBC technology allows for ultra-fast solar charging, as it can charge to full in just two hours with the right solar panels. Inside is an LFP battery cell rated at 4,000 charge cycles, and thanks to innovative ChargeShield technology it has over 62 methods of protection.
The Solar Generator 1000 Plus is an accessible and affordable choice that combines powerful performance with relatively low prices. That opens the door for a lot more people and makes it possible to outfit your home with a backup power solution, when you normally wouldn’t be able to, especially in this economy of rapidly rising costs.
Solar Generator 300 Plus: Lightweight, portable, sustainable, and safe Jackery Unlike the SG 1000 Plus, the Solar Generator 300 Plus is built for portability and speed. It’s power on the go and pairs nicely with the book-sized solar panel that’s just as easy to stow and carry as the generator. You can charge multiple devices quickly and simultaneously, and it takes just 30 seconds to set up the entire system for use. Intelligent app controls allow you to fine-tune settings and get information readouts, like how much charging time is left, or what kind of efficiencies are active.
It’s a perfect option if you want the power and versatility of something like the Solar Generator 1000 Plus but don’t have the extra space, or don’t live a lifestyle where you need something that large. If you’re on the road, living off-grid, or just need a backup for camping then there’s no sense in opting for the larger unit. Instead, you can go with something like this, the Solar Generator 300 Plus, which nestles neatly inside a backpack and is quick and easy to use.
When do you need Jackery’s solutions? Exploring scenarios Jackery has earned a lot of awards, including the industry’s first Prestigious SEAL sustainable award, the first carbon footprint verification by TÜV SÜD, the first 0 carbon factory rating, and the first 100% green + 100% recyclable package. What does all of that mean? It’s better for the environment as a whole, especially with the solar charging support — you can break free from traditional fossil fuels.
The beauty of the Solar Generator 1000 Plus and the Solar Generator 300 Plus is that they offer the best of both worlds. With one, you get a powerful next-generation solar generator solution for your home, that’s fully expandable and modular, and you can upgrade at virtually any time. Meanwhile, the Solar Generator 300 Plus is portable, lightweight, and fits inside a backpack for outdoor use, travel, and beyond. Whether you want something powerful and more static, or something more lightweight, both of the options are serviced here and that’s phenomenal.
Most importantly these are priced reasonably so they’re more accessible and more affordable for all. That’s especially important if you don’t own a home and you’re living on the go or off-grid, as you may not have access to a steady income. Even if you’re traveling, camping, or living in a van or RV, you still need to be able to charge your modern electronics, there’s just no way around it these days. Jackery’s newest solutions make that possible, easier than ever before, and more sustainable than anything else out there. For more information, please visit Jackery.com.
Learn More Editors' Recommendations BLUETTI rolls out Black Friday specials with a brand-new power station Live in power with the Anker SOLIX F3800, its latest evolutionary power station Amazon is having a big sale on solar generators for Memorial Day Save $300 on Growatt’s Latest INFINITY 1300 Portable Power Station, Right Now EcoFlow Innovates: RIVER 2 Pro Is the Best Portable Power Station Under 1kWh Smart Home IFA Berlin Portable Power Stations Deals This content was produced in partnership with Bluetti.
When it comes to preparing for power-related events, like outages, situations where you might need portable power options, and general usage, you really need some flexible and versatile solutions at your disposal. The more manageable the gear, the more opportunities you have to adapt to current events. For example, let's say your power goes out for a few days to a week. Having a portable power solution will certainly help, but also one that can be recharged via solar energy, reliably, with just a panel or two, will significantly improve your quality of life during that period. Even if the power doesn't come back on in time, you can recharge the station to keep fueling your modern living needs. It doesn't just stop there. Yes, it's great to have backup options in a time of need, but it's also great to just have a handy solution for whatever arises. Maybe you need to power your tools to do some work in the backyard or a workshop, but don't want to run an extension cord? Boom, the portable power solution will help. What if you have a music gig coming up in a remote park or location but need to power your instruments, microphone, and lighting? Cue the portable power solution. There are a lot of different scenarios where having a power device can change the game.
That's precisely what Bluetti is offering with its AC300 and B300 expansion batteries, which offer 3,072 watt-hours of power per battery. You can recharge them via a traditional wall socket, car outlet, or lead-acid battery, but also via solar with a 2,400-watt maximum loading scale thanks to integrated smart MPPT or Maximum Power Point Tracking technology. They're portable, lightweight, and modular, as you can expand the system with more batteries at any time to increase capacity. Plus, you can use them to power nearly everything, from electronics and small appliances to lighting and beyond. To learn a little more about why they're so versatile together and as a system, keep reading.
Buy Now Power When and Where You Need It Most Deals This content was produced in partnership with Growatt.
As convenient as today's mobile devices can be, our over-reliance on electronics is not without problems; namely, having to keep all those mobile gadgets charged when you're on the move. Laptops, smartphones, tablets, smartwatches, wireless headphones, and handheld gaming systems (and this list only goes on) all require regular charging, and if you don't like being tied to a power outlet, then a portable power station is what you need. Growatt, an expert maker of smart home solar power and energy storage equipment, has just the solution in its new VITA 550, a compact and highly portable power station that's the perfect solution for keeping all your gadgets juiced up on the go. It was just released at the CES 2023 trade show with the standard price of $529. If you pre-order it before January 31, you can score a $100 early-bird discount that lets you grab one for $429 for a limited time. Between January 10 and January 31, 2023, you can also use coupon code GroVita550 to get an additional $30 off, bringing the price down to $399.
Pre-Order Now As a solar leader, Growatt has 11 years of experience in the new energy industry, and has supported over three million individuals and families. Growatt's newest product, the VITA 550 features some impressive specs on that front. For example, the 240 watt input support is one of the highest solar intake options in the 500 watt-hour capacity range. It also charges super fast thanks to the 2.5-hour rated charging times via solar, thanks to the high solar input. Most importantly, the 99% MPPT technology delivers a very low conversion loss making the solar generation for the system much more efficient and capable.
We've all run into the situation of needing to charge one or more of our portable electronic devices, only to be nowhere near a power source. It's one of the perennial problems of living in a tech-driven digital age. It's no mystery, then, why portable charging solutions have become so popular, ranging from pocket-sized power banks to large generator-like power stations capable of powering laptops and smaller kitchen appliances. The new Growatt VITA 550 falls somewhere closer to the middle of that spectrum, striking a nice balance between portability and power storage capacity.
Exploring the Growatt VITA 550 in more detail Deals This content was produced in partnership with BLUETTI.
Last year, at CES 2022, BLUETTI regaled everyone in attendance with some fantastic announcements, introducing the world's first sodium-ion solar generator in the NA300 and B480, but also with "The Apex," the long-awaited AC500 portable power station. A pioneer in the clean energy storage industry, and purveyor of excellent portable power solutions, BLUETTI is back at it again this year. Only this time, the company aims to redefine home energy with several innovative offerings, namely through modular energy storage solutions that can sustain an entire household. Of course, this is on top of BLUETTI's existing successes and its diverse range of energy storage and portable power solutions. Let's take a closer look to see what's in store for us this go-round.
Learn More Modular energy storage for the entire home: EP900 and B500 Built to deliver all-in-one energy storage for the whole home, connecting directly to any solar system with a 9-kilowatt max solar input, and connecting to any household AC wiring, the EP900 and B500 combo features a lot of power packed into a small form factor. They feature a 9-kilowatt pure sine wave output with a fully modular and expandable capacity -- allowing you to meet your family's power needs precisely. Starting at 9 kilowatt-hours with a single B500 LFP battery you can extend that up to 39.6 kilowatt-hours with 16 batteries. What's the significance? The EP900 can keep an entire house running during an outage, with minimal concessions made, for up to several days.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
