Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Deals Zendure’s SuperBase V power station is industry-first with Semi-Solid State Tech By Briley Kenney Close This content was produced in partnership with Zendure.
How can you best use the SuperBase V? Introducing the Zendure SuperBase V’s excellent features EV charging for cars, RVs, and more Pre-order the SuperBase V now It is effectively the year of the portable power station, and for good reason. In a time when grid-based power is increasingly unreliable, people are looking for alternatives, but for all-purpose use and not just for their homes. That includes during road trips, while camping, and even while living completely off-grid, whether in a van or a small cabin. While there are many such products on the market, one of the newest is Zendure’s SuperBase V, which first made an appearance at IFA 2022 in Berlin — from September 2-6. After making a big splash during the trade show, it will soon be available to order through Kickstarter, starting September 29th.
But what does the Zendure SuperBase V have to offer, and how does it set itself apart from the competition? The SuperBase V is a Home Power Storage System, and with it, Zendure aims to provide true power independence with zero compromises. With a satellite expansion module, solar power, and paired with AC outlet power, the system can be charged up to a maximum of 6.6-kolwatts. It can operate as both a generator, or portable power station, and a zero-downtime UPS system to keep the power on during an outage. You’ll have plenty of time to save your work if the power trips, for example, or you can keep gaming and get to a save spot if you’re in the middle of playing. As a more serious example, critical medical equipment can remain powered on such as a CPAP machine or breathing apparatus. Of course, there’s a lot more to it, which you can read about below. You can head over to Zendure’s website to learn more too.
Learn More How can you best use the SuperBase V? Image used with permission by copyright holder Portable power stations like Zendure’s SuperBase V might seem like an enigma to those who have never used or seen them before. Are they like traditional generators? Are they for charging mobile devices and small electronics? Can you hook them up to an RV or small living space? The answer is “yes” to all of these questions and more. You see, the SuperBase V is a plug-and-play energy storage solution for nearly any application or purpose. While it works incredibly well as a backup power solution for your home, it can also handle off-grid and on-the-go living situations. Even those who have used a portable power station before will be impressed by its versatility and how much it has to offer in terms of power independence.
Truthfully, the best answer for how you can use the SuperBase V is any way you want or deem necessary. If you already have a traditional gas-powered generator hooked up to your home’s sub-panel, you can quickly upgrade to the SuperBase V with a single cable — it takes 60 seconds or less to install. That would allow you to connect the power solution to your home grid to sustain energy for most appliances, electronics, and beyond, so the power stays on in the event of an outage. A single SBV unit can provide up to 3,800-watts of power, while two units can be chained together for up to 7,600-watts of power. That’s enough to power a house, normally, with minimal consumption changes, including appliances like a washer, dryer, heater, refrigerator, and more. So, it’s the ideal home backup power solution for days, even weeks, when failures occur. Plus, thanks to SemiSolid-State Technology — some of the most advanced in the industry — it offers enhanced safety during many unwanted power events, which is also an industry first. But don’t worry, if you don’t already have a generator installed, you can still get the SuperBase V up and running, and quickly. But unlike traditional generators, the SuperBase V is eco-friendly and produces no emissions during use, and it’s safe indoors for families too.
It delivers instant power anytime, anywhere. With 14 output ports, there are enough outlets to power any device(s) you could want, and simultaneously. What’s more, the self-powered wheels on the bottom make transporting the unit, its deployment, and moving it around your home, or campsite, super easy. You can bring it with you when you leave home, or use it at home when power is a major concern, or even use it when the power grid and power sources are not a problem. For example, you could use it in your backyard during a party to power up some speakers, an electric grill, and other necessities — without having to run messy extension cables to a nearby outlet.
Introducing the Zendure SuperBase V’s excellent features Image used with permission by copyright holder As a power station, the SuperBase V surely excels, home or away. Of course, here are some additional features that the SuperBase V offers: Industry-first Semi-Solid State home and energy storage system The first home energy storage solution with built-in 120V and 240V dual-voltage options Expandable capacity up to 64-kilowatt-hours 6.6-kilowatt max input (an industry first) 3,000-watt solar input support Time-of-use programming to help reduce energy bills Smart Home Panel with EV outlets Voice controls with Alexa or Google Home compatibility Zero-downtime uninterruptible power supply (UPS) access EV charging for cars, RVs, and more Image used with permission by copyright holder It’s one of the most portable and versatile EV charging systems ever thanks to the form factor and capacity. It can charge a vehicle for up to 20 miles of use in just 1.6 hours, and you can always add a Satellite Expansion Battery to double the miles for an even better charge. By pairing the SuperBase V with the Zendure Smart Home Panel — which is sold separately — you can charge up to two vehicles at once.
The 3,000-watt solar input, AC and DC output and motorized wheels mean it’s perfect for on-the-go and off-road use too. It will become your RV’s new best friend, and you’ll probably never go on a trip without it once you have it in your kit. By adding four of the Satellite Expansion Batteries the capacity increases to 25.6-kilowatt-hours of energy storage. Those batteries can also independently supply the RV with power, and collect solar power to recharge, without being connected to the main unit. So you’re getting a fully modular system that works independently, right alongside your power station, if you grab some of the extra batteries.
Pre-order the SuperBase V now Image used with permission by copyright holder Starting September 29th at 9 AM PST, Zendure’s SuperBase V Kickstarter campaign will be available, which means you can pre-order the unit and its accessories ahead of its official launch. This is not the first time a portable power station was funded via a crowdfunding platform, but it is one of the most exciting, especially considering the SuperBase V is so versatile.
We can’t wait to see how it’s being used by people in the real world, whether to solve complex power concerns at home or on the open road while living truly off-grid. You can always find more information at the Zendure SBV Facebook group, as well.
Learn More Editors' Recommendations BLUETTI rolls out Black Friday specials with a brand-new power station Live in power with the Anker SOLIX F3800, its latest evolutionary power station Save $300 on Growatt’s Latest INFINITY 1300 Portable Power Station, Right Now Bluetti’s AC300 and B300 Combo Provides True Power Versatility and Reliability Growatt VITA 550 portable power station keeps all your devices charged on the go Smart Home Portable Power Stations Deals This content was produced in partnership with BLUETTI.
Last year, at CES 2022, BLUETTI regaled everyone in attendance with some fantastic announcements, introducing the world's first sodium-ion solar generator in the NA300 and B480, but also with "The Apex," the long-awaited AC500 portable power station. A pioneer in the clean energy storage industry, and purveyor of excellent portable power solutions, BLUETTI is back at it again this year. Only this time, the company aims to redefine home energy with several innovative offerings, namely through modular energy storage solutions that can sustain an entire household. Of course, this is on top of BLUETTI's existing successes and its diverse range of energy storage and portable power solutions. Let's take a closer look to see what's in store for us this go-round.
Learn More Modular energy storage for the entire home: EP900 and B500 Built to deliver all-in-one energy storage for the whole home, connecting directly to any solar system with a 9-kilowatt max solar input, and connecting to any household AC wiring, the EP900 and B500 combo features a lot of power packed into a small form factor. They feature a 9-kilowatt pure sine wave output with a fully modular and expandable capacity -- allowing you to meet your family's power needs precisely. Starting at 9 kilowatt-hours with a single B500 LFP battery you can extend that up to 39.6 kilowatt-hours with 16 batteries. What's the significance? The EP900 can keep an entire house running during an outage, with minimal concessions made, for up to several days.
Deals This content was produced in partnership with Jackery.
It's here, and now it's time to save big on portable power stations and everything that goes with them, like solar panels and beyond. Why is this such a big deal? Because portable power stations, big and small, can be quite pricey, but there's no denying how incredibly practical and convenient they are. No brand has had more time in the market than Jackery, with loads of portable power options ready to choose from. Of course, the Black Friday deals mean you can save quite a bit, with Jackery offering over $1,000 off and one of the biggest discounts ever! That's not the only thing to get excited about. Jackery is also hosting its 10th Anniversary event, which comes with a plethora of giveaways. To learn more about what's going on and to see some of the fantastic deals, keep reading.
Deals This content was produced in partnership with Jackery.
As far as portable power solutions go, few brands have been in the market as long as Jackery, especially since Jackery's 10th Anniversary celebration is happening right now. But while that's impressive, what's more exciting is that Jackery's Black Friday deals will soon be live too, from November 24 to November 28. During that time, they're going to offer the biggest discount ever on Jackery solutions -- up to $1,080 off. It's libations all around, and for good reason. With the holiday shopping events and Jackery's 10th Anniversary wedged together, a lot is going on that you'll want to be involved with. For example, Jackery's Crazy Monday Giveaway will feature an unmissable mega giveaway -- and we do mean mega -- with prizes worth up to $250,000 in total value. Yeah, we know, it's a lot to take in, so keep reading to learn some of the finer details about the Black Friday sale and Jackery's Anniversary event.
First, let's talk about the giveaway, which will be live on Jackery's official website and YouTube channel. They'll be picking winners during their livestream starting November 28. We don’t know everything they'll be giving away, but it will be a total of $250,000 in prizes. Jackery has teamed up with Black Series to give away camper vans. Plus, there will be money back opportunities for Jackery orders placed during Black Friday, and many, many more prizes beyond that! Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
