Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Smart Home Deals BLUETTI’s Easter Sale Offers a Fun Egg Hunt On the Go By Briley Kenney Close Image used with permission by copyright holder This content was produced in partnership with BLUETTI.
Save Big on Portable Power and Conserve Energy, Build Independence, and Help the Environment BLUETTI’s Easter Sale is Here When Bluetti’s Easter Sale officially kicks off on April 7th there’s a whole lot more than just money to be saved. Of course, they’re going to have stand-out offers and discounts on BLUETTI portable power products, including home battery systems, portable power stations, solar panels, and more. But it’s also a fun little egg hunt for anyone that wants to save or give the gift of sustainable power to friends and family. You’ll have the chance to save up to $1,000 on select gear, like a bundle that includes the EB3A portable power station and PV120 solar panel — to keep it charged. Normally $618, that bundle is available during the sale for $523, saving you $139. Or BLUETTI’s fantastic bundle with the AC500 solar generator and B300S extra battery , as a smart home battery backup system, for $4,799, down from $5,099, which saves you a cool $300. There are plenty more great deals to check out below, or just hop on over to BLUETTI to shop the sale.
Shop the Sale Save Big on Portable Power and Conserve Energy, Build Independence, and Help the Environment Image used with permission by copyright holder This sale couldn’t have come at a better time. With Easter a period for renewal, family, and uplifting messages, the BLUETTI sale helps promote a brighter future. How? Well, in several ways, including through improved power independence. With an investment in a portable power station or home battery backup system, you’re eliminating your reliance on traditional power and fossil-fuel-based energy sources. You can fall back on the BLUETTI power systems any time, not just during an outage but also when you want to conserve energy overall.
Because the systems are so portable, you can tap into off-grid power just about anywhere, backyard, camping, or even beachside. That ensures you’re not reliant on traditional power, regardless of where you are. You’d be surprised by the benefits that offers the environment and your local community. Plus, with increased demand over the Easter holiday, whether you have family visiting or not, you’ll be happy to have the backup power solutions in play. It will definitely save you a few dollars on your power bill. Power outages can actually be pretty common during this time, as well, and BLUETTI’s solutions will keep you powered on, enjoying your company, and doing what you love most during those events, from cooking to watching your favorite shows and movies.
BLUETTI’s Easter Sale is Here Since the BLUETTI Easter Sale includes a lot of different items it’s best to just list out a few of the top options. But you’ll definitely want to go check it out for yourself, because so many of its systems, batteries, portable power stations, and even some accessories are discounted. Now’s a great time to stock up on BLUETTI gear ahead of storm season, or for a rainy day. Or, if you need to upgrade, expand the capacity of your existing system, or grab an accessory or two, like the Smart Home Panel , well, you’d be saving quite a bit.
Here are a few of the notable BLUETTI systems on sale: BLUETTI Portable Solar Panels — Save up to $200 EB3A + PV120 Solar Panel — $479, was $618 EB70S Portable Power Station — $1,038, was $1,098 AC200MAX Expandable Power Station — $1,859, was $1,959 EP500Pro Solar Power Station — $4,299, was $4,599 AC500 + B300S Home Backup System — $4,799, was $5,099 BLUETTI’s Easter Sale will be running from April 7 until April 18, so you have just over a week to save big on solar generators, panels, portable power stations, or whatever else you might need. Our top pick would be any of the bundles that include the AC500 solar power generator and B300S extra batteries to help sustain your family’s power during an outage or major event. There are a lot of other options too, in a variety of price ranges depending on what your budget is. Regardless, the egg hunt is on over at BLUETTI and you should go have some fun.
Shop the Sale Editors' Recommendations BLUETTI rolls out Black Friday specials with a brand-new power station It’s time for a new kind of portable power: Yoshino B4000 SST This Herman Miller-style office chair is $96 in Walmart Black Friday sale There’s a big early Black Friday sale on blood pressure monitors Usually $399, this Shark cordless vacuum is on sale for $198 Portable Power Stations Smart Home As part of Best Buy's early Black Friday deals, there are some steep discounts on all kinds of security camera systems including those from Arlo, Blink, and Ring. With so many security camera deals available, we recommend clicking the button below to see the options for yourself. After all, you know exactly what you're looking for, right? If you don't, there's no need to worry as we're here to make some recommendations to guide you on the right path. Let's take a look at them.
What to shop for in the Best Buy security camera system sale One name that consistently stands out among the best home security cameras world is Arlo. That's why we'd strongly recommend checking out the Smart Home One of the best Ninja Foodi deals today comes courtesy of Best Buy. You can buy the ever versatile Ninja Foodi Power Blender & Processor system for $180 saving you $20 off the regular price of $200. These don't go on sale too often, so even a small deal like this is worth grabbing. This Ninja Foodi is ideally suited for anyone aiming for a healthier and tastier way of living. Let's take a look at what it offers before you hit the buy button.
Why you should buy the Ninja Foodi Power Blender & Processor System The Ninja Foodi Power Blender & Processor System combines everything you need from one of the best blenders and one of the best food processors. It offers a seven ounce power blender and processor pitcher, along with a smoothie bowl maker, blender, food processor, and dough mixer. Its 14 ounce smoothie bowl maker is able to power through frozen foods with less liquid so you get a perfect smoothie bowl every time. It also has a 24 ounce Nutrient Extraction Cup and Spout Lid with better breakdown for smoother extractions leading to tastier smoothies or frozen drinks.
Smart Home Best Buy just launched early Black Friday deals for various smart home devices by Google Nest, including security cameras, video doorbells, and smart thermostats. There are 20 offers in total so it shouldn't take you too much time to go through them, but you should be hurrying because these bargains may disappear at any moment. With Google Nest among the most trusted brands for smart home setups, stocks for some of these products may be gone sooner than you expect, so if you see something you like, push through with the purchase as soon as you can.
What to buy in Best Buy's Google Nest sale If you're looking for security camera deals, the Google Nest Cam is highly recommended in our roundup of the best home security cameras for its Google Assistant integration. It's currently available for Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
