Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Outdoors Reviews Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Geneverse HomePower Two Pro review: all the power you can lift By Nick Mokey Close $2,499.00 Huge 2.4kWh capacity Outperforms rated 2,200-Watt output Sturdy build quality Attractive minimalist design Speedy recharge time under 2 hours Expensive for the capacity App won’t work without Wi-Fi No wheels, 12V or 30A RV output If Jackery is the Subaru of the portable power station world – rugged, capable, and adventurous – Geneverse might be the Lexus – staid, reliable, and luxurious. As the name implies, the HomePower line is intended less for off-the-grid campers to refrigerate their microbrews , and more for families to make sure the milk doesn’t spoil the next time a storm rolls through.
Is that a Mac? The heat is on User interface and app Solar options Power to spare, for a premium Geneverse’s largest model, the HomePower Two Pro, goes big on capacity to promise “seven days of essential power.” While that number will obviously differ for every user, we found that it lives up to its sterling promises of capacity and output, and we’d be happy to have one stowed in the basement for the next big outage.
Power Station Tera 1000 promises to recharge in two hours flat Fathom Pro uses the power of A.I. so you can run longer, recover quicker Goal Zero Yeti Tank and Yeti Link expand home power storage options Is that a Mac? The HomePower’s intended domestic habitat comes across in the clean, appliance-like design, which almost calls to mind the way Apple might design a power station. It has a minimalist, unobtrusive look that you probably wouldn’t mind leaving on your kitchen counter for a few days, unlike the loud outdoorsy aesthetic of Jackery, or the alien look of Anker.
Image used with permission by copyright holder The flat top makes an ideal spot to rest gadgets as you charge them, and the burly handles built into the side don’t flex or groan – this thing is built like an anvil. We’d appreciate wheels on our anvil, though. At 61 pounds, the HomePower Pro Two is right at the limit of what many people will be able to comfortably (or safely) lift solo.
With 2.4kWh of battery capacity, the HomePower Pro tops its class for a standalone power station this size. The competing Anker 767 (2.0kW) and Jackery Solar Generator 2000 (2.2kWh) can’t touch it, and while the EcoFlow Delta Pro bests it with 3.6kWh, it also weighs a backbreaking 99 pounds, so it’s not truly in the same class. An output of 2,200 watts is right on par with most units this size and means the Geneverse will essentially power almost anything you can plug into a 20A home outlet.
The HomePower Two Pro didn’t flinch at a 1,300-watt space heater running on high.
Despite the impressive power it packs, the HomePower Two Pro comes up light on ports. We can excuse three AC outlets instead of the usual four – that’s easy to solve with a power strip – but the lack of a 12V car socket is pretty inexcusable for a system this size. RVers will also be disappointed by the lack of a 30A outlet, which the Anker 767 and Bluetti AC200MAX both pack. Neither port is strictly necessary for a home backup scenario, but it’s disappointing to see them omitted when cheaper models include them.
The heat is on All those numbers mean nothing if the Geneverse can’t deliver when the power is down, so to prove the Geneverse can deliver every bit of its claimed 2,200-watt output, we rounded up a rogue’s gallery of electricity hogs and got to work plugging them in. When the HomePower Two Pro didn’t flinch at a 1,300-watt space heater running on high, we threw caution to the wind and gave it a veritable torture test by also flicking on a 1,500-watt heat gun.
Somehow, despite reading 2,764 watts, nearly 600 more than it’s rated for, the Geneverse held strong for 30 seconds before eventually shutting itself down. This isn’t a load you’d want to continually expose the unit to, but it was impressive to see how long it would sweat it out above its limit.
To test its surge capacity, we tried connecting the HomePower Two to a 13-inch DeWalt planer, a small pancake air compressor, and a 12-inch DeWalt miter saw that has been known to trip the 20A breakers in my garage on startup. While it handled the first two, the miter saw proved to be too much – it triggered an error and shut off the saw every time. Anker’s 767, in contrast, managed to handle it without issue.
Image used with permission by copyright holder When it’s time to fuel up, the Geneverse doesn’t fool around, slamming about 1,450 watts from the wall for total recharge times under two hours. That’s a hair lower than the rated 1,500 watts but still impressive.
User interface and app The screen on the Geneverse is like nearly every other power station we’ve ever reviewed, which is a good thing. It’s a simple layout (input on the left, output on the right, charge capacity in a center ring) that doesn’t need reinvention.
Like most power stations in this price class, the Geneverse HomePower Two Pro comes with an iOS and Android app to keep tabs on power away when you’re away from the screen. You get all the same information from the screen, plus some more advanced options that would be too difficult to program with buttons. For instance, you can set timers to power different circuits on and off at designated times, which could be useful to cut down on standby consumption. You can also switch to a battery-saving mode to prolong its life, or monitor usage statistics.
Image used with permission by copyright holder The only notable omission is the ability to set a cap for charging wattage, which you’ll miss if you start popping breakers with this monster’s 1,450-watt charging rate. The next best thing is a “quiet mode,” which caps input around 530 watts and turns off the fans.
One maddening thing about the app: it connects via Wi-Fi rather than Bluetooth. That means that during a power outage where your router may be knocked out, or when camping, the app won’t connect. Competing apps from Anker and Bluetti use Bluetooth, which makes much more sense.
Solar options With two 8020 solar connectors (big DC barrel jacks) on the back, the HomePower Two Pro can handle up to a combined 800W of solar input. That’s frankly more than you’ll probably be able to achieve with the offered accessories. Geneverse offers folding panels in 100- and 200-watt-per-panel flavors. You’d need four of the latter to hit capacity – a $2,516 purchase.
That’s expensive even by the marked-up standards of portable solar panels. A single 200-watt Geneverse panel goes for $629, while Anker only charges $549 for its panel, and Bluetti charges $449. All three use monocrystalline cells and claim 23% efficiency, but different connectors on the competitors would prevent you from simply using a competing panel with this power station unless you want to get into adapters.
We’ll give Geneverse credit for staying cutting-edge in its solar tech — it’s one of only a couple of companies that offer bifacial solar panels, which can absorb reflected light from behind them, making them more efficient. Geneverse sent us a pair for evaluation, and we’ll be providing an update on performance after a more thorough evaluation.
Power to spare, for a premium If you need every drop of its best-in-class 2.4kWh capacity, the $2,499 Geneverse Homepower Pro Two makes a capable and reliable home backup solution. You’re paying a big premium to be at the top of the heap on capacity in this size, but the clean design and five-year warranty make it a little easier to swallow.
If you can live with just a fraction less capacity, a number of other alternatives offer more features for less money. The Jackery Explorer 2000 Pro brings a 12V DC output for $2,099, the Anker 767 brings a smarter design with wheels and a telescoping handle for $1,999, and both the EcoFlow Delta Max 2000 and Bluetti AC200MAX offer modular expandability for $1,599 and $1,699, respectively.
Editors' Recommendations EcoFlow launches Delta 2 Max solar generator for home emergencies and outdoor adventures Generark HomePower 2 emergency backup generator can charge EVs and much more This portable power station has 6 AC outlets and can charge a Tesla Portable Power Stations Power Station Reviews Outdoors EcoFlow, a manufacturer of portable energy solutions, has announced the launch of the Delta 2 Max -- an eco-friendly solar generator that could replace your current gas generator. The device clocks in at 2,048 watts and should deliver enough power to keep your home running for two days as an emergency backup (or many more if you’re using it as an off-grid power source).
The original Delta Max was a popular item for outdoor adventures, as it could connect to the existing lineup of portable EcoFlow solar panels to juice up gadgets while out in the backcountry. That legacy continues with the Delta 2 Max, which features an upgraded lithium iron phosphate (LFP) battery for a longer life cycle and faster charging.
Outdoors Warm weather is here, and so is grilling season. Now is as good a time as any to set out in search of one of the best outdoor grills, and it’s never a bad time to keep an eye out for a discount on one as well. Whether you’re a grilling beginner ready for some burgers with the family or a seasoned pro looking to host summer gatherings around one of the best smart grills and smokers, we’ve tracked down all of the details you need to land a deal on a grill that’s right for your needs. Read onward for more details.
Everdure CUBE charcoal grill — $150, was $199 The Everdure CUBE charcoal grill is a unique little grill that can truly go almost anywhere with you. It’s lightweight and only 17-inches long, yet still can handle almost any grilling challenge a griller on the go could hope to throw at it. It has a built-in heat protection shield and chrome handles that remain cool while cooking, and the removable charcoal tray offers easy cleanup when you’re finished at the campground or on the beach. Wherever you intend to do some grilling this summer, the Everdure CUBE charcoal grill is a great option as a copilot.
Outdoors The best electric bikes have come a long way in recent years and we don't just mean in terms of the miles you travel. With technology changing quickly, there are also an increasing number of electric bike deals around and we've picked out some of the very best. Electric bikes are a great way of getting around more easily and without necessarily needing to use as much stamina as a regular bike. Below, you'll find fantastic e-bike bike deals from many different retailers. There'll be something for every need here. Let's take a look at them.
Jasion EB5 Electric Bike -- $430, was $750 With a 350w brushless motor, the Jasion EB5 Electric Bike can achieve a top speed of 20 MPH with a range of up to 25-40 miles per charge. It has four working modes with a PAS mode where the motor assists with a moderate amount of power as you pedal, along with a Pure Electric Mode, a Pedal Mode, and a Booster Mode where the bike assist on hills and anywhere else you might be struggling. 26-inch puncture-resistant tires provide excellent durability while there's a high-strength front fork suspension, Shimano 7-speed gears, dual lights, and an LCD display. The latter offers controls for adjustable backlight brightness with one of five levels, along with mode controls.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
