Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Outdoors Deals Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? October Prime Day: Save 40% on this portable solar generator By Albert Bassili Close Image used with permission by copyright holder It’s not often we see Prime Day deals on bigger battery banks like the Jackery Portable Power Station Explorer 300, which is a shame considering how useful they have become in the past few years for those who like going camping or who may have to deal with power outages. Luckily, you can pick up this impressive power station from Amazon for $210, rather than the $350 retail price it’s usually going for, which is a significant $140 discount.
Why you should buy the Jackery Portable Power Station Explorer 300 The Jackery Portable Power Station Explorer 300 has a lot in common with the Jackery Explorer 1000 , with the main difference being a smaller capacity, so if you want a more in-depth review, it’s worth checking that one out. Even with the smaller capacity, the Explorer 300 still has 293Wh of backup charge, roughly the same as 30 phone recharges or 40 hours of playing on a Nintendo Switch, which, as you can imagine, is a lot. It also comes with many ports: two AC plugs, a PD 60W USB-C, two USB-As, and a 12-volt car output, so you have a lot of versatility in how you want to charge your gear. There’s a thick DC input to charge the Explorer 300 up to 80% in an impressive two hours from a wall outlet, and even better, you can use it while it charges.
If you’re out in the wilderness, the Jackery Portable Power Station Explorer 300 it can be charged with its Solarsaga 100 solar panels, which plug into the DC input. Unfortunately, you’ll have to grab those separately, but if you do, you can get an 80% charge in three and a half hours under ideal conditions. The Jackery Explorer 300 also comes with an MPPT controller, which helps regulate the speed of the solar charge and lets it work at its maximum for faster charging.
Whether you want the Jackery Explorer 300 for camping or emergencies, it’s a great little backup power station, and you’re even getting a great deal on it from Amazon with its $140 discount down to $210. That said, be sure to check out the rest of the Prime Early Access Sale for some additional options.
Editors' Recommendations Ninja’s new outdoor grill just got a big price cut for Prime Day in October Save $300 on Growatt’s Latest INFINITY 1300 Portable Power Station, Right Now This Co-op Cycles e-bike is over $500 off during the REI Labor Day sale Save big on the new Zendure SuperBase Pro 2000 power station Create the ultimate home energy solution with EcoFlow’s Smart Home Panel Deals Amazon Portable Power Stations Deals So you've finally decided to take the leap and plan out a big outdoor adventure. However, you want to bring a few electronic gadgets with you - your phone for emergencies, maybe some speakers for music, and a laptop in case you need to do work. How do you charge all of them when you're in the woods? You can keep all these devices juiced up by picking up this portable power station that is one of the best Amazon Black Friday deals. The Jackery Explorer 300 is a top-notch portable battery that you can get for just $300 today, which is $50 off the original price of $350. Keep reading to learn more about one of the best Black Friday deals for thriving in the outdoors.
When we reviewed the Jackery Explorer 1000, we praised it for its versatility, power output, and highly rigid construction. Its little brother, the Jackery Explorer 300, has many of the same features in a smaller package. This device packs a 293Wh battery, which can charge a phone up to 31 times or a camera up to 15 times. There's a variety of plugs for different devices. For traditional devices, there are two AC 110W/300W pure-sine wave outlets. If your devices are USB-based, there are two USB-A charging ports, one of which is equipped with QuickCharge 3.0 technology. There's also a lightning-fast USB-C power-delivery port that works as both an input and output slot and can deliver up to 60W of power for laptops and fast-charging phones.
Outdoors Whether you love outdoor adventures like dispersed camping, you're living in an area that's prone to power outages, or both, a solar generator will prove to be a very valuable tool. They don't usually come cheap, but Amazon is offering discounts on solar generators today, so you might want to take advantage of this opportunity to get one for a lower price than usual.
A solar generator is an essential item from DT's brother site The Manual's checklist for going off the grid, but it's also important for your peace of mind as it will be of immense help for the situations when you'll need one. Here's your chance to buy one with a discount, as Amazon is selling the FlashFish 300W Solar Generator at $70 off, lowering its price to $153 from its original price of $223; the Progeny 300W Portable Power Station at $24 off with an additional $40 off upon checkout, bringing its price down to $206 from its original price of $270; and the Jackery Portable Power Station Explorer 500 at $100 off with an additional $50 off upon checkout, reducing its price to $450 from its original price of $600.
FlashFish 300W Solar Generator – $153, was $224 Progeny 300W Portable Power Station – $206, was $270 Jackery Portable Power Station Explorer 500 – $450, was $600 Deals No one wants to run out of power in a blackout, especially now that so many of us work from home, that’s why these generator deals are coming at such an important time. Right now, Amazon is offering a flash sale on all kinds of generators; you can save as much as $100 on a brand new generator that can not only provide power in times of need (or just for a cookout) but can provide peace of mind all year round. Check out these deals: FlashFish 300W Solar Generator 60,000mAh Portable Power Station -- $170, was $223 What’s amazing about this solar-powered generator is that it’s not much bigger than your average game console, but it packs an incredible amount of power. With 300W of power, this portable generator can recharge all kinds of household gadgets (fully juiced up, it can charge your MacBook Pro five times, your mini-fridge for five hours, or your 32-inch TV for four hours). And the battery pack can be recharged by the sun (solar panel sold separately), making it ideal for outdoor adventures or camping. Weighing only 5.6 pounds, with a neat, compact design and carrying handle, as well as an AC outlet, two DC ports, USB 1 and 2 ports, this might be the ultimate small-size portable generator.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
