Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending in Computing: Best Dell Laptops ChatGPT Best Monitors Asus ROG Azoth Review How to delete a page in Word in 3 easy steps RTX 4080 vs RTX 4070 Ti Best Mac Apps AMD vs Intel Recall an Email in Outlook Home Computing Features Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? This magic Photoshop feature has changed how I edit photos forever By Jon Martindale Close Adobe “Magic” might be a bit of a hyperbolic term when it comes to technology, but as science fiction writer Arthur C. Clarke’s third law states: “Any sufficiently advanced technology is indistinguishable from magic.” Photoshop is very boring Generative Fill makes the boring easy We’re just scratching the surface That’s what the Generative Fill feature in the current Photoshop beta release feels like. It’s speeding up how I edit photos in dramatic fashion, and making me better at Photoshop in the process.
Photoshop is very boring With Generative Fill, you can just select what you don’t want to be there anymore, select Generate, and it does the rest.
Image used with permission by copyright holder I started learning Photoshop about 20 years ago in college. But while that helped me learn where everything in the toolbar was, I really cut my teeth on it by making forum signatures and desktop backgrounds with lots of filters just to see what would happen. Throw in a photography course where I played around with lighting and blending options, and I had a firm foundation for the career that lay ahead of me.
This hidden menu has forever changed how I use my Mac 5 amazing AI features in Photoshop you can use now Premiere Pro has a new breakthrough feature to speed up editing Editing product photos.
I’m not complaining. I love my job and I enjoyed my time doing lots of product reviews for various sites, but the Photoshop portion of it was decidedly tiresome. It was basically the same thing every time: cut out the portions of the background that I could through painfully slow manual selection, or use the dodge tool to white it out as best I could. I’d tweak the levels and colors, sure, but the biggest job was taking out unwanted elements, whiting out the background, and getting the image in the right aspect ratio.
While I don’t do that quite so much these days, it’s still a regular part of my work. That’s where the Generative Fill feature comes in — and it’s changed my workflow forever.
Generative Fill makes the boring easy Check out Adobe’s promotional page for Generative Fill and you’ll find all sorts of fantastical images it’s created. It’s trying to tap into that wonder around Dall-E and Midjourney.
 It wants to inspire you to use its tool (rather than the others) to produce AI-created images that will attract attention.
Adobe makes Generative Fill out to be some super-advanced, crazy-detailed tool for creative work. And it is. But I’ve found it works just as well for getting all the most boring jobs done faster.
Generative Fill is so, so good at removing elements from an image that I rarely do any of it manually any more. Got a photo with some text on it you really don’t need? Generative Fill can strip that text right out and you’d never even know it was there. This probably works well with watermarks on photos, but I don’t think I can legally advise you to do that. So I won’t.
Is it perfect? No. But it took less than a minute to do what would have taken half an hour before.
Image used with permission by copyright holder In the above example, you can see what a very quick Generative Fill request does to an image that is riddled with text and logos. Now, in this case the fill has removed the biker and robots from the scene. I could probably have been more careful and selected only the 240Hz logo and corner images, but I could also have removed it all manually. And doing it with Generative Fill took around 30 seconds to select everything, and another 20 while the cloud processing finished. The end result is more than good enough.
It’s not just good at taking things away from images, though. It’s great at adding to them, too. I don’t mean adding random elements to a scene — although it can do that — but in increasing the size of an image. Generative Fill can expand an image in one direction or many. This can be super useful when you’re trying to make an image hit a certain aspect ratio (did you know all our images are 3:2 or 16:9?), or if you want to make a small picture bigger.
The above Meta Quest 3 image is great, but it’s not big enough. So I take the crop tool, drag out each of the sides, hit Generate and a few seconds later I have a bigger image that you’d never be able to tell was AI enhanced.
Need to remove the background on something? Generative Fill can do it in seconds. Even with complicated hair and other elements.
With Generative Fill, you can remove a background with the click of a button.
Unsplash I could have done a better job by hand, but not by much — and it would have taken me ages.
We’re just scratching the surface As useful as these tools already are, we’re only scratching the surface of their potential. Not only have I still got lots of time to play around with it and find new ways to enhance my workflow and hobby editing efforts, but the technology is getting better all the time. Who knows what it’ll be capable of in the not-too-distant future? At the very least, auto leveling and coloring is going to get a lot better over the next year or two.
Seriously, just look at the above video. I barely even touch what it can do now, and it’s constantly getting better.
Unfortunately, however, being this early does mean the entire process is subject to change.
Adobe recently introduced a credit system for Generative Fill, so you can’t use this feature to your heart’s content. If you have a Photoshop subscription, you’ll get 500 credits a month, though, so you’re unlikely to run through them too quickly. For $20 a month, that doesn’t seem bad.
Now, we just need AMD and Intel to hurry up with their AI accelerators , so we can run this kind of process locally. A boy can dream.
Editors' Recommendations You can finally use Adobe’s game-changing AI features in Photoshop, Premiere, and After Effects Midjourney’s new zoom-out feature is becoming the next big AI sensation This new Photoshop tool could bring AI magic to your images Adobe adds AI magic to Photoshop and Premiere Elements Photoshop will soon allow you to swap out boring skies automatically using A.I.
Features Photography With an eight-core A12X processor, the iPad Pro (2018) promised enough power to handle tasks normally reserved for laptop computers -- and photographers took note. At launch, the iPad's processor, Liquid Retina screen, and ultra-thin profile held big promise for creative pros on the go.
Unfortunately, the reality was less dazzling than the dream, dampened by the inability to use external storage and the annoyance of uploading photos twice if you wanted to use something other than Apple's default Photos app, such as Adobe Lightroom.
Photography Photoshop for iPad has a ways to go before the mobile version is as robust as the desktop software -- but that’s not stopping the new app from making a few firsts along the way. On Monday, December 16, Adobe launched Select Subject on Photoshop for iPad. Adobe says that the tool is a first for any iPad app, with no other apps offering a selection tool that’s simultaneously as powerful and simple.
Like the desktop tool, Select Subject uses machine learning to analyze the image and make a selection around the subject. The tool uses multiple algorithms to create the finished selection, including one to actually find the subject and one to create a sharp edge with minimal artifacts. While using multiple algorithms, the tool works in one tap.
Photography The most well-known photo editor is no longer chained to a desktop. On November 4, Adobe launched Photoshop for iPad, along with a list of updates to make the traditional Photoshop a bit less traditional, including a new Object Selection tool, one-click background removal, and updates to the interface. Adobe also announced Photoshop Camera for iOS and Android, and updates to Premiere Pro and Premiere Rush.
Photoshop for iPad Teased last year during Adobe Max, Photoshop for iPad made its official debut at the start of this year’s event. While the goal is to eventually bring the same tools available for desktop to the iPad, as Adobe said last year, the first release of the iPad app is lighter than the robust desktop editor. Adobe says the first version focuses on composting, basic retouching, masking and the most commonly used Photoshop processes.
While the iPad version doesn’t have all the bells and whistles yet, Photoshop for iPad is built on the same code base as the original Photoshop, unlike Adobe’s previous Photoshop-inspired mobile apps like Photoshop Fix. Photo editors and designers can work with layers and more, and open the same PSD files in the desktop program.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
