Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Audio / Video Features The tech behind U2’s mind-bending, spherical reality in Las Vegas By Phil Nickinson Close Irish rock band U2 plays in front of a visualized Las Vegas Strip as seen on the 16K-by-16K spherical display inside the Sphere.
Rich Fury / MSG I recall sitting in the back of a Las Vegas taxi in January 2022. CES was upon us. While Las Vegas is extra on a typical Tuesday, CES week ramps things up to a totally different level. The pandemic meant a couple of years without having to do the CES thing, and Vegas reinvents itself in the blink of an eye.
That still didn’t explain the giant black orb that seemed to pop out of nowhere on Sands Avenue.
“What the hell is that?” I muttered in the back of that cab. I’d soon learn that it was a new event space and was going to be covered with LEDs, inside and out. At the time, though, the opening was 18 months away, and all it seemed to be was a big, black sphere.
We know differently now, of course.
The Sphere opened in late September 2023, with Irish rock band U2 having set up shop with some three dozen shows for “U2:UV Achtung Baby Live at Sphere” scheduled through mid-February 2024. Thousands and thousands of fortunate fans have already experienced the spectacle. Millions more of us have gotten glimpses through cell phone video and online videos. And while that certainly doesn’t do it justice, even that tiny, two-dimensional peek inside makes it pretty clear Sphere hosts the sort of futuristic live experience that simply hasn’t been done before. (And none of this includes what you might see on the outside of Sphere.) So we have some idea of the magic that goes on inside, during the show. We wanted to get a glimpse of what powers it all. What makes that magic happen.
The incredible imagery isn’t just behind U2 inside the Sphere — it’s above and around the band, too.
Rich Fury / MSG “There’s nothing that we couldn’t do in terms of, you know, if we have an idea, we could certainly make it happen,” Brandon Kraemer tells me. He served as a technical director with Treatment Studio , a London-based creative agency that has worked with U2 for years. Kraemer says that line casually, as if creating mind-bending visuals behind one of the world’s biggest bands is an everyday experience for Treatment. But the fact is that U2 and Treatment have been at this for a while. Even before Sphere opened, U2 shows have been known for their visuals — The Joshua Tree 30th anniversary tour and Experience + Innocence tour, to name two in recent memory — and Treatment Studio (founded by Willie Williams and Sam Pattison) was a driving force behind that.
“There’s nothing we couldn’t do. If we had an idea, we could certainly make it happen.” But in an industry — and in a city like Las Vegas — in which huge visual spectacles are table stakes, even a venue like Sphere was going to have to do something different. Bigger and brighter. Once Sphere is filled with more than 18,000 fans, and a band, and the internal surfaces are lit up with 160,000 square feet of LEDs at 16K resolution for 256 million individual pixels — yes, you read that right — then toss in the fact that you’re doing all this in the shape of a sphere? There’s no way it wasn’t going to be incredible.
And it turns out that shape isn’t actually the hardest part.
Perspective and reality play tricks on the audience during “The Fly” at the U2 show inside the Sphere in Las Vegas.
Rich Fury / MSG “The daunting aspect of this isn’t the fact that it’s, you know, spherical,” Kraemer says. “It’s the fact that the resolution is 16K by 16K. … We actually broke several pieces of software along the way. We certainly reached limits of what most computing power can do, and most software that we usually designed with can do.” That’s a lot of pixels to push. And pushing them is Disguise — another big name in this space that powers the shows for many of the world’s best.
 To oversimplify things more than a bit, if Treatment is on the creative side of the equation, Disguise plays a giant part in the hardware and software platforms. This isn’t quite off-the-shelf stuff, either. (Though Disguise has a web-based, 3-dimensional pre-visualization platform that’s pretty fascinating to see in action.) We’re talking major servers and hard drives for the ridiculous amount of data that goes into a Sphere show.
Peter Kirkup, Solutions and Innovation Director at Disguise, says of the Disguise hardware being used for the U2 show: “They have upgraded hard drives in the machine. So we’ve got 30 terabytes of storage on every single machine inside our system there. But we’re also interfacing with a bespoke system, which is in the house, which is driving the LED pixels.” That’s not just 30 terabytes on a single server, mind you. There are 23 of those things ( GX 3 servers , if you must know) at work, for 690 terabytes of storage. Some of that is for the live graphics behind (and above and around) the band. Some are for redundancy and other production power.
Treatment’s Kraemer is quick to say that “the Disguise hardware has been amazing.” Twenty-three specialized servers with a total of 690 terabytes of storage power the visuals for U2 inside the Sphere.
“We have a lot of experience working with Disguise servers,” he says. “We know what they’re capable of, we’ve used them on every U2 tour that I can think of. In fact, every show that I’ve worked on in this industry, I’ve worked on with Disguise servers. They had the capabilities of what we wanted to be able to do in terms of integrating image magnification into content in a very seamless way.” You don’t have to have actually experienced a U2 show at Sphere (or any other U2 show, for that matter — the band’s relationship with Disguise goes back nearly two decades) to understand that seamless immersion is the name of the game. That’s apparent even in the countless TikToks that do their best to share what it’s like to be there.
Phones are a common sight at all concerts these days, but especially at the U2 shows at the Sphere in Las Vegas. On the display is “Surrender (Flag) 2023” from Irish artist John Gerrard.
Rich Fury / MSG “The fantastic thing about the Sphere is it’s a shared experience,” Kirkup says. “So you’ve got 18,000 other people also feeling that, and there’s that collective response of the audience in there, which, largely, I don’t think audiences have felt yet. This is a new thing. This is a new way of building shows and a new way of creating that emotion.” Even cell phone videos seem to convey that “new way” Kirkup and Kraemer talk about. It looks like sort of a real-life, high-resolution VR adventure. Which is, of course, the point. The band. The audience. The experience. The emotion. The immersion. Even watching it through your phone — as shot by someone else’s phone — it translates. Certainly not on the same scale, but you get it.
LAS VEGAS SPHERE 😮 #sphere #lasvegassphere #u2 #concert #u2concert #spherelasvegas ♬ Gentle and warm background piano(1262846) – Noru “We’ve noticed that, too,” Kraemer says. “Because there’s a lot of obviously social media coverage of this now. You can see a lot of what we’re doing from different points in the room. You do get a sense of what it’s actually like. It’s not the same as being there, but that’s unique because the screen is not rectilinear. It is spherical, and it’s curved.” While Kraemer did say that the spherical nature of the visuals didn’t hamper the creative process, it doesn’t mean some guardrails weren’t put in place. If you’ve ever gotten a little woozy with a VR headset, you’d have to imagine how that could happen inside the Sphere with this sort of show. So while Kraemer says there weren’t really any limitations as to what could be done, from a creative standpoint, there were some practical considerations to be had.
“There was one piece in particular,” Kraemer says, “where we did actually adjusted scale so that it appeared to move not quite as fast or over a less large distance, which then translates into speed because it was borderline making us all sick.” Understandable, even if that is a little rock ’n’ roll. It’s also unique to the venue, Kirkup says.
Visualization of Es Devlin’s “Nevada Ark” seen behind the Irish rock band U2 inside the Sphere in Las Vegas.
Stufish / MSG “Bono actually talked about that,” Kirkup says. “In the opening night when he was on stage talking about how this is the first time really, performers have had a venue designed for performance. If you think of a normal arena or a touring show, they’re going into ice hockey arenas are going into football stadiums, they’re they’re sort of playing second fiddle to the sport a lot of the time. Whereas now, it’s the other way around.
“All of this tech is here to surface performance. At the end of the day, it’s those four guys on the stage rocking out.” “The venue is for the entertainers. And so the way that the show is built, the way that the audience experiences it, the intimacy of the venue — even though it’s physically large — that doesn’t come across in the YouTube videos at all. But when you’re really there, it doesn’t feel like you’re a million miles away from the stage. Yet, you’ve got this full emotion of the content and everything going on around you. And it really is quite a quite a special experience.” The tech is impressive, no doubt. The visuals are, to put it plainly (and even without having seen them in person) stunning. They’re also meant to be in service of the show. Of the band. Of U2.
“Something not to forget,” Kirkup says, “is all of this tech is here to surface performance, you know. At the end of the day, it’s those four guys on the stage rocking out, which is what everyone has paid to go see. And that’s important. We are just a part of this, part of the equation. We’re making some cool stuff happen.
“But, you know, the band is there to perform, and they come first. That’s how it has to be.” Features Audio / Video Best Buy is staying true to its name, as the retail giant is churning out some impressive prices as part of its Black Friday deals. This is great news if you’re hoping to land a discount on a new TV this Black Friday shopping season. It’s pretty easy to find price drops on TVs, with even the best TVs seeing frequent discounts, but right now we’re seeing more significant TV deals taking place with Black Friday around the corner.
In Best Buy Black Friday deals you can currently find deals on top TV brands. If you want to look at individual brand's offers, check out Samsung TV Black Friday deals, Sony TV Black Friday deals and LG Black Friday deals. The smallest TV on this list is 43-inches, so if you need something smaller head over to 32-inch Black Friday TV deals. For something larger, browse 55-inch TV Black Friday deals and 70-inch TV Black Friday deals. If you just have a gift card to burn, or you're just loyal to Best Buy, check out some of the great Best Buy Black Friday laptop deals happening now too.
Audio / Video If you've been figuring out what size TV you should buy and it turns out 32 inches is just right, you may have found your options a little slimmer than with bigger TVs. While many of the best TVs are much bigger, you can still buy from some of the best TV brands as part of the Black Friday deals going on at the moment. There are some truly fantastic 32-inch TV Black Friday deals around with deep discounts to be found. We've picked out the very best deal while also featuring others you can check out.
Best 32-inch TV Black Friday deal Insignia 32-inch F20 HD Smart Fire TV -- $90, was $150 For a super cheap TV that will suit either your living room or your bedroom, the Insignia 32-inch F20 HD Smart Fire TV has all the essentials you need at this price. It might only have a 720p resolution but it has Fire TV built-in so it's simple to find all your favorite apps and thereby stream plenty of different shows and movies. Additionally, there's Alexa voice control support saving you from needing to grab your remote so often. Instead, you can speak to the TV to change input, change channel, find something to watch and all kinds of things.
Audio / Video If a 65-inch TV is the perfect size for your home theater setup upgrade according to our guide on what size TV to buy, then you shouldn't miss the discounts that are available in this year's Black Friday deals. There are offers involving some of the best TV brands, including LG, Samsung, and Sony, ranging from affordable choices to top-of-the-line models that require a hefty investment. Sony TV Black Friday deals have some cheaper 65-inch options, and Samsung TV Black Friday deals have some of the more expensive ones (think The Frame). Best Buy Black Friday TV deals and Amazon Black Friday deals cover the gamut, so check them out if brand and size aren't too important. You're going to have to be quick with your purchase though -- we're not sure how much stock retailers have available for these 65-inch TVs for the shopping holiday, so if you don't want to miss out, you'll need to complete your transaction as soon as possible.
For other sizes, browse the best 32-inch TV Black Friday deals, 55-inch TV Black Friday deals 70-inch TV Black Friday deals and 75-inch TV Black Friday deals.
The best 65-inch TV Black Friday deal Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
