Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending in Computing: Best Dell Laptops ChatGPT Best Monitors Asus ROG Azoth Review How to delete a page in Word in 3 easy steps RTX 4080 vs RTX 4070 Ti Best Mac Apps AMD vs Intel Recall an Email in Outlook Home Computing News AMD is valiantly keeping its word to gamers By Monica J. White Close Jacob Roach / Digital Trends AMD’s aging AM4 platform has been around since 2016, and it’s a socket that AMD has promised to support for “for many years.” We thought we’d waved goodbye to AM4 for good, but a new leak says that AMD has two new 3D V-Cache chips in the works, namely the Ryzen 7 5700X3D and the Ryzen 5 5500X3D. If the rumor is to be believed, AMD may not be done with AM4 yet, which is great news for those hoping not to have to upgrade their entire PC just to get the latest performance.
As per the user @g01d3nm4ng0 on Twitter , the new chips will serve up the same massive L3 cache we’ve come to expect from AMD’s X3D chips, making them solid options for gamers on a tighter budget. No one expected that AMD would keep releasing new versions of last-gen chips well over a year since the launch of the Ryzen 7000, and yet, it seems that they’re in the works.
New AM4 Ryzen 7 5700X3D and Ryzen 5 5500X3D are coming ? 🧐🧐🧐 5700X3D: 8C/16T, 4.1GHz/3.0GHz, 96MB L3 cache, 5500X3D: 6C/12T, 4.0GHz/3.0GHz, 96MB L3 cache.
&mdash; chi11eddog (@g01d3nm4ng0) November 14, 2023 Right now, we don’t know much about these new processors, although the leaker shed some light on the possible specs. The Ryzen 7 5700X3D is said to come with eight cores and 16 threads, a maximum clock speed of 4.1GHz and a 3.0GHz base speed, and 96MB of L3 cache. The Ryzen 5 5500X3D sports the same cache size, but has only six cores and 12 threads, as well as a maximum frequency of 4GHz.
The Ryzen 7 5700X3D is close to the 5800X3D in specs, and the latter is still one of the fastest gaming CPUs.
 The core counts are the same, and the clock speeds are relatively comparable, as the 5800X3D maxes out at 4.5GHz. The 5500X3D falls short due to only sporting six cores, but if it does get released, it should still be a speedy CPU with that massive cache and high boost clock.
AMD next-gen CPUs might deliver the biggest upgrade in years It’s official — AMD’s best gaming CPU is coming to laptops These two CPUs are the only ones you should care about in 2023 This wouldn’t be the first time that AMD is revisiting an older platform. It has recently released the Microcenter-exclusive Ryzen 5 5600X3D , allowing for a cheaper upgrade path, but the fact that it’s a limited edition made it hard to get for many PC builders.
Choosing to build a PC based on AM4 right now is a little controversial, seeing as the platform was supposed to be dead — but there are perks, too. It’s a lot cheaper thanks to more affordable motherboards and DDR4 RAM , whereas AMD’s latest AM5 socket requires DDR5 RAM and motherboards that start at $100 (and, realistically, cost around $200 if you want a decent model).
For gamers who don’t want to overspend, the 5800X3D and its less efficient siblings are a great way to get a solid CPU that won’t need upgrades for a few years. Seeing as AMD, unlike Intel and Nvidia, often tries to appeal to the mainstream part of the market, it makes sense that it would still want to use up those remaining last-gen chips and give gamers more upgrade options if they’re still on the AM4 platform.
For now, we’re left with more questions than answers. Will the Ryzen 7 5700X3D and Ryzen 5 5500X3D really be released, and if so, when? How much will they cost, and will they be as hard to get as the 5600X3D? If this is true, we’ll likely hear more about it within the next few months, so stay tuned.
Editors' Recommendations AMD might admit defeat, but it’s for the best The gamers have spoken: AMD obliterates Intel in CPU sales AMD might be about to launch the most powerful laptop of 2023 AMD’s latest V-Cache chip proves to be cheap, fast, and perfect for gaming AMD’s upcoming Ryzen 5 5600X3D could completely dethrone Intel in budget builds News Tech News Computing Zen 4 still feels quite new, but AMD is already preparing to launch its Zen 5 architecture in 2024, with AMD Ryzen 8000 processors now on the horizon.
New leaks shed some light on the upcoming chips, and while a lot is still uncertain, one thing is clear -- AMD is sticking to a somewhat controversial design choice that sets it apart from Intel: keeping the same core counts.
Computing If you already have one of AMD's best processors for gaming, such as the Ryzen 9 7950X3D or the Ryzen 7 7800X3D, both your CPU and your motherboard might be in trouble.
Several reports of the processor burning up have recently surfaced. While AMD hasn't made any statements, it's possible that a new BIOS update might be enough to keep your gear safe.
Computing It's no secret that AMD's 3D V-Cache CPUs top the list of the best gaming processors, but the new Ryzen 7 7800X3D puts AMD shoppers in a precarious position. As you can read in our Ryzen 7 7800X3D review, it tops the charts in gaming performance even if it takes a backseat in productivity power. Is that gap enough to justify spending more on the Ryzen 9 7950X3D? Even with around $300 separating the Ryzen 7 7800X3D and Ryzen 9 7950X3D, the performance gap between them is much closer than their prices would suggest. I threw them both on my test bench to see if spending up is worth it, and there's a clear answer -- the Ryzen 7 7800X3D is the CPU to buy.
Two different tiers Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
