Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Audio / Video Guides HDMI ARC or digital optical: what’s the difference, and which is best for you? By Michael Bizzaco , Simon Cohen and Caleb Denison Close When wiring up your TV and home theater system , you’ll have a few different options for getting picture and sound from source components, like cable boxes and game consoles, to your OLED , QLED , or LED-powered screen. The most common connection you’ll find is HDMI , which has been around for a while, and is capable of sending large amounts of picture and sound data across your AV system. But there’s another type of digital connection that’s reserved exclusively for audio, which is known as digital optical.
A war of audio capabilities Digital optical: The old hat still fits Wait, ARC? eARC? Is there a difference? HDMI ARC: remote control Performance you can see and hear How do you use HDMI and digital optical cables? Both of these port and cable types are an integral part of your modern entertainment mecca, but is one better than the other? The short answer is yes, but that’s just scratching the surface. To truly understand the differences between both connections, one must dive a little deeper.
A war of audio capabilities As mentioned, fundamentally, both HDMI ARC/eARC and optical let you send digital audio from one piece of hardware to another. The idea behind this is to be able to send whatever digital content you plan on enjoying — from your TV to Blu-ray players and game systems — into a larger, better audio system without losing any quality along the way. Without a digital pathway, we’d need to convert all of those ones and zeroes into an analog signal first, and that’s a job best left to our AV receivers or soundbars.
Best Samsung TV deals: Save on QLED and OLED TVs Best 75-inch TV deals: Get a large screen for under $500 The best HDMI switchers for 2023 to make the most of your TV’s inputs Whether you’re watching movies and TV shows through your TV directly or using a streaming device , you can think of your TV as being the main hub — everything connects (or is built into) your TV, with a separate sound system as the device you’re sending audio into.
In terms of how that signal gets from your TV to the audio peripheral, there are two options — HDMI ARC (or ARC for short) and digital optical.
Digital optical: The old hat still fits Developed by Toshiba in 1983 , the digital optical cable was invented so consumers could transmit digital audio signals from CD and Laserdisc players to an AV receiver or stereo system. Thanks to the optical cable and its unique connector — known as a TosLink (a shortening of Toshiba Link) connector — we could send a digital audio signal between two components for the first time.
That digital signal is known as SPDIF (Sony/Philips Digital Interface), and it can be sent along an optical cable as a beam of red light, or it can be passed from A to B over good ‘ol coaxial copper RCA cables if your equipment supports it.
SPDIF can deliver uncompressed stereo two-channel sound, also known as PCM, as well as compressed bitstream surround sound formats like Dolby Digital or DTS Surround System.
 But SPDIF was never intended to carry more information than these digital formats required, and there’s no way to upgrade it. Thus, your optical (or coaxial) digital connection is similarly limited as to what it can do.
Optical can’t pass along higher-bandwidth formats such as Dolby Digital Plus, Dolby TruHD, or DTS:X, because the signal simply cannot them — it would be like trying to fit a six- or eight-lane freeway’s worth of traffic down a two-lane residential street. This means that if you want Dolby Atmos or DTS:X object-based surround sound, an optical cable simply won’t work.
That being said, you can still get non-object-based surround sound with an optical connection — up to 7.1 channels of Dolby Digital or basic DTS — but if you want to experience enhanced formats like Dolby Atmos, Dolby Digital Plus, Dolby True HD, or DTS:X, you need to use HDMI ARC or eARC. And if you happen to be into encodings like DVD-Audio or SACD, you need HDMI ARC for these formats, too.
And while digital optical is limited to these older formats, that doesn’t mean it sounds bad. You can still get really good-quality surround sound out of an optical connection. So if that’s your only option, then use it! In fact, the Sonos Ray soundbar only offers an optical connection, because it doesn’t support Dolby Digital Plus, Dolby True HD, or DTS:X either, so why use HDMI ARC? Yup, optical is still getting used in new products today. But if you want top-quality surround sound with future-proofing built-in, HDMI ARC or eARC is the way to go.
Wait, ARC? eARC? Is there a difference? Yes, and it’s similar to the difference between optical and HDMI ARC. As great as HDMI ARC is from an improved bandwidth point of view, it too is limited. It can support Dolby Digital Plus, which is what virtually every streaming service today uses to deliver high-quality surround sound with or without Dolby Atmos. But that’s where it ends.
If you want to send very-high-bandwidth digital audio formats like Dolby Atmos, Dolby TrueHD, DTS:X, DTS-HD High Resolution Audio, or DTS-HD Master Audio from your TV to your audio gear, you’ll need the additional capacity of HDMI eARC.
 And while almost any HDMI cable that can support ARC can also support eARC, that is not true of the components you’ll be connecting. Make sure that both your TV and the device you’ve connected it to, have the HDMI eARC label on their respective ports, or it might not work.
HDMI ARC: remote control Besides the enhanced sound quality, using an HDMI ARC connection lets you take advantage of HDMI CEC — or Consumer Electronics Control — which lets you change the volume of your soundbar or AV receiver with the volume buttons on your TV remote, turn everything in the system on or off at the same time with just one power button, and perform some other clever tricks.
Simply put, if you have the option of using HDMI ARC (or eARC ) between your devices, go with this option for the most optimized home theater experience.
Performance you can see and hear While this may seem obvious, we’d like to take a moment to address the other major calling card of HDMI that digital optical simply cannot touch, which is the ability to send both digital audio and picture from a myriad of sources to your TV, projector, or AV receiver. Digital optical, on the other hand, is only capable of sending audio from one component to another.
HDMI has always possessed the ability to send digital video and audio from a component to your TV, but the real magic involved in the addition of ARC/eARC is that the same cable can be used to send digital audio back to the same component from the TV. So, one cable, three potential digital signals.
How do you use HDMI and digital optical cables? Connecting both types of wires couldn’t be easier, although HDMI (and optical, to an extent) are going to require a few tweaks in your TV or receiver’s settings.
With optical, just plug one end of the cable into your TV or the optical output of a standalone component and the other end into the optical input of your AV receiver or soundbar.
With HDMI, simply connect one end of the cable to the HDMI port marked ARC (or eARC) on your AV receiver or soundbar (or in very special circumstances, a 2022 Apple TV 4K ) and the other end to the port marked ARC (or eARC) on your TV. From there, though, you need to go into your TV’s audio settings and check a few things.
For those of you using HDMI ARC, you might want to first go make sure that HDMI CEC is turned on, if that’s an option. Some systems won’t turn ARC on until you turn CEC on. Next, go into your audio output settings and choose either HDMI ARC or digital optical.
For those of you using the optical connection, you’ll want to go one step further and choose either PCM or bitstream. Choose PCM if you have a two-channel soundbar, even if it does virtual, fake surround sound. And choose bitstream if you have a surround sound soundbar that decodes Dolby or DTS so that it gets a legit surround sound signal.
All this said, if you do have HDMI ARC on your TV and your audio device, our advice is to use that over optical. It’s superior, no doubt about it.
Editors' Recommendations Best 70-inch TV deals: Get a big screen for sports for $450 Best 65-inch TV deals: Get a 65-inch 4K TV for under $300 Best Prime Day TV deals: 4K TVs, 8K TVs, QLED TVs, and OLED TVs Best Vizio TV deals: Cheap smart TVs starting at $130 Best Amazon TV deals: Cheap TVs under $100 Audio / Video Next to the trusty USB cable, HDMI cables are just about the most useful cable in home entertainment setups across the globe. They connect everything from TVs, Blu-ray players, and streaming devices to gaming consoles, AV receivers, and speakers.
But when it comes to choosing the best HDMI cables, for the most part, it's still easy to pick up a set of cables to take care of most of your HD/4K gaming and movie and TV viewing needs, and we still think that the Monoprice Certified Premium High Speed HDMI Cable is the best pick for that.
Audio / Video If you missed out on yesterday's Black Friday deals, don't worry. There are still tons of Black Friday TV deals out there to get excited about! Whether you're looking to upgrade your home theater setup to the latest OLED technology, or simply looking to add a cheap TV to your kitchen or bedroom, there's an amazing deal for you. With so many choices out there, it can feel overwhelming, which is why we're here to help. We've looked through all the best Black Friday TV deals and highlighted the very best of the bunch below. Read on while we take you through everything you need to know.
Top 5 Black Friday TV deals Insignia 50-inch F30 Series 4K Fire TV -- $250, was $400 Insignia is Best Buy's in-house TV brand and another maker of high-value Fire TVs. The Insignia F30 Series 4K TV is a fine option for anyone looking for a cheap 50-inch TV; at this size, it'd work just fine as a smaller living room television or a larger bedroom TV, depending on what you need it for. Like the Toshiba, the Insignia 4K TV runs on the Fire TV OS to make streaming easy, but this one has a proper 4K resolution so you can enjoy your shows and movies at up to an Ultra HD resolution. It also has HDR10 support, allowing you to take advantage of the increased color and contrast range of HDR TV content. And, like many Fire TVs, it comes with Amazon's Alexa voice AI assistant built right in.
Deals If you didn't find the TV of your dreams in yesterday's Black Friday sales, don't worry. There are still a whole load of excellent Black Friday deals out there, with huge discounts on TVs from brands like Samsung and LG. If you're looking for a bigger screen but you don't want to break the bank, keep reading for all the best 70-inch TV Black Friday deals currently available. You'll find deals from retailers like Walmart, Best Buy, and Amazon below, in one handy place. Remember, though, these deals might not stick around until tomorrow, so if you find one that's for you, grab it quickly! Insignia 70-inch F30 Series 4K Fire TV -- $423, was $650 Insignia is Best Buy's house TV brand, and it offers some pretty solid televisions for those who don't want to spend a fortune -- even for a big screen like this one. The 70-inch Insignia F30 is a 4K Fire TV, running on Amazon's smart OS that gives you easy access to Netflix, Prime Video, Disney+, Hulu, and other popular streaming apps, allowing you to stream your content libraries at up to a UHD resolution. The 70-inch panel also features HDR10, so while it lacks support for more advanced HDR formats like HDR10+ and Dolby Vision, modern content will still look good on this TV. DTS Studio Sound will make it sound pretty good, too, and HDMI ARC compatibility makes it easy to add a soundbar or A/V receiver if you plan to flesh out your audio setup in the future.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
