Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Phones Best Tablets Tesla Phone Download Android 14 Best Android Phones Home Mobile Features 10 years ago, this small Android phone changed smartphones forever By Andy Boxall Close Andy Boxall / Digital Trends Ten years ago this week, the Motorola Moto G was released, becoming one of the most influential Android phones to date. It wasn’t groundbreaking because of its features, camera, or design. What made it stand out was its low price, what you got for your money, and the fact that it came from a newly reinvigorated, internationally recognized brand.
Remember the Moto G? Why the Moto G worked so well What everyone said about the first Moto G The Moto G legacy It wasn’t alone, but it was the cheapest The Moto G became a trendsetter, and its legacy continues today, but it had help in changing the industry from several other devices launched around the same time, with all of them using a similar tactic.
Remember the Moto G? Andy Boxall / Digital Trends Motorola still uses the Moto G name today, but it’s slapped on a variety of different low-cost smartphones of varying quality. Some have been good , others have been awful , which has resulted in the G name being diluted down, to the point that few people will remember what it once stood for. That’s what we’re going to celebrate here as we look back on a phone that at the time was a genuine bargain and as hyped up and desirable as devices that cost three times as much.
Motorola just launched 3 new Android phones, and they look incredible I tested the cameras on 2 great Android phones and it was brutal I’ve reviewed phones for 10 years — this is my favorite one of 2023 By today’s standards, the Moto G is as basic as phones get. It came out in November 2013 with a 4.5-inch LCD screen with a 1280 x 720 resolution, a Qualcomm Snapdragon 400 processor inside, and just 1GB of RAM. Yes, one whole gigabyte of RAM. Put alongside the iPhone 15 Pro Max , it’s tiny, and it fits in the palm of your hand like almost no other phone available in 2023.
Andy Boxall / Digital Trends The body is made of plastic (with a swappable rear panel available in different colors to brighten it up). There’s a single 5MP camera at the top center, as well as a 1.3MP selfie camera above the screen that’s set inside a bezel the size of which wouldn’t be seen on a phone today. It may be a simple overall design, but it’s given some character by the Motorola logo recessed inside a cute dimple and some lovely curves that make it so pleasing to hold.
Why the Moto G worked so well Apple iPhone 15 Pro Max (left) and Motorola Moto G Andy Boxall / Digital Trends At the time, the Moto G was far better equipped than the average budget phone. The sharp 720p screen was bigger than those of other budget phones, and the specs equaled those that cost a lot more; the processor was powerful enough to multitask and the battery lasted for a full day. The one feature missing from the first version of the phone was a 4G connection, but it wasn’t commonplace at the time, so it was forgivable on a phone that cost $180. For context, the newly released 4G Apple iPhone 5S cost $650.
Also interesting was Motorola’s decision to use essentially stock Android 4.3 Jelly Bean, with the promise of updates to future versions, too. Many other Android phones at the time rarely got a software update, and most placed a manufacturer skin over the top of the software, all with varying levels of success. It turned out to be a huge part of what made the G so great to use.
Apple iPhone 15 Pro Max (left) and Motorola Moto G Andy Boxall / Digital Trends The original Moto G managed to straddle the line between appealing to people looking for a bargain, quality smartphone while still being interesting, capable, and different enough for geekier phone fans to want. Whether it was by design or by chance, Motorola got the Moto G’s formula exactly right.
What everyone said about the first Moto G Andy Boxall / Digital Trends I called the Motorola Moto G “the bargain of the year” when I reviewed it in November 2013 and said that “it refuses to look, act or feel like a cheap phone.” I wasn’t alone in appreciating the Moto G’s uniquely appealing formula, either.
Samuel Gibbs, writing for The Guardian , said: “The Moto G is a far better smartphone experience than it ought to be, and the first budget smartphone I haven’t found frustrating to use.” Engadget’s Jamie Rigg called it “quite simply the best phone on the market in its price range.” PCMag’s Sascha Segan said it “raises the bar for low-cost, unlocked smartphones.” Andy Boxall / Digital Trends Are you seeing the pattern here? Until the Moto G came out, cheap smartphones were disappointing, often unpleasant devices to use. Corners weren’t just cut — they were slashed in half, and you regularly had to deal with slow, frustrating, out-of-date software and poor performance. The Moto G broke new ground because it gave us more than we were used to for the price in the areas we all desperately wanted to see improved.
The Moto G legacy Previous Next 1 3 The Moto G had a 3.5mm headphone jack Andy Boxall / Digital Trends The Moto G used a MicroUSB charging port Andy Boxall / Digital Trends Andy Boxall / Digital Trends The Motorola Moto G changed cheap smartphones forever, but it needed help to spearhead industrywide change. The formula that made it so good was being repeated elsewhere, and looking back, it was just one of a few phones that were pushing boundaries. Before we get to those phones, it’s important to see how the first Moto G birthed a swath of other Moto G phones that have never quite matched it. It wasn’t the fault of the phone; it was about things happening behind the scenes at Google.
The Moto G and similarly lauded Moto X arrived after Google had spent $12.5 billion on Motorola Mobility in 2012, and a year before Google then sold it on to Lenovo.
 Google’s purchase was about patents and licenses rather than hardware, while Lenovo wanted an immediate and recognizable presence in the U.S. phone market. The Moto G and Moto X’s critical success undoubtedly tempted Lenovo, and it had to know it could hit the ground running.
The Motorola Moto G changed cheap smartphones forever Seeing the opportunity and being buoyed by Google’s work to build hype around the Motorola name again, Lenovo then ran fast.
 The Moto G line was joined by the Moto E , and each went on to become low-cost product families rather than individual devices. Under Lenovo’s ownership, Motorola has had a lot of ups and downs, but recent phones like the Motorola Edge and the Motorola Razr (2023) have been superb. And guess what? They both offer a lot of phone for the money.
It wasn’t alone, but it was the cheapest Andy Boxall / Digital Trends Looking back, the Moto G and Moto X’s launch, price, and success were fortuitously timed with Google’s sale of Motorola Mobility. We never got to see what Google would have done with the Moto G, but that’s OK, because it was using the same formula on its own brand. The Moto G launched around the same time as the Google Nexus 5 phone and the Nexus 7 tablet.
 Both were cheap in terms of the hardware and software on offer and were ultimately very successful, just like the Moto G.
Then, the year after the Moto G and Nexus 5 arrived, a new, unknown brand called OnePlus launched a cheap $300 phone that did the same thing with its top Qualcomm chip, cool styling, and quirky software choice. The OnePlus One further changed how we thought about low-cost smartphones, and it’s no coincidence these four devices all employed the same tactic to win us over.
The Moto G did start a revolution, both in the business and consumer worlds, but it didn’t do it alone. However, it was the cheapest of the bunch by quite some distance, so every time we talk about a cheap phone offering plenty of tech for the money these days, its roots can probably be traced back to the best cheap phone of 2013, the Motorola Moto G. Happy 10th birthday! Editors' Recommendations The worst thing has happened to one of 2023’s best Android phones Motorola’s cheap Razr could change folding phones forever Your $1,000 smartphone is a bad deal. These cheap phones prove it This is the most jaw-dropping Android phone I’ve seen in years New OnePlus budget phone comes packing 2 super-rare features Features Motorola OnePlus Mobile The market for Android tablets appears to be sinking, but the likes of the Pixel Tablet may have some role in salvaging it. The Pixel Tablet, launched last week -- exactly a year after it was first unveiled -- marks Google's reentry into the tablet segment after almost a decade.
While this development may help bring more manufacturers onto the scene, Google itself feels shy about making big claims about performance and productivity. Instead, the Pixel Tablet is projected as a mere hybrid upgrade to the Nest Hub and Nest Hub Max.
Mobile The budget smartphone market is a bustling space right now, with great phones from Nokia and Samsung making big waves. Motorola is the unofficial king of the budget smartphone, but its throne is looking quite shaky right now. That might be why it's decided to remix some classics this year, releasing new versions of the Moto G 5G and Moto G Stylus.
While there are definitely some improvements in the 2023 versions of both phones, Motorola has also made some cutbacks for both, making these new versions remixes of past classics rather than pure upgrades. Here's everything you need to know about the Motorola Moto G 5G (2023) and Moto G Stylus (2023).
Moto G 5G (2023) Mobile Nearly a third of 2023 has already passed, and we’ve already seen a slew of new flagship phones from a variety of manufacturers. So far, we have had the OnePlus 11 and Samsung’s latest flagship Galaxy series, which includes the S23, S23 Plus, and S23 Ultra.
But there’s still more than eight months left in the year, which means plenty of time for the other flagship phones to appear. We’re still expecting a lot in 2023, so let’s take a look at what we’re waiting for.
iPhone 15 and iPhone 15 Pro Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
