Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending in Computing: Best Dell Laptops ChatGPT Best Monitors Asus ROG Azoth Review How to delete a page in Word in 3 easy steps RTX 4080 vs RTX 4070 Ti Best Mac Apps AMD vs Intel Recall an Email in Outlook Home Computing News Gigabyte may have just leaked AMD next big release By Monica J. White Close AMD Gigabyte has just sparked some rumors about the next generation of AMD’s top processors , perhaps accidentally leaking the release date that AMD itself hasn’t talked about just yet. Then again, coming from Gigabyte, it can be considered a fairly credible source. In any case, AMD’s next-gen APUs seem to be right around the corner, serving up graphics powers far beyond anything we’ve seen in an integrated GPU so far.
We’re talking about AMD’s 8000G APUs, which are a much-anticipated update to the company’s lineup. So far, the best APU available to desktop users is the Ryzen 7 5700G, featuring RDNA 2 graphics. With the release of the Ryzen 8000G Phoenix, AMD will move to the RDNA 3 architecture, delivering up to 12 RDNA 3 compute units (CUs) in the rumored Ryzen 7 8700G. That’s the same number of CUs as in the RX 6400.
While the RX 6400 is one of the worst GPUs AMD has ever released, those RDNA 3 CUs should be an improvement in the new Ryzen 8000G — and besides, the expectations are naturally lower for integrated graphics than they are for a discrete card.
Intel may have accidentally leaked the release date for Windows 12 ASRock may have released a major leak about Intel Raptor Lake The gamers have spoken: AMD obliterates Intel in CPU sales AMD has teased the Phoenix lineup in the past, but it never gave us a concrete time frame to look forward to the way Gigabyte just did. The company, known for making some of the best motherboards , has just released the latest AGESA beta BIOS for its X670, B650, and A620 motherboards, enabling support for next-gen AM5 APUs.
In the announcement , Gigabyte also said the following: “The forthcoming AM5 next-gen APU will be launched at the end of January 2024.” Well, you can’t put it any clearer than that. All that remains is to wait for an official confirmation that comes straight from AMD.
AMD VideoCardz reports that at least four new APUs are expected to arrive, including models with eight cores and six cores, as well as a couple of budget chips that feature a mix of Zen 4 and Zen 4c cores. Now, the question is, how useful will these new APUs be on a platform that’s still as pricey as AM5? Switching to AM5 means some pretty expensive motherboards, plus DDR5 RAM , which is still pricier than its DDR4 counterparts. Even cheap A620 motherboards cost around $100, and 16GB of dual-channel DDR5 RAM starts at around $50. When you’re spending that much money, you might as well pick up a cheap GPU , and most discrete models will outperform AMD’s RDNA 3 APUs.
However, for non-demanding users who want access to some light gaming and a platform that will last them longer, upgrading to AM5 makes sense. Ryzen 8000G APUs will likely have impressive graphics performance, although we’ll have to wait and see the benchmarks as the rumored January 2024 release date draws closer.
Editors' Recommendations Intel’s next CPU just leaked, and it could beat AMD’s best AMD might still have some next-gen GPUs left in the tank — but I don’t buy it AMD next-gen CPUs might deliver the biggest upgrade in years AMD’s next GPU just leaked, and it could give Nvidia trouble If you have a Gigabyte motherboard, your PC might stealthily download malware News Tech News Computing Zen 4 still feels quite new, but AMD is already preparing to launch its Zen 5 architecture in 2024, with AMD Ryzen 8000 processors now on the horizon.
New leaks shed some light on the upcoming chips, and while a lot is still uncertain, one thing is clear -- AMD is sticking to a somewhat controversial design choice that sets it apart from Intel: keeping the same core counts.
Computing AMD revealed its new Ryzen 7040U series processors for laptops, with bold claims that the chips not only beat the competition from Intel but also outpace the MacBook M2. Perhaps most impressive is that AMD says the processors can handle 1080p gaming with their integrated graphics, possibly enabling a string of thin and light gaming laptops.
I'm still skeptical, mostly on the back of AMD's vague benchmarks and lack of battery testing. Let's get performance out of the way first, though. As you can see in the chart below, AMD is claiming the integrated Radeon 780M GPU can outpace Intel's Iris Xe graphics by upwards of 239% at 1080p.
Computing New benchmarks suggest that there's a lot to be excited about if you're a laptop gamer. The leaked tests show off the performance of the upcoming AMD Ryzen 9 7845HX, as well as AMD's latest Ryzen 7040 laptop APU.
The former completely destroyed its predecessor, while the latter proved itself to be a strong alternative to a traditional gaming laptop -- perhaps even better than Valve's Steam Deck.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
