Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix F1 Live Stream Stranger Things Season 5 Best New Movies Most Popular Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney+ UFC Live Stream Best Movies on Disney+ Home Entertainment Guides Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? 5 great comedies from the past 5 years you should watch right now By Blair Marnell Close Comedy is not the box office force that it once was, and a lot of comedies now skip theaters entirely before going direct to streaming. That’s unfortunate because laughing in a crowded theater during a comedy can be a cathartic experience. And as far as we’re concerned, the genre’s best days are still in front of it because some of the best comedies from the last half-decade more than hold their own against classics from the ’80s, ’90s, and the 21st century.
No Hard Feelings (2023) Game Night (2018) Weird: The Al Yankovic Story (2022) To All the Boys I’ve Loved Before (2018) Booksmart (2019) When compiling this list of the five great comedies from the past five years, we stuck with a strict release window between 2018 and 2023 for every film from either theatrical or streaming. Surprisingly, none of the movies from 2020 or 2021 made the cut for us. But after giving each movie due consideration, we feel that these five films will be the ones that withstand the test of time.
No Hard Feelings (2023) Sony Pictures No Hard Feelings isn’t Jennifer Lawrence’s first comedy, but she fearlessly throws herself into the genre this time, especially during some very R-rated scenes. Her character, Maddie Barker, is a bit of a mess and facing a crisis since she can’t make money as an Uber driver after her car is impounded. To save herself from financial disaster, Maddie answers a very unusual Craigslist ad from Laird (Matthew Broderick) and Allison Becker (Laura Benanti).
5 best sci-fi movies from the past 5 years you should watch right now 3 Netflix movies like Oppenheimer you should watch right now 5 Jennifer Lawrence movies you should watch The Beckers offer Maddie the money she needs to survive if she agrees to date their introverted son, Percy (Andrew Barth Feldman), before he goes off to college. The problem is that Percy doesn’t really know much about dating, and Maddie’s attempted seductions go over his head. Of course, Percy doesn’t know the truth about why Maddie is pursuing him, and he’s not going to like it if he finds out.
Watch No Hard Feelings on Netflix.
Game Night (2018) Warner Bros. Pictures Game Night follows a couple, Max (Jason Bateman) and Annie Davis (Rachel McAdams), who love throwing gaming events with their friends, perhaps a little too much. Max also feels insecure about potentially becoming a father, and is overshadowed by his more successful older brother, Brooks Davis (Kyle Chandler), especially when Brooks insists on holding the next game night at his house.
When the time arrives, Max and Annie, as well as their group, watch as Brooks is abducted by armed criminals. They initially believe it’s part of Brooks’ elaborate game. But Max and Annie soon discover that the danger is all too real. And they’re going to need a lot of help to get Brooks back alive.
Watch Game Night on The Roku Channel.
Weird: The Al Yankovic Story (2022) The Roku Channel Only Weird Al Yankovic would use his own biopic to parody other biopics. That’s why Weird: The Al Yankovic doesn’t even pretend to be the true story of Weird Al’s life. Instead, it makes up events in Al’s life to play up sensational elements, while casting former Harry Potter star Daniel Radcliffe as the young Weird Al and comedy veteran Diedrich Bader as the voice of Weird Al’s present-day self.
The movie hilariously focuses on Weird Al’s passion for creating song parodies, with The Office ‘s Rainn Wilson as his mentor, Dr. Demento, and Evan Rachel Wood as Madonna. This is also one of the rare films that manages to get away with being relentlessly silly from start to finish.
Watch Weird: The Al Yankovic Story on The Roku Channel.
To All the Boys I’ve Loved Before (2018) Netflix Netflix got a whole franchise out of To All the Boys I’ve Loved Before , with sequels and a TV series spinoff. That wouldn’t have happened if the original movie wasn’t among the best comedies in the last few years.
X-Men: Apocalypse ‘s Lana Condor stars as Lara Jean, a high school student who made a habit out of pouring her heart out in letters to the boys she had crushes on…and then she never mailed the letters.
One day, Lara Jean is alarmed to discover that not only has someone mailed out her letters, but her former crushes, Peter (Noah Centineo) and Josh (Israel Broussard), want to talk to her about it. Lara Jean confesses the truth to Peter, who suggests they pretend to date to make his ex-girlfriend, Gen (Emilija Baranac) jealous. But that’s going to make things really weird when Lara Jean and Peter start to have actual feelings for each other.
Watch To All the Boys I’ve Loved Before on Netflix.
Booksmart (2019) United Artists Releasing Olivia Wilde established herself as a director with Booksmart , which stars Kaitlyn Dever ( No One Will Save You ) and Beanie Feldstein in the leading roles. In their last days as high school students, overachievers Molly Davidson (Feldstein) and Amy Antsler (Dever) come to the realization that they’ve spent too much time studying and not enough time having fun. So they decide to turn that around during one final party before graduation.
This turns out to be easier said than done since neither girl is popular enough to know which party they should go to. And before the night is over, both of their hearts may be broken and their friendship will be tested.
Watch Booksmart on Freevee.
Editors' Recommendations 5 best death game movies you should watch right now 5 great Robin Williams movies you should watch right now 5 great rom-coms on Netflix that are perfect for the summer 5 great comic book movies you should watch on Netflix right now Entertainment Few comics outside of the world of comic book movies and superheroes have had greater influence in recent years than Scott Pilgrim vs. the World. The story was created by author Bryan Lee O'Malley and follows a man named Scott living in Toronto who is forced to battle the evil exes of a girl that he's interested in.
The legacy of Scott Pilgrim only increased after a movie adaptation was released several years later and became a cult classic in its own right. Now, with the new animated series adaptation Scott Pilgrim Takes Off streaming on Netflix, we're here to make the case that Scott Pilgrim is the best comic book ever. Here are 10 reasons why: It has a unique sensibility Entertainment On November 20, 1973, Charlie Brown and the Peanuts taught us to count our blessings and appreciate the important things in life in A Charlie Brown Thanksgiving. In the Emmy Award-winning animated special, Charlie and Sally Brown are supposed to head to their grandmother's house for Thanksgiving. Before they can leave, Peppermint Patty invites herself and a few friends over for dinner. Even though he can't cook, Charlie Brown decides to improvise and cook a simple meal with the help of Snoopy and Linus before heading to his grandma's.
Though not as popular as A Charlie Brown Christmas and It's the Great Pumpkin, Charlie Brown, A Charlie Brown Thanksgiving is still quite effective in conveying the true meaning of the holiday. It's an appropriate tribute to Thanksgiving. Here's how to watch A Charlie Brown Thanksgiving.
Watch A Charlie Brown Thanksgiving on Apple TV+ Entertainment This week is a particularly memorable one for Netflix's original series with two big premieres. The Crown – the British drama that has been one of the most popular shows on Netflix since its premiere in 2016 – is heading towards the finish line with the premiere of its sixth and final season. Additionally, the cult classic film and comic, Scott Pilgrim vs. the World, is getting a new anime series, Scott Pilgrim Takes Off.
With the Thanksgiving holiday coming next week, there's never been a better time to catch up on what's new on Netflix. You may even need the breather because it's been a busy year for Netflix. Don't worry, our weekly update of the best shows on Netflix will always be updated on Fridays to help you plan your weekend binge.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
