Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix F1 Live Stream Stranger Things Season 5 Best New Movies Most Popular Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney+ UFC Live Stream Best Movies on Disney+ Home Entertainment Guides Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? 5 movies like Netflix’s The Killer you should watch right now By Carson Burton Close David Fincher’s latest film, The Killer , is now streaming on Netflix , marking his first Fincher since 2020’s black-and-white drama Mank.
The Killer stars Michael Fassbender in a tense psychological thriller about a hitman who thrives on procedure. The man is solitary, cold, and methodical; no sense of regret or morality will stop him from his next target. The killer waits in the shadows and takes pride in being a professional. After a fateful near miss, though, he is forced to battle his employers — and himself — on an international manhunt.
Panic Room (2002) Léon: The Professional (1994) Collateral (2004) Killing Them Softly (2012) The Card Counter (2021) The movie, described as a neo-noir action thriller, is a return to the dark, violent side of Fincher’s filmography that has made many of his previous movies immensely memorable. If The Killer is your kind of movie, check out these five other movies similar to Fincher’s latest.
Panic Room (2002) Sony Pictures Releasing Panic Room is not one of Fincher’s better-known works, but it is undoubtedly one of his most fun. The movie doesn’t have the dense thematic aspirations of something like Fight Club or The Social Network , but its beauty is in its simplicity. Starring Jodie Foster and a young Kristen Stewart, almost the entirety of Panic Room takes place in a New York brownstone on one fateful night. The movie is wildly entertaining and a masterclass of tension.
5 best death game movies you should watch right now 5 sci-fi movies on Netflix you need to watch in November This underrated 2023 horror movie on Netflix deserves more love. Here’s why you should watch it The movie follows Foster and Stewart as they are trapped in their house’s panic room. They retreated to the hidden chamber after a trio of intruders — played by Joker actor Jared Leto, Forest Whitaker, and Dwight Yoakam — broke into the brownstone in order to steal valuable bearer bonds. The only problem is that those bonds are in a safe inside the very panic room where the house’s residents are hiding. Thus begins a tense cat-and-mouse home invasion story that is sure to keep you on the edge of your seat until the credits roll. While Panic Room might not be Fincher’s densest film, it’s a highly worthy watch for fans of the director. Much like The Killer aims to be, Panic Room reminds viewers how Fincher has a keen eye for creating tense, hair-raising sequences.
Panic Room can be rented or purchased on Prime Video.
Léon: The Professional (1994) Columbia Pictures Léon: The Professional — or just simply Léon — is one of the greatest assassin movies out there. The movie French action-thriller is directed by Luc Besson, who also helmed movies like Lucy and Valerian and the City of a Thousand Planets.
Léon is undoubtedly Besson’s best work to date, though. For all of the movie’s dark tone and themes, it’s also oddly affecting. The relationship at the heart of the movie is one of its strongest assets, but it’s also a hell of a good time for genre fans.
Featuring a breakout turn for a young Natalie Portman, Léon follows a 12-year-old named Mathilda who is deeply familiar with darkness. Her father is abusive and stores drugs for corrupt police officers, and her mother never gives Mathilda the time of day. When a crooked DEA agent played by Gary Oldman ( Slow Horses ) murders Mathilda’s family, the young girl teams up with a hired hitman who lives down the hall. The hitman, Léon (Jean Reno), teaches Mathilda his deadly ways so that she can enact sweet revenge.
Léon is a stylish, thrilling flick outfitted with plenty of violence and gory deaths.
Léon: The Professional is streaming for free on Pluto TV.
Collateral (2004) DreamWorks Pictures, 2004 / DreamWorks Pictures It’s rare that occasional action star Tom Cruise plays the bad guy, but Collateral allows us to see the legendary actor as a full-throated villain. Cruise’s performance as the assassin Vincent is supremely chilling, and it’s made even greater by his counterpart on-screen in Jamie Foxx. The acting duo, along with Heat director Michael Mann, make Collateral a feast for the eyes. Mann’s trademark style is on full display in this movie, but it’s hard to come away from this movie without being struck by the lead performances. In fact, Foxx earned an Oscar nomination as Best Supporting Actor for his work.
Put simply, Collateral ‘s premise hinges on the question: “What if the person in your backseat was a deranged lunatic?” Foxx plays Max, an LA taxi driver who picks up a sharply dressed man named Vincent. Vincent offers Max $600 to drop him off at a few places, and Max happily agrees. Little does he know, though, that Vincent is in fact a stone-cold killer. Each stop they make means another hit for Vincent to complete. Now, Max and Vincent are inextricably linked to a trail of bodies across the city, and the police are on their tale. As the movie continues, it’s entirely unclear if Max will ever survive the night himself.
Collateral is streaming for free on Pluto TV.
Killing Them Softly (2012) The Weinstein Company While Killing Them Softly is more of a mobster movie than a hitman movie, the film is a methodical, dark crime tale that is funnier than you might first assume. Directed by Blonde helmer Andrew Dominik, Killing Them Softly is a quiet and dirty but visceral cautionary tale on capitalism. The film runs at a beautifully brisk 98 minutes and fills that runtime with shrugging violence. Outfitted with impressive cinematography and tense drama, Killing Them Softly is a finely crafted commentary that hits like a sledgehammer.
The movie follows Brad Pitt as Jackie Cogan, an enforcer for the mob who is given a mission to take care of a couple of thugs who took off with the mob’s money. The heist was a part of a big plan by a rival crook named Johnny Amato (Vincent Curatola), who hired a couple of low-rent thugs to rob a card game run by mob boss Markie (Ray Liotta). Frankie and Russell, the two thugs hired by Amato, are one of the most incompetent duos out there, yet they still manage to make off with the money. Now, though, Cogan is on their tail.
Killing Them Softly isn’t very subtle in its commentary on American livelihood, but that doesn’t mean it’s ineffective. At its heart, though, this movie is a relentless crime movie with some outright hilarious moments. Its ending, too, will surely stay with you.
Killing Them Softly is streaming for free on Tubi , Pluto TV, and PLEX.
The Card Counter (2021) Focus Features The most modern addition to this list comes in Paul Schrader’s The Card Counter , released in 2021. If the title of this movie made you think it was a movie about cards, you would be mistaken. While games like poker and blackjack are key aspects of the story, this isn’t Rounders.
 Instead, the Oscar Isaac vehicle is a dark, haunting movie about a truly disturbed mind.
The Card Counter unfolds slowly, starting as a gambling story and transforming into a supremely grim tale of revenge. It’s truly haunting, and Isaac’s performance is one of the most gripping performances in recent history.
Isaac plays William Tell, a gambler and ex-military interrogator who sets out to reform a young man seeking revenge on a mutual enemy from their past. Tell has done horrific things as an interrogator, but those days are behind him. Now, he just wants to play cards — or at least that’s what he tells himself. As the movie progresses, we see the anti-hero figure grow more and more interested in revenge. Schrader’s direction is in full force here, resulting in a darkly moving and thoroughly horrifying thriller that pays off its slow burn.
The Card Counter is streaming on Freevee.
Editors' Recommendations 5 bad 2000s action movies that you still need to watch right now 5 great comedies from the past 5 years you should watch right now 5 movies to watch if you liked The Marvels 5 underrated movies on Netflix you need to watch in November This action war movie is popular on Netflix. Here’s why you should watch it Entertainment Netflix has always been good at churning out solid, funny comedies for every conceivable demographic. With Old Dads, Bill Burr's new comedy about three men in middle age who slowly discover that they are out of step with the world around them, Netflix has made a new classic for anyone who likes sharp comedy about the way the world is changing.
If you've already watched Old Dads, there are several other Netflix comedies that may scratch that same itch. Here are three Netflix comedies like Old Dads that you should definitely check out.
The Meyerowitz Stories (New and Selected) (2017) The Meyerowitz Stories (New and Selected) | Official Trailer [HD] | Netflix Entertainment In the aftermath of his death, many people have looked back on Friends' star Matthew Perry's entire career to find ways to appreciate what he brought to all of his various projects.
While most people agree that Perry was never able to fully replicate the enormous success he had with Friends, he was undeniably a captivating screen presence, and there is a huge array of other TV and movie projects that highlight his skills as an actor and comedian. His death was an undeniable tragedy, but Perry left us with plenty of great examples of just how brilliant he could be on-screen.
17 Again (2009) 17 Again (2009) Official Trailer - Zac Efron, Matthew Perry Movie HD Entertainment Over the past 25 years, Reese Witherspoon has become one of the great movie stars of her generation. Since first emerging on the scene in a series of comedies, Witherspoon has definitively proven that she can be funny and dramatic in equal measure, and she's created a number of indelible roles over the course of her decades of stardom.
Few actresses are more versatile or charming than she continues to be to this day, and these are the five movies you should start with if you're looking to catch her best work.
Walk the Line (2005) Walk The Line | #TBT Trailer | 20th Century FOX Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
