Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Netflix Original Movies Best Comedies on Netflix Best Netflix Original Series Best Anime on Netflix Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Fantasy Movies on Netflix Home Entertainment Guides Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? The Netflix Cup live stream: how to watch the live golf event By Dan Girolamo Close Netflix is entering the world of live sports with The Netflix Cup, which combines F1 and the PGA Tour for a new and innovative golf event. Four drivers from Netflix’s Formula 1: Drive to Survive will join forces with four golfers from Netflix’s Full Swing in a golf competition at the Wynn Golf Club in Las Vegas, Nevada. The event kicks off an important week in Vegas, which will host the first-ever Formula 1 Heineken Silver Las Vegas Grand Prix on November 18, 2023.
How to watch The Netflix Cup on Netflix How much does it cost? Who will be participating in The Netflix Cup? Four pairs – one F1 driver and one PGA Tour golfer – will participate in The Netflix Cup. There will be two eight-hole matches. The winners of Match 1 and Match 2 will compete in the final playoff for a chance to win the inaugural Netflix Cup. Which team will win the championship? Find out how to watch The Netflix Cup below.
How to watch The Netflix Cup on Netflix The Netflix Cup will stream live on Netflix beginning at 6 p.m. ET/3 p.m. PT on November 14.
 The four-person announce team includes sportscaster Kay Adams, PGA golfer Joel Dahmen, former NFL star Marshawn Lynch, and comedian Bert Kreischer. With this event, Netflix continues to bolster its sports programming. The streamer covers Formula 1 ( Formula 1: Drive to Survive ), golf ( Full Swing ), football ( Quarterback ), and tennis ( Break Point ). Upon their debuts, many of these shows became some of the most popular TV shows on Netflix.
How much does it cost? Netflix is about to get more expensive, again.
 The streamer recently announced monthly prices for some of its subscription plans will increase. Standard with ads remains at $7 per month. This ad-supported plan allows subscribers to access nearly every movie and TV show on the service.
Washington Huskies vs. Oregon State Beavers live stream: watch college football for free 2023 Champions Classic live stream: watch college basketball for free USC Trojans vs. Oregon Ducks live stream: watch college football for free Standard also remains at the same price of $15 per month. Standard features unlimited ad-free movies, TV shows, and mobile games on two supported devices. Premium will increase from $20 per month to $23 per month. Premium allows users to watch unlimited programs on six supported devices. The Basic plan is not being offered to new customers. However, current Basic members will not have to pay $12 a month to continue their subscription.
Who will be participating in The Netflix Cup? Netflix The four teams in The Netflix Cup: Lando Norris (McLaren Racing) and Rickie Fowler Carlos Sainz (Scuderia Ferrari) and Justin Thomas Alex Albon (Williams Racing) and Max Homa Pierre Gasly (BWT Alpine F1 Team) and Collin Morikawa Each match will follow scramble format rules. Each player on each team will hit a tee shot. Then, the teams will select one of their two balls to play, and both players will hit a ball from that spot. The winners of the final hole will be the first Netflix Cup champions.
Editors' Recommendations Georgia Bulldogs vs. Tennessee Volunteers live stream: watch college football for free 2023 Feast Week live stream: watch Thanksgiving college basketball for free New York Jets vs. Las Vegas Raiders live stream: watch the NFL for free Michigan Wolverines vs. Penn State Nittany Lions live stream: watch college football for free Los Angeles Clippers vs. Dallas Mavericks live stream: watch the NBA for free Netflix Streaming Services Entertainment College basketball fans are in for an early season treat when the No. 12 Arizona Wildcats (1-0) travel east to play the No. 2 Duke Blue Devils (1-0) on Friday night. The NCAA basketball game will be played in front of a raucous crowd at Cameron Indoor Stadium in Durham, North Carolina. ESPN Bet lists Duke as a 5.5-point favorite.
A home-and-home two-game series is rare this early in the season, so give credit to Arizona and Duke for signing this agreement. 2023's matchup will be played at Duke, and 2024's matchup will take place at Arizona's home gym. The Blue Devils are expected to be title contenders after returning four key players from last year's tournament team. Arizona will also be in contention come March as one of the best teams in the Pac-12.
Watch the Arizona vs. Duke live stream on ESPN2 Entertainment High-speed internet has made it easy and economical for millions of people to "cut the cord" and ditch traditional cable or satellite TV in favor of online streaming services. But due to regional broadcasting restrictions, sports fans had to wait a while longer to enjoy live and on-demand content. Movies and TV shows have been available on services like Netflix, Hulu, and Prime Video for about a decade now, and today's 4K smart TVs even come with built-in internet connectivity and pre-loaded streaming apps -- but only recently have broadcasters like ESPN done the same thing for live-action sports, including UFC live streams like UFC 295 tomorrow.
The world’s biggest mixed martial arts fighting league has joined with ESPN to bring you all of your favorite UFC content in 2023, both online and on TV. Fox previously held exclusive broadcasting rights to UFC through 2018, but starting in 2019, the contract went to ESPN. ESPN rolled out its own premium streaming service called ESPN+ in the spring of 2018. This is great news for MMA fans, as the UFC's tight relationship with ESPN now makes it easy to stream UFC fights online. Although some fight cards are broadcast on ESPN's TV channel and UFC Fight Pass, ESPN+ is the only venue for watching UFC PPVs online, including the UFC 295 live stream. This means that for the foreseeable future, all Ultimate Fighting Championship content is airing only on this network, and if you're looking for the best way to watch every UFC live stream online, ESPN+ is what you need.
Watch the UFC live stream on ESPN Plus Entertainment Newcastle takes on Dortmund today with Newcastle coming off the back of a great 1-0 victory over Arsenal in the Premier League last weekend. The downside for the England side? When they met Dortmund in October, they lost 1-0 so there's a certain amount of vengeance here. Whoever you're backing, the two closely matched sides are sure to be appealing. We've got all you need to know about how to watch Dortmund vs Newcastle online. Whether you're based in the US, UK, Canada, or Australia, we're here to help.
What time is Dortmund vs Newcastle? Dortmund vs Newcastle kicks off at Dortmund's stadium -- Signal Iduna Park -- on Tuesday November 7. Kick off time is 12.45PM ET/9.45AM PT/5.45PM GMT with the game kicking off at 4.45AM AEDT November 8 in Australia.
How to watch Dortmund vs Newcastle in the US In the US, Paramount Plus hosts all the Champions League games in the US for this season. It's a smaller streaming service than some of the others, but it has a growing selection of sports events so it's great for fans of soccer and more. Alongside that, it's a good idea to keep on top of what's new on Paramount Plus with many movies and TV shows added regularly. Even better, if you solely want to watch Dortmund vs Newcastle, you can do so for free thanks to a Paramount Plus free trial. It lasts for seven days and gives you full access to the streaming service so you can see what it offers that might appeal to you, alongside the Champions League.
How to watch Dortmund vs Newcastle in the UK In the UK, TNT Sports is where to go to see the Champions League. It was formerly called BT Sports so if you previously had access to that service, you'll have access to TNT Sports. Otherwise, it's available through Discovery+ Premium. The service costs £29.99 per month with it also available through Amazon Prime if you prefer to sign up that way. There's no Discovery+ Premium free trial available but you can sign up on a 30-day rolling contract so you're not tied in.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
