Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending in Computing: Best Dell Laptops ChatGPT Best Monitors Asus ROG Azoth Review How to delete a page in Word in 3 easy steps RTX 4080 vs RTX 4070 Ti Best Mac Apps AMD vs Intel Recall an Email in Outlook Home Computing Features I tried the next generation of smart glasses, and my nose loves them By Alan Truly Close Xreal, TCL, and Rokid smart glasses displayed together.
Alan Truly / Digital Trends Conceptually, smart glasses with displays are great. You get a giant screen that hovers in the center of your view and personal stereo sound in a pair of glasses you can fold and put in your pocket. In practice, there have been some issues preventing this technology from going mainstream. Most notably, comfort has been a problem.
How wearable are smart glasses? Xreal Air 2 TCL RayNeo Air 2 Rokid Max Compatibility Which next-gen glasses should you buy? I tried next-gen smart glasses from industry leaders Xreal, Rokid, and TCL to find out if these new wearables are more suitable for your discerning eyes, attentive ears, and sensitive noses. And what I found was pleasantly surprising.
How wearable are smart glasses? The most advanced hardware in the world might collect dust on a shelf if it’s awkward or painful to use. That’s an issue even for the best VR headsets , and the nascent AR and smart glasses market faces an even greater challenge.
Meta’s AI smart glasses collection can live stream video — but they’re missing a big feature These AR glasses showed me the future of spatial computing — and I’m excited We want eyewear to look normal, be comfortable for hours, and display a giant screen with good sound. The latest smart glasses get surprisingly close to that ideal.
Early smart glasses fell short in a few areas. Thick and heavy designs with limited adjustability resulted in a wearable that’s hard to wear. The latest models weigh less, but the question remains as to whether they’re comfortable enough.
A 1-ounce pair of sunglasses is fine for most people, and prescription lenses that weigh 2 to 3 ounces might be a necessity, even if they leave indentations on your nose and make your ears sore.
Since smart glasses are optional, people are less willing to accept discomfort. Every gram counts when a device rests on your face. Audio-only glasses and glasses with cameras, but no displays, like the Ray-Ban Meta Smart Glasses , are lightweight.
And it’s not only about weight; improved nose pads and earpieces can soften and distribute the load, so smart glasses feel lighter than they are. Manufacturers listened, and next-gen glasses feel much better, making them more inviting for browsing and binge-watching.
Xreal Air 2 Alan Truly wears the Xreal Air 2 smart glasses.
Tracey Truly / Digital Trends There’s a reason Xreal is the leading manufacturer of smart glasses with displays. The Xreal Air glasses were the best solution when launched in 2022, and the Air 2 upgrades every aspect of that technology and design.
At 72 grams, the Xreal Air 2 are the lightest smart glasses available.
 The nose pads are soft and adjustable, and the flexible earpieces fit my wife better than the originals. There’s also a vertical adjustment in the hinges to ensure the whole screen is visible.
The displays are brighter, and 500 nits of intensity is good enough for a bright room or outside on a cloudy day. The audio is good, with minimal leakage for an open-ear design.
Xreal Air 2 smart glasses have a light tint but include darker translucent shades for outdoor use.
Alan Truly / Digital Trends I feel like I could wear the Xreal Air 2 endlessly. My wife, who is more sensitive to smart glasses comfort, found them to be the most comfortable she’d ever tried.
If I add the included shades, the weight increases to 79 grams, and the extra third of an ounce is noticeable after an hour or two. Thankfully, the Xreal Air 2 smart glasses are bright enough that I rarely use the shades.
TCL RayNeo Air 2 Alan Truly wears the TCL RayNeo Air 2 smart glasses.
Tracey Truly / Digital Trends TCL took a different approach to its latest smart glasses, building permanent shades into the design. At 76 grams, the RayNeo Air 2 are the lightest smart glasses that are suitable for outdoor use.
The built-in tint is great for watching movies, but it makes it harder to see your surroundings in a dim room. It’s like wearing sunglasses, which could be a drawback when using them at night.
TCL RayNeo Air 2 smart glasses from the back showing the integrated shades.
Alan Truly / Digital Trends The RayNeo Air 2 glasses have soft, adjustable nose pads and a vertical hinge adjustment similar to Xreal’s design. I found these smart glasses to be as comfortable as the Xreal Air 2, but the rigid earpieces didn’t suit my wife.
The display brightness of 600 nits makes the RayNeo Air 2 one of the brightest smart glasses available. The sound quality is good, though I didn’t notice some buzzing at maximum volume.
Rokid Max Alan Truly wears the Rokid Max smart glasses without the included opaque shade.
Tracey Truly / Digital Trends Rokid has been making smart glasses for several years, serving industrial needs. The Rokid Max glasses draw on that expertise, creating a refined solution that’s one of my favorites.
The 75-gram weight and comfortable nose pads make these easy on the nose. Although the earpieces are rigid, the shape seems to work for my wife’s smaller ears, as well as mine.
The included shades are opaque, providing full immersion, but bring the weight to 2.9 ounces. The bright 600-nit display makes the blackout covers unnecessary in most cases.
Rokid Max smart glasses have diopter adjustments.
Alan Truly / Digital Trends The Rokid Max smart glasses have a unique feature that helps keep the virtual screen super sharp — diopter adjustment of up to -6.00D on each eye. I have mild myopia, so this solution relieves all eye strain for me without the need for prescription inserts.
The sound quality is good, with very little leakage of my audio to people around me.
Compatibility Tracey Truly / Digital Trends Some smart glasses include their own processors and can run apps natively, but the smart glasses I’ve been describing require video streaming from a phone, laptop, computer, or gaming console. You need a device that supports USB-C Alt mode or an HDMI-to-USB-C cable or other adapter to use any of these smart glasses. If your phone isn’t compatible, you’ll need an adapter, and each manufacturer has a different solution to this problem.
Xreal offers Nebula software that expands the virtual screen beyond the boundaries of the physical screen. When you turn your head, you can see more. On a Mac or Windows PC, you can add three extra monitors.
 That can make a big difference since it means you might not need an ultrawide monitor or multi-monitor setup if you use Xreal smart glasses.
On Android , the Nebula app is different, presenting an ultrawide screen that serves as a launcher and a multi-window browser. My phone serves as a pointer, projecting a beam to select windows. It’s not as useful as Samsung’s Dex, but it’s an interesting way to see more within the limited screen size of smart glasses.
Rokid Max has a similar Android app, and TCL has an Android app in beta testing for its RayNeo Air 2 smart glasses. Neither has a computer solution yet, but there are third-party solutions like GingerXR.
Xreal Beam Xreal Xreal’s Beam is compatible with the original Xreal Air and the new Air 2 smart glasses. It enables Wi-Fi connectivity so I can cast my screen wirelessly from my iPhone, Android, Windows, or Mac. It also adds spatial awareness with three degrees of freedom, similar to the Nebula app.
The Beam accessory fits in a pocket or rests on a desk. The glasses still need a cable to get video and power from the Beam. The battery supplies about four hours of runtime.
Rokid Station Rokid Rokid Station is a pocket Android TV that connects via a cable to the Rokid Max for watching videos and playing games without any other device. I can mirror my Android phone or cast to Rokid Station from YouTube and Chrome from an iPhone, a computer, or a laptop.
You get five hours of battery life with the Rokid Station. If you buy a Rokid Station, keep track of the included USB-C to Micro HDMI cable, because it’s hard to find a third-party replacement.
TCL MiraScreen TCL The TCL MiraScreen provides mirroring for devices that don’t support USB-C Alt mode. The device supplies enough power for 3.5 hours of use.
The back attaches magnetically to an iPhone that supports MagSafe and some other devices that have a magnetic back. Two short cables are included to make it easy to connect to a USB-C or a Lightning port.
Which next-gen glasses should you buy? These next-generation smart glasses are much more comfortable, but have some significant differences. You need to consider compatibility. Skipping the adapter is best if that’s an option. If you own a device that won’t directly connect, review the compatibility section above to narrow in on the best choice.
If you’re near-sighted, the Rokid Max’s built-in diopter adjustment makes these smart glasses an excellent choice. You won’t need to order expensive prescription lenses to enjoy watching videos, playing games, mirroring your phone, or extending your laptop’s desktop to a virtual monitor.
Xreal Air 2 is an all-around great solution and the most comfortable of all. Xreal’s Nebula app for Mac and Windows makes these smart glasses ideal for work use, adding up to three virtual displays to your laptop or computer.
If you know you’ll be using your smart glasses outdoors often, the built-in shades of TCL’s RayNeo Air 2 can never be lost and make video streaming more immersive.
Whichever solution you choose, it’s nice to know you’ll get more use out of this new generation of smart glasses that don’t make watching videos on a virtual screen a pain in the nose.
Editors' Recommendations These new smart glasses put a 500-nit, 330-inch screen on your eyes Are AR glasses still a pipe dream? I tested 3 of the newest to find out Features Computing The design of Apple's Magic Mouse continues to be a major complaint among Mac users, a blight on Apple's otherwise fantastic design choices. The ergonomics are inhuman, it still uses a Lightning charging port (even on the new M3 iMac), and it can't be charged while being used.
However, an engineer has introduced his design concept that would not only solve the charging issue on the Magic Mouse but also make the design ergonomic and comfortable for natural handling.
Computing Lenovo is probably one of the best-known laptop makers, especially since they have an incredibly wide variety of them to choose from. That also means they have an excellent selection of gaming laptops, so you can hone in on something that fits your budget. That's especially the case with the ongoing early Black Friday deals that are seeing laptops being cut down in price across the board. That said, Lenovo's selection of gaming laptops is too wide for us to include all their active deals here, so we've selected some of our favorites for both AMD and Intel CPUs. Also, if you're not sure of where to start, you should check out our list of best Lenovo laptops for some good options.
Best Lenovo Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals (AMD) Lenovo has a wider selection of AMD gaming laptops, which is great if you want to go with something AMD-powered. Unfortunately, there aren't any good deals on Lenovo laptops with both an AMD CPU and GPU, but the selection below is wide enough to pick something that fits your needs a bit better. And, if you want something with an RTX 4090 on a budget, then the AMD version is probably the cheapest for Lenovo.
Computing Printers are complicated machines featuring a mix of plastics, metals, electronics, and components, some of which are potentially flagged as hazardous waste. In 2023, it's more important than ever to be kind to the planet, and there are several environmentally safe ways to dispose of a printer.
Even the best printers in the world can reach the end of their life after several years if ink or toner is no longer available. A well-loved printer can suffer from accumulated wear and tear or damage from a catastrophic power surge that's too expensive to repair.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
