Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix F1 Live Stream Stranger Things Season 5 Best New Movies Most Popular Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney+ UFC Live Stream Best Movies on Disney+ Home Entertainment Guides Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? NFL games today: schedule, channels, live streams for November 12 By Dan Girolamo Close We’ve reached the unofficial halfway point of the 2023 NFL season. The two best teams in the league are the Philadelphia Eagles and the Kansas City Chiefs, and both are on a bye this week. Today’s Week 10 slate is much weaker than Week 9. Yet, there are still a few games that jump out. One of those games features the Cleveland Browns going on the road to face their division rival, Baltimore Ravens. The other standout game is between the San Francisco 49ers, who have lost three straight games, and the red-hot Jacksonville Jaguars.
Indianapolis Colts at New England Patriots start time, channel, and live stream Cleveland Browns at Baltimore Ravens start time, channel, and live stream Houston Texans at Cincinnati Bengals start time, channel, and live stream San Francisco 49ers at Jacksonville Jaguars start time, channel, and live stream New Orleans Saints at Minnesota Vikings start time, channel, and live stream Green Bay Packers at Pittsburgh Steelers start time, channel, and live stream Tennessee Titans at Tampa Bay Buccaneers start time, channel, and live stream Detroit Lions at Los Angeles Chargers start time, channel, and live stream Atlanta Falcons at Arizona Cardinals start time, channel, and live stream New York Giants at Dallas Cowboys start time, channel, and live stream Washington Commanders at Seattle Seahawks start time, channel, and live stream New York Jets at Las Vegas Raiders start time, channel, and live stream Overall, there are 12 games on Sunday, November 12.
 You can find the schedule, channels, and live streams below. To watch every game, sign up for NFL Sunday Ticket, which is now 50% off for the rest of the season.
 Sunday Ticket is available for purchase through YouTube TV.
Indianapolis Colts at New England Patriots start time, channel, and live stream The #NFLFrankfurtGames continue! Watch @Colts vs.
@Patriots on @NFLNetwork Sunday at 9:30am ET. And also, stream NFL Network live in #NFLPlus Terms and Conditions Apply to NFL+. Visit https://t.co/gpDvGle0kC pic.twitter.com/AwFd9tjYKO &mdash; NFL (@NFL) November 9, 2023 Start Time: 9:30 a.m. ET Channel: NFL Network Stream: NFL+ , YouTube TV , Hulu with Live TV , FuboTV , Sling TV The game between the Colts (4-5) and Patriots (2-7) will be the fifth and final game in the 2023 International Series. It will be played at Frankfurt Stadium in Frankfurt, Germany. The Colts are still holding out hope for the playoffs but desperately need to win to get .500. New England’s season is heading in the wrong direction. If things continue to decline, will Bill Belichick be the Patriots’ coach in 2024? NFL games today: schedule, channels, live streams for November 5 Miami Dolphins vs. Kansas City Chiefs live stream: watch the NFL for free Houston Texans vs. Carolina Panthers live stream: watch the NFL for free Cleveland Browns at Baltimore Ravens start time, channel, and live stream Erik Drost / Flickr Start Time: 1 p.m. ET Channel: Fox Stream: NFL+ , YouTube TV , Hulu with Live TV , FuboTV , Sling TV The Browns’ (5-3) defense continues to be one of the best units in the NFL. In Week 9, they pitched a 27-0 shutout against the Cardinals. However, Cleveland has a daunting task in Week 10 when they head to Baltimore to play the Ravens (7-2), who look like the most complete team in football.
Houston Texans at Cincinnati Bengals start time, channel, and live stream &quot;Grizzle left tight F-fly pass 37 punch waggle help baby dizzy x fan on the turbo&quot; Joe Burrow giving play calls in the huddle is mesmerizing 😂 (via @NFLFilms , @NFL ) pic.twitter.com/5A1Z0fntr9 &mdash; Bleacher Report (@BleacherReport) November 9, 2023 Start Time: 1 p.m. ET Channel: CBS Stream: NFL+ , Paramount+ , YouTube TV , Hulu with Live TV , FuboTV We’re running out of words to describe Houston’s C.J. Stroud. In Week 9 , the rookie quarterback threw for 470 yards and five touchdowns, including the game-winning score with six seconds left, as the Texans (4-4) defeated the Bucs by a score of 39-37. Houston has a major test on Sunday when they face Cincinnati. With a healthy Joe Burrow, the Bengals (5-3) are easily one of the three best teams in the AFC.
San Francisco 49ers at Jacksonville Jaguars start time, channel, and live stream All-Pro Reels / Joe Glorioso / Flickr Start Time: 1 p.m. ET Channel: Fox Stream: NFL+ , YouTube TV , Hulu with Live TV , FuboTV , Sling TV After winning their first five games, the 49ers (5-3) have lost their last three. The talent is there for San Francisco. However, injuries to Deebo Samuel and Trent Williams have hampered the offense. Things don’t get any easier for the 49ers as they face the Jaguars (6-2), who have not lost a game since September 24.
New Orleans Saints at Minnesota Vikings start time, channel, and live stream All-Pro Reels Photography / Flickr Start Time: 1 p.m. ET Channel: Fox Stream: NFL+ , YouTube TV , Hulu with Live TV , FuboTV , Sling TV The Saints (5-4) have not looked good in consecutive weeks, and somehow, they find themselves in first place in the NFC South. New Orleans’ defense will keep them in every game. Meanwhile, the Vikings are coming off an emotional come-from-behind victory over the Falcons thanks to some late-game heroics from quarterback Joshua Dobbs. All-Pro wide receiver Justin Jefferson should be back next week to bolster Minnseota’s offense.
Green Bay Packers at Pittsburgh Steelers start time, channel, and live stream Joshua J. Seybert / Dvids Start Time: 1 p.m. ET Channel: CBS Stream: NFL+ , Paramount+ , YouTube TV , Hulu with Live TV , FuboTV The Steelers (5-3) are the biggest mystery in football. Pittsburgh has been outgained in every game this season. Yet, the Steelers have managed to win five games. That defies the laws of football. If Mike Tomlin can get the Steelers to the playoffs, he deserves serious consideration for Coach of the Year. The Steelers face the Packers (3-5) at home in a game they should win.
Tennessee Titans at Tampa Bay Buccaneers start time, channel, and live stream The future is now #QB1 #WillLevis #Hype pic.twitter.com/jSq97OKQ6F &mdash; Justin Graver (@titansfilmroom) November 8, 2023 Start Time: 1 p.m. ET Channel: CBS Stream: NFL+ , Paramount+ , YouTube TV , Hulu with Live TV , FuboTV Tennessee, there’s a new sheriff in town, and his name is Will Levis. The Titans (3-5) will turn to their rookie quarterback as their starter, with veteran Ryan Tannehill as his backup. Levis and the Titans head to Tampa to play Baker Mayfield and the Buccaneers (3-5). This feels like another “loser leaves town” matchup with both teams two games under .500.
Detroit Lions at Los Angeles Chargers start time, channel, and live stream All-Pro Reels / Flickr Start Time: 4:05 p.m. ET Channel: CBS Stream: NFL+ , Paramount+ , YouTube TV , Hulu with Live TV , FuboTV One of the best games of the day features the Detroit Lions (6-2) traveling to sunny California to play the Los Angeles Chargers (4-4). Dan Campbell has the Lions believing they can do more than just make the playoffs. If Jared Goff continues to play like a top-10 quarterback, a trip to the NFC Championship could be within their grasp. For the Chargers, their defense has carried them to wins in the past two weeks, allowing just 19 points combined in Weeks 8 and 9.
Atlanta Falcons at Arizona Cardinals start time, channel, and live stream #Cardinals QB Kyler Murray on the state of the team: &quot;We&#39;re really not that far off. Obviously, people may think we&#39;re a bad football team. We&#39;re not a bad football team.&quot; Murray is set to play Sunday for the first time since tearing his ACL. Arizona was 1-13 without him, with… pic.twitter.com/sijSSIaxm8 &mdash; Ari Meirov (@MySportsUpdate) November 9, 2023 Start Time: 4:05 p.m. ET Channel: CBS Stream: NFL+ , Paramount+ , YouTube TV , Hulu with Live TV , FuboTV What is going on in Atlanta? Arthur Smith has some explaining to do when it comes to player touches. Bijan Robinson, the best player on the Falcons (4-5), touched the ball 13 times. Tyler Allgeier, Robinson’s backup, had 14 touches. For the Falcons to win, Robinson must become the focal point of the offense. If the Falcons are not careful, they will get upset by the Arizona Cardinals (1-8), who will start Kyler Murray for the first time of the season.
New York Giants at Dallas Cowboys start time, channel, and live stream All-Pro Reels / Flickr Start Time: 4:25 p.m. ET Channel: Fox Stream: NFL+ , YouTube TV , Hulu with Live TV , FuboTV , Sling TV The Giants (2-7) are a dumpster fire. After an embarrassing loss against the Jets, the Giants could not get the offense going against the Raiders, losing 30-6. To make matters worse, quarterback Daniel Jones tore his ACL and will be out for the rest of the season. Good luck to third-string quarterback Tommy DeVito, who has to start against an angry Cowboys (5-3) team that suffered a tough loss to the Eagles in Week 9. Look for the Cowboys to win big in Week 10.
Washington Commanders at Seattle Seahawks start time, channel, and live stream Pete Carroll says #Seahawks have to get their act together on defense against Sam Howell and the Commanders, who are wingin it.
“They are going to bounce back fine” he says of his players ⁦ @thenewstribune ⁩ pic.twitter.com/ErmTU0LZPf &mdash; Gregg Bell (@gbellseattle) November 8, 2023 Start Time: 4:25 p.m. ET Channel: Fox Stream: NFL+ , YouTube TV , Hulu with Live TV , FuboTV , Sling TV The Commanders (4-5) are still hanging on by a thread in the NFC playoff picture. It wasn’t pretty, but Washington picked up a crucial victory in Week 9 over the Patriots. The Commanders now head to Washington to face the Seattle Seahawks (5-3), who are coming off a terrible 37-3 loss to the Ravens.
New York Jets at Las Vegas Raiders start time, channel, and live stream NFL Start Time: 8:20 p.m. ET Channel: NBC Stream: NFL+ , , YouTube TV , Hulu with Live TV , FuboTV , Sling TV Sunday Night Football will feature the New York Jets (4-4) taking on the Las Vegas Raiders (4-5) in Sin City. Will Jets head coach Robert Saleh bench Zach Wilson if the offense continues to struggle? The Jets have a league-worst eight offensive touchdowns on the season. The Jets need to stay alive in the playoff hunt for Aaron Rodgers to even attempt a comeback this season. For the Raiders, things have been a lot better under interim coach Antonio Pierce. After the Raiders fired Josh McDaniels, Pierce took over in Week 10, and the Raiders responded with a 30-6 victory over the Giants.
Editors' Recommendations New York Jets vs. Las Vegas Raiders live stream: watch the NFL for free Dallas Cowboys vs. Philadelphia Eagles live stream: watch the NFL for free NFL games today: schedule, channels, live streams for October 29 Miami Dolphins vs. Philadelphia Eagles live stream: watch the NFL for free NFL games today: schedule, channels, live streams for October 22 Entertainment An AFC West rivalry will write another chapter when the Los Angeles Chargers (2-3) head to the Midwest on Sunday afternoon to play the Kansas City Chiefs (5-1). The pivotal showdown will be at Arrowhead Stadium in Kansas City, Missouri. On FanDuel, the Chiefs are 5.5-point favorites.
It's a kitchen sink game for the Chargers, as they need to win to stay in the hunt for the playoffs. Meanwhile, the Chiefs are attempting to win the AFC West for the eighth straight year. Whenever the Chargers and Chiefs play, expect the final score to be close. The Chiefs have won the previous three matchups, dating back to the 2021 season.
Watch the Chargers vs. Chiefs live stream on CBS Entertainment If there's one thing that football fans in Green Bay can take heart from, it's that their beloved Packers have at least won twice as many games as Denver's football team. Unfortunately for both teams, their collective total number of victories this season is now three. But hey, somebody has to win when the Green Bay Packers (2-3) take on the Denver Broncos (1-5) in Denver. The Packers are a 1-point favorite on FanDuel. Green Bay and Denver last played in September 2019, with the Packers winning by a score of 27-16.
Because both teams are playing very poorly this season, the 1-point spread suggests that analysts aren't expecting a high-scoring game. It also means this is really anyone's game, and either the Broncos or the Packers can step up and add another victory to their win column. If you're looking for ways to watch the game, live TV streaming services will broadcast the Packers versus the Broncos. Sling TV is an option for consumers looking for the game on a live TV streaming service. Below, you'll find more information on how to watch the Packers take on the Broncos.
Watch the the Packers vs. Broncos live stream on CBS Entertainment Division rivals Buffalo and New England are having two very different seasons, and so far, the Patriots are really taking a beating. Will things turn around when the Buffalo Bills (4-2) take on the New England Patriots (1-5) in Foxborough, Massachusetts? We'll see, but the Bills are an 8-point favorite on FanDuel. Buffalo and New England last played in January of this year, with the Bills winning by a score of 35-23.
Just because the Bills have a winning record doesn't mean fans are happy in Buffalo. It's been hard to miss the fact that the Bills have limped to victory in games that they should have easily won. And while the Patriots haven't posed much of a threat this season, the Bills really need to step up their game if they're going to hang with the elite teams of the NFL. If you're looking for ways to watch the game, live TV streaming services will broadcast the Bills versus the Patriots.
Watch the Buffalo Bills vs. New England Patriots live stream on CBS Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
