Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Windows 12 GTA 5 Cheats Wordle Today iPhone 15 Deals Upcoming Movies Nintendo Switch 2 NYT Connections Today Google Pixel 8 Pro Review Home Audio / Video Deals Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Best TV deals: Get a 65-inch 4K TV for under $300 and more By Jennifer Allen and Noah McGraw Close Is it time to upgrade your home theater system? The Super Bowl is closer than you think, and the NBA season just started. There are new blockbuster movies hitting streaming services everyday. Plus, TVs are not nearly as expensive as they were even five years ago. We’ve collected the bst of the best TV deals out there right now, including unmissable OLED TV deals and QLED TV deals.
 These deals come from top-of-the-line brands like LG and Samsung as well as budget options like Roku, Hisense and TCL.
40-inch Roku Select Series HDTV — $180, was $230 50-inch Vizio V-Series 4K TV — $248, was $319 55-inch Insignia F30 Series 4K TV — $260, was $350 58-inch Hisense R6 Series 4K TV — $268, was $298 65-inch onn. Roku TV 4K TV — $298, was $348 65-inch TCL Q5 QLED 4K TV — $400, was $600 75-inch Samsung TU69OT 4K TV — $580, was $750 86-inch LG UR7800 Series 4K TV — $900, was $1,250 75-inch Sony Bravia XR X90L — $1,500, was $2,00 65-inch LG 99 Series QNED Mini-LED 8K TV — $1,500, was $2,500 65-inch LG C3 Series OLED 4K TV — $1,600, was $2,100 65-inch Samsung S90C OLED 4K TV — $1,600, was $2,100 85-inch Samsung QN800 Neo QLED 8K TV — $2,500, was $3,150 77-inch Sony Bravia XR A80L OLED 4K TV — $2,700, was $3,300 40-inch Roku Select Series HDTV — $180, was $230 Roku / Roku If you’re looking for a cheap 4K TV with all the features, and size doesn’t matter, this 40-inch Roku is the perfect option — you can stop reading now. This little smart TV is perfect for a dorm room, workspace or garage. It has Roku smart tech in it, so you can stream your favorite shows right from the TV without needing a cable box, console, or even a streaming stick. But please note: This is the only TV on this list that is not 4K , just FHD, or 1080p.
50-inch Vizio V-Series 4K TV — $248, was $319 Vizio This is the cheapest 4K TV on this list, but by no means the only one under $300. Vizio has made a name for itself as the budget alternative to brands like Samsung and LG. Vizio makes quality TVs, sometimes with next-level tech, for cheap. The V-Series is nothing fancy, but it will look great in any mid-sized home theater. It has a 60Hz refresh rate, which makes it good for watching sports. It has some advanced processes like Active Pixel Tuning and a Gaming Mode.
Save on everything from laptops and tablets, to coffee makers and air purifiers, and a whole host of Apple tech like iPad, Apple Watch and even the latest M3 MacBooks, as well as smart home essentials like the Amazon Echo and smart bulbs.
55-inch Insignia F30 Series 4K TV — $260, was $350 Best Buy Insignia has parted with Amazon for this TV, so the smart features are courtesy of Fire TV. You can stream content straight from the TV without an external source, and this includes dozens of streaming services besides Amazon Prime. The F30 Series has the capabilities for HDR , so you can play PS5 games and watch 4K movies with the brightness, crispness and saturated colors they were meant to be seen in.
58-inch Hisense R6 Series 4K TV — $268, was $298 Hisense Hisense makes its first appearance on this list with a super cheap TV in a strange size. Most manufacturers go from 55-inches to 60-inches, but Hisense offers an extra stop in the middle. The R6 Series use Roku for their smart tech, meaning streaming is simple. This TV can run HDR , HDR10 and Dolby Vision and Sound, so you can get movie theater quality at home. It has Motion Rate 120 technology, which mimics a 120fps frame rate even on older content – a good setting for watching sports.
65-inch onn. Roku TV 4K TV — $298, was $348 Onn.
onn. is another cheap 4K TV brand worth checking out. This 65-inch Roku 4K TV is simple enough, and very similar to the 58-inch Hisense above (but bigger, of course). It has some nifty features that run through Roku , like the ability to use your smartphone to control the TV instead of the remote. It comes with a stand but has the ability to be wall mounted with a standard VESA mount.
65-inch TCL Q5 QLED 4K TV — $400, was $600 TCL The first TV in this list that’s over $300 also steps up the quality in a major way: QLED.
QLED technology is a special panel in the TV that allows it to display an incredible amount of colors. You’ll have much deeper darks and brilliant lights with a QLED. They also have the ability to get much brighter than a standard LED TV, and this TCL Q-Series is especially brilliant. It also comes with cool settings like Motion Rate 240 and MEMC Frame Insertion.
75-inch Samsung TU69OT 4K TV — $580, was $750 Samsung Here’s our first Samsung on the list. The TU69OT isn’t QLED, but it’s UHD the way only Samsung can do it. It has a direct lit display and an Crystal Processor 4K , so you’ll get the best image UHD can offer. The processor will fine-tune the colors in the display with PurColor technology, so you’ll get crystal clear colors in tons of shades. This TV is powered by Google Assistant , so it’s easy to connect it to the rest of your Google Nest Hub smart home.
86-inch LG UR7800 Series 4K TV — $900, was $1,250 LG The biggest point to make about this LG UR7800 is its size. This is a massive 86-inch TV. It will cover move of your wall if you live in an apartment, house, or basically anywhere that isn’t designated as a mini movie theater. This is also not a QLED TV, but it’s a quality 4K TV from LG, one of the best TV manufacturers of all time. It can access Filmmaker Mode, which lets the processor fine tune pixels to bring you the perfect version of any modern movie — the version the director wanted you to see.
75-inch Sony Bravia XR X90L — $1,500, was $2,00 Sony The Sony Bravia line topped out list of the best TV available at one point in time. While this isn’t the super fancy OLED version (or even QLED), it’s a high quality TV that’s worth the price. The power comes with the processor, Sony’s intelligent Cognitive Processor XR. It analyzes hundreds of things on the screen to do fancy things like crisp up objects that are closer in your field of view and adjust the dark light depending on the subject of the shot. The TV itself is also huge.
65-inch LG 99 Series QNED Mini-LED 8K TV — $1,500, was $2,500 LG We’ll start by saying this is a quality TV, then complain a bit about the term QNED.
 It’s a term LG made up, but it refers to LG’s NanoCell LCD technology and quantum dots, which are part of a QLED display. Ultimately this TV’s use of Mini-LEDs leads allows LG to pack a lot more lights into its display. You’ll get crisper lines and more accurate colors than a standard LED TV. It also has 8K technology, something that the rest of the world hasn’t quite caught up to yet, but will inevitably become the norm in the future.
65-inch LG C3 Series OLED 4K TV — $1,600, was $2,100 LG Here we arrive at our first OLED TV, and it’s from the brand with the best OLED TVs out there. In fact, this is our favorite OLED TV of the year. OLED TVs use self-emitting lights in each pixel. This means each pixel can turn itself off or shine brilliantly whenever it needs to. You’ll have the ultimate dark areas, pure colors, and no light bleed. On top of that, this TV has all the processing power you would expect from a high end display, so you’ll get active pixel tuning, Filmmaker Mode and more.
65-inch Samsung S90C OLED 4K TV — $1,600, was $2,100 Samsung Samsung is another fantastic TV manufacturer that makes quality OLED TVs. This Samsung S90C can display over a billion colors with its self-emitting diodes, so you’ll get the full breadth of color in any blockbuster movie or nature show. It has a Neural Quantum Processor that can upscale content into 4K , so if you watch older shows or YouTube uploads often, you won’t have to adjust to 1080p again. Everything will be upscaled into 4K.
85-inch Samsung QN800 Neo QLED 8K TV — $2,500, was $3,150 Samsung / Samsung If you’re preparing for 8K to take over, you might as well buy one now. The Samsung QN800 is a QLED TV that can handle 8K content. Neo QLED is Samsung’s version of a quantum dot panel mixed with Mini-LEDs, so you’ll get crisp lines and all the billions of colors you could ask for. That’s important for 8K content, since the image its displaying will be so precise. This has a Neural Processor too, so it will do its best to upscale older content into 8K for you.
77-inch Sony Bravia XR A80L OLED 4K TV — $2,700, was $3,300 Sony / Sony If you can’t settle for anything but the best, it’s time for the Sony Bravia XR A80L. This is a gigantic OLED TV with a powerful processor. The A80L isn’t our favorite OLED of all time, but several other Bravia models did make our list for 2023. It has a powerful processor that adjusts hundreds of on-screen things at once to show you the best possible version of the content you’re watching. It has the billions of colors available with OLED technology, and it enhances their hue and saturation with XR Triluminos Pro technology.
Editors' Recommendations This Samsung 77-inch OLED TV is $1,600 off for Black Friday The best 70-inch TV Black Friday deals from LG, Samsung, and more The best 75-inch TV Black Friday deals on Samsung, Sony, and more The best Sony TV Black Friday deals on 4K TVs, 8K TVs, and OLED TVs Best Samsung TV Black Friday Deals: Save on 4K and 8K TVs now Deals Cheapest Prices TV Audio / Video If you're always looking for the next advancement in TV tech, you're likely familiar with the concept of 8K television. You probably know that TVs of this style are quite expensive, though, so may have been waiting for prices to die down before buying one. That's a logical approach, and it may be a couple of years yet before 8K programming becomes available to the masses, but with Black Friday deals already here for 2023 the shopper with an eye on the ground has a chance to get one for a steal this year. Arranged by brand, these are our favorite Black Friday TV deals on 8K TVs.
If you haven't completed your home theater setup yet, pair your 8K TV with Black Friday soundbar deals.
Best LG 8K TV Black Friday deals Audio / Video You may or may not be aware, but out of all the different types of TV technologies QLED vs OLED panels are totally different. QLED stands for Quantum Light-Emitting Diode which means it uses millions of nanoparticles or Quantum Dots to supercharge its color, delivering a vibrant, gorgeous picture. You can read our quantum dot explainer to learn how it all works in more detail. The bigger dilemma, at least right now, is that QLED panels tend to be very expensive, unless you can grab them at a hefty discount. You'll want to listen up, though, because at this very moment there are a ton of early Black Friday deals to shop. Many of those deals even offer eye-popping discounts on QLED TVs from some of the biggest brands on the market like Samsung, TCL, Vizio, and more. We've rounded up all the best, and it can't hurt to take a look. Since it's discount season, make sure to compare these prices with OLED TV Black Friday deals as well.
The best QLED TV Black Friday deal We tend to go with a more affordable option when picking out the "best" deals, and this pick is no exception, but don't let that fool you. TCL has made an excellent TV with a lot of great features, like the superior 4K quality resolution, mini-LED technology with uncompromising contrast and brightness, and hands-free voice controls accessible via Google Assistant. But it all hearkens back to that price, and man is that price juicy. Don't sleep on this one.
Audio / Video Black Friday deals were practically invented to sell TVs. Super cheap TVs are synonymous with the shopping holiday. Thankfully Black Friday deals are starting earlier and earlier each year, so there are some options you can shop right now. Check out our absolute favorite TV deal, a solid option from Vizio, then keep reading for a list of some other great TVs under $300 right now. If you buy the TV before Black Friday, you can watch the Thanksgiving football games on your new TV.
The Best Black Friday TV deal under $300 Our favorite cheap TV in the early Black Friday TV deals is this 50-inch Vizio V-Series on sale for $248, down $71 from its regular price of $319. A quality 4K TV from a brand like Vizio for under $250 is nothing to snub your nose at. Let's dig into some of its specs.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
