Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Windows 12 GTA 5 Cheats Wordle Today iPhone 15 Deals Upcoming Movies Nintendo Switch 2 NYT Connections Today Google Pixel 8 Pro Review Home Audio / Video Deals Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Best Black Friday soundbar deals: Save on Samsung, Bose, and more By Briley Kenney Close Simon Cohen / Digital Trends No home theater is complete without the proper audio. Yeah, sure, you start with a fantastic, maybe even massive TV, currently on sale in Black Friday TV deals , and spring for the bells and whistles while you’re at it. But nothing feels more immersive than audio that surrounds you, making it sound like jets are flying overhead, explosions are in your living room, and the music is permeating from somewhere high in the sky. You could spend some time scouring through the best Black Friday deals to see if you can find some audio and soundbar deals, but we’ll do you one better. We’ve rounded up all of the best Black Friday soundbar deals right here in one place. That way, there’s no need to jump around, unless you’re listening to some House of Pain.
Best Vizio soundbar Black Friday deals Best Bose soundbar Black Friday deals Best Samsung soundbar Black Friday deals Other soundbar Black Friday deals worth shopping Best Vizio soundbar Black Friday deals Riley Young/Digital Trends / Digital Trends VIZIO has a solid mix of affordable, mid-grade, and premium options. Here are all of the best VIZIO soundbar Black Friday deals we could find: VIZIO 2-channel soundbar with Bluetooth — VIZIO V-Series AIO 2.1-channel soundbar — VIZIO V-Series 2.1-channel soundbar with wireless subwoofer — VIZIO M-Series AIO 2.1-channel soundbar — VIZIO M-Series 5.1-channel soundbar with wireless subwoofer — Best Bose soundbar Black Friday deals Bose Here are the best Bose soundbar deals we could find for Black Friday: Bose Smart Soundbar 700 with voice assistant — Bose Smart Soundbar 900 with Alexa — Save on everything from laptops and tablets, to coffee makers and air purifiers, and a whole host of Apple tech like iPad, Apple Watch and even the latest M3 MacBooks, as well as smart home essentials like the Amazon Echo and smart bulbs.
Best Samsung soundbar Black Friday deals Samsung Samsung is definitely one of the more renowned electronics and entertainment companies these days, and the Black Friday deals range from affordable to top-of-the-line. There are also some great Samsung TV Black Friday deals.
 Take your pick: Samsung C Series 2-channel soundbar — Samsung A-Series 2.1-channel soundbar — Samsung HW-C450 2.1-channel soundbar with wireless subwoofer — Samsung HW-S60B 5-channel AIO soundbar — Samsung Q-series 3.1-channel soundbar with Q-Symphony — Other soundbar Black Friday deals worth shopping Derek Malcolm / Digital Trends Of course, there are a host of other brands that offer soundbar Black Friday deals, which we’ve gathered up below: TOPVIZION wireless Bluetooth soundbar — Sony S100F 2-channel soundbar — JBL Cinema SB170 2.1-channel soundbar with wireless subwoofer — Sony HT-SD40 2.1-channel soundbar with wireless subwoofer — LG 3.1.3-channel soundbar with wireless subwoofer — Polk Audio MagniFi Max AX 5.1.2-channel soundbar — Sony HT-A5000 smart soundbar — Sony HT-A7000 7.1.2-channel soundbar — Sennheiser AMBEO 5.1.4-channel soundbar — Editors' Recommendations This Samsung 77-inch OLED TV is $1,600 off for Black Friday 75 best Amazon Black Friday deals on laptops, TVs, Apple, and more Google Pixel Black Friday deals: Pixel 8, Pixel Watch, Pixel Buds and more Best Buy Black Friday TV deals: Save on LG, Samsung, Sony, and more Best Buy Black Friday deals: 12 best offers you can shop now Deals Soundbars Audio / Video As far as TVs go, 75-inches is the sweet spot for most -- big enough to cover a living room wall with some great viewing angles, but not so expensive that it's going to empty your wallet with inordinate costs, either. But at full price, 75-inch TVs can still be somewhat expensive, especially depending on the brand you choose. Except during Black Friday and Cyber Week, one of the best times of the year to capitalize on excellent deals.
Right now, a ton of early Black Friday deals are going live, across a host of retailers, and on a wide variety of goods and electronics. So, here we are, in the ideal time of the year to nab an excellent 75-inch TV deal, but where do you start? We've gone ahead and gathered up some of the best Black Friday TV deals available right now, just to make things a bit simpler for everybody. These cover some of the best QLED TV Black Friday deals and one of the best OLED TV Black Friday deals.
Audio / Video If a 65-inch TV is the perfect size for your home theater setup upgrade according to our guide on what size TV to buy, then you shouldn't miss the discounts that are available in this year's Black Friday deals. There are offers involving some of the best TV brands, including LG, Samsung, and Sony, ranging from affordable choices to top-of-the-line models that require a hefty investment. Sony TV Black Friday deals have some cheaper 65-inch options, and Samsung TV Black Friday deals have some of the more expensive ones (think The Frame). Best Buy Black Friday TV deals cover the gamut, so check them out if brand and size aren't too important. You're going to have to be quick with your purchase though -- we're not sure how much stock retailers have available for these 65-inch TVs for the shopping holiday, so if you don't want to miss out, you'll need to complete your transaction as soon as possible.
For other sizes, browse the best 32-inch TV Black Friday deals and 75-inch TV Black Friday deals.
The best 65-inch TV Black Friday deal Audio / Video Black Friday deals present the perfect time to buy a new TV. Retailers are discounting home theater equipment by the truckload, and Amazon is no exception. We've pulled the best Black Friday HD TV and 4K TV deals, if you're primarily looking for something cheap, and QLED and OLED TV deals if you're ready to upgrade your home theater to the next level. All of these deals are at Amazon, but they include deals from several brands, such as Samsung, LG, Vizio, TCL, and more.
Amazon Black Friday HDTV deals Not all content needs to be 4K. Sometimes a 1080p TV will do just fine, especially if it's on the smaller side. These are some of the best HD TV deals from brands like Amazon Fire, TCL, Insignia and Vizio. These will work great in a spare bedroom, garage, or kitchen, but consider opting for 4K if this is going to be your main home theater system. A lot of these options are small, but if you're looking specifically for a tiny TV, check 32-inch TV Black Friday deals.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
