Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Windows 12 GTA 5 Cheats Wordle Today iPhone 15 Deals Upcoming Movies Nintendo Switch 2 NYT Connections Today Google Pixel 8 Pro Review Home Audio / Video Products Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Best headphones for 2023: Sony, Bose, Apple, and more By Simon Cohen and Derek Malcolm Close The best headphones for you can be highly personal. Things like fit, style, portability, and even color are important factors because if you're going to spend your hard-earned money, they'd better suit your lifestyle. But that's just the tip of the headphone iceberg. All headphones offer a variety of useful and advanced features, such as active noise canceling (ANC), transparency mode for hearing the world around you, and companion apps that unlock a near-infinite level of customization. Oh, and, of course, they need to fit your budget.
A great pair of headphones — and by headphones, we typically mean the over-ear variety — should do what you need them to do for however you plan to use them. If you're looking for earbuds , we have a roundup of the best of those, too We've tested hundreds of pairs of headphones, and as far as we're concerned, the Sony WH-1000XM5 are still the best headphones for most people. With a comfortable design and slick appearance, plus continued improvements in noise-canceling, call quality, sound quality, and charging speed, Sony leaves almost no box unchecked in its pursuit of headphone perfection.
If you're looking for some alternatives, though, we have you covered there, too. We've picked out a number of other excellent headphone models, each with its own specific strengths, that balance price with features specific to your needs. We also have roundups of the best noise-canceling headphones , the best noise-canceling earbuds , and the best earbuds for making phone calls.
Save on everything from laptops and tablets, to coffee makers and air purifiers, and a whole host of Apple tech like iPad, Apple Watch and even the latest M3 MacBooks, as well as smart home essentials like the Amazon Echo and smart bulbs.
More More More More More More Simon Cohen / Digital Trends Sony WH-1000XM5 The best headphones, period Excellent sound Very good comfort Ultra-clear call quality Best-in-class noise canceling Very good battery life Hi-res compatible (wired/wireless) Hands-free voice assistant access Classy, modern design Fold-flat, but don’t fold up Sony's technologically advanced WH-1000XM5 are the fifth generation of Sony's flagship wireless headphones. Like Sony's previous models, they offer top-tier noise canceling, excellent quality wireless audio, and plush comfort. This enticing combination earned the model a rare five-star rating in our review and — thanks to a series of continued improvements — maintains the WH-1000 series' status as the best headphones you can buy.
At the heart of the WH-1000XM5 is outstanding wireless sound. Though they use smaller drivers than their predecessors, they manage to produce a more refined and more detailed performance that trades big, in-your-face bass, with subtlety and nuance.
But the real stars of the show are the XM5's active noise cancellation (ANC) and call quality, both of which are class-leading. In an era where folks are spending almost as much time on Zoom calls as listening to music, these features matter, and Sony knows it. Comfort matters too. The XM5 are both lighter and better balanced than the already-cushy XM4, and you'll have no problem wearing them for hours at a time without fatigue.
The XM3 and XM4 models compared well to Bose's Noise Cancelling Headphones 700 , but now that we have the XM5, it's no contest. Sony's top-of-the-line cans outclass the Bose in every meaningful way.
More Nick Woodard/Digital Trends Adidas RPT-01 The best for workouts 40 hours of battery life IPX4 waterproof rating Durable build Easy-to-use controls Contradictory setup instructions Tight fit Narrow audio range Adidas’ fabric-covered headphones may look a little odd at first, but it quickly becomes apparent why: They’re built for fitness use from the ground up, and that includes easily-washable fabric that’s extra durable while also helping to deal with any sweat. The headphones also come with an IPX4 rating so you don’t have to worry much about sweat or rain damage, always an important feature in headphones used for exercise. The overall design is also light enough – and with a tight enough fit – to give joggers and other cardio fans a comfortable, reliable experience.
Then there’s the excellent battery life, rated at up to 40 hours, and headphones don’t get much higher than this – especially workout-oriented models. And we also appreciated the effective Adidas app, an excellent complement to the onboard controls for playback, switching tracks, and calling up voice assistants like Siri, Alexa, or Google Assistant.
Audio is tuned primarily toward workout-friendly bass, which is an advantage in the gym but makes these headphones a bit less useful for listening to music casually. The equalizer option helps, but don’t expect these headphones to quite reach the sound quality of some of our other top picks.
And if you’re looking for headphones with an even better battery option, check out the Adidas RPT-02 SOL.
 These headphones have some similar capabilities but include a solar headband that can help recharge the already-excellent battery. They’re a good pick for outdoor runs in sunnier places.
More Zeke Jones/Digital Trends / Digital Trends Sennheiser Momentum 4 Best for audio purists Amazing battery life Outstanding sound Effective wind noise reduction Comfortable Effective ANC No auto-off function Sennheiser has always been a reliable brand for a high-quality audio experience, but its outdone its past work with the Momentum 4, a pair of wireless headphones that don’t skimp an inch when it comes to incredible sound supported by the aptX Adaptive codec.
 Our review even found that the audio was preferable to our top Sony headphones pick, the XM5s, despite the price actually being around $50 lower.
That may already be enough to convince the audiophiles out there, but let’s go on: The upgraded Momentum 4 includes an incredible 60-hour battery, and a lightweight yet highly effective design with great passive noise cancellation. Don’t worry, the headphones come with Active Noise Cancellation as well for canceling out background noises (at the expense of some battery life). Four beamforming mics also ensure you can take clear calls on these headphones if necessary.
If you really care about sound, you may also want to tweak audio settings to match your favorite genre or instruments. The Momentum 4 offers customization options, including basic presets as well as an integrated equalizer you can play with to create a sound profile that’s just right. They may not have every feature in the book – touch controls and auto-off modes are lacking, and the three-band equalizer is a little simple – but those focused on pure audio will find that these headphones are made for them.
Simon Cohen / Digital Trends Bowers & Wilkins Px8 Best money-is-no-object pick Beautifully designed and built Incredibly comfortable Great sound quality Decent noise cancellation Expensive Not ideal for calls in noisy places At the high end, headphone prices can stretch to hundreds of dollars or more, but there’s typically a limit where audio just doesn’t get much better no matter how much you are paying (in which case, it’s time to add a DAC and start using better audio files). But if you want the absolute best sound you can get without heeding the price, the Px8 truly delivers. Not only is the sound experience phenomenal, but the design is perfectly luxurious, sporting supple leather, polished aluminum, and an expertly comfortable design.
The design and audio are backed up by the ANC, and while it isn’t as effective as the cancellation offered by something like the AirPods Max, it’s still enough to enhance the audio in noisy places, and the transparency mode works just fine. They are also compatible with the Bluetooth AptX standard for listening to higher-quality wireless music, although this feature is sadly not compatible with iPhones. Battery life is serviceable at around 30 hours, too.
These are the best current headphones for an excellent combination of audio and comfortable, with the right compatibility features for serious listeners. But if you want to compare other high-end options, we suggest taking a look at the Master & Dynamic MW75 , which offers many similar advantages (at a similarly sky-high price).
More Riley Young/Digital Trends Apple AirPods Max The best for iPhone Best-in-class ANC Amazing transparency mode Excellent build quality Excellent sound quality Top-notch call quality Charges via Lightning cable Heavy on head At $550, the AirPods Max are expensive. But the design, materials, and build quality alone are almost worth the price of admission. The aluminum earcups and stainless steel headband sliders feel fantastic in your hands, and all of the parts move together with invisible, clockwork-like precision. The mesh fabric on the unusually-shaped headband all but eliminates pressure points and the ear cushions provide ample comfort.
The digital crown, which Apple repurposed from the Apple Watch, is surprisingly effective as a combo control that lets you adjust volume with much better precision than a set of buttons. The dedicated ANC/transparency mode button is equally intuitive and easy to use.
Speaking of ANC and transparency, Apple has knocked these features out of the park. Our reviewer found that the transparency was so good, it felt like he wasn't wearing the headphones at all. That's also an apt description for the head-tracking spatial audio that you can do with these cans when they're paired to an iPhone or an Apple TV 4K — it's like sitting in full surround sound home theater, but without any actual speakers.
Sound quality can't quite match what you'll get with the Sony WH-1000XM5, but there's no denying the AirPods Max are a delight to listen to.
The included carry case is one of the few weaknesses. It doesn't fully protect the headphones and it doesn't help you pack them in a backpack or suitcase. You may want to consider one from our best AirPods Max accessories post. There are even ones that push the AirPods Max into its ultra-low-power mode.
Speaking of power, at 20 hours, the AirPods Max won't win any endurance prizes, but that's still enough juice for all but the longest of flights.
More Simon Cohen / Digital Trends Bose QuietComfort Ultra Headphones Best noise canceling headphones Premium materials and design Excellent comfort Best-in-class noise canceling Natural-sounding transparency Impressive spatial audio Hi-res compatibility Tricky volume control ANC can't be turned off Bose has returned to form with its new, redesigned flagship ANC headphones, the QuietComfort Ultra, and they've not only landed on our best headphones list here, but they've also managed to send the long-standing Sony WH-1000XM5s to take the top position in our best noise canceling headphones roundup.
Successors to the Bose Noise Canceling Headphones 700 , the QC Ultra have an improved design that harks back to the much-loved double fold-up style that allows the headphones to lay flat in their zip-up case, but also fold again for further space savings to make more room for the USC-C and 2.5-to-3.5 mm headphone cables.
The star of the show, though, is Bose's signature ANC, which gets a big improvement in the QC Ultra, bringing a new level of quiet that our reviewer says tops the best in the business, Apple AirPods Max and the previously mentioned Sony WH-1000XM5. The addition of ANC "Modes" means that you can create your own favorite presets that are fine-tuned for your needs and you can toggle between them with ease. Modes can also include the QC Ultra's transparency modes — meaning you can choose to toggle between your perfect mix of ANC and transparency and then quickly switch to your favorite pure ANC mode for your noisy commute. The QC Ultra's transparency mode also features a new "Active Sense" mode that listens for overtly loud noises and then adds the appropriate ANC to protect your ears.
Bose's well-known sound quality hasn't gone anywhere either. They offer a well-balanced and dynamically rich sound that can be fully tweaked in the Bose Music app's EQ settings in case you're not 100% on board with their sound signature out of the box. There's now even support for hi-res audio formats with the addition of aptX Adaptive Bluetooth technology , which means audiophiles with Tidal , Apple Music , Qobuz , or other hi-res streaming services can take advantage (you need an Android phone for this, though; sorry, Apple fans).
Spatial audio with head tracking is also included on the Ultra, with support for not only Dolby Atmos Music tracks, but the headphones will also create their own simulated 3D sound out of normal stereo tracks with a feature called "Immersive Audio," which our reviewer Simon Cohen says is "the best virtual spatial audio I’ve heard so far." While there are headphones on our list with more impressive battery life than the QC Ultra, you'll still get 24 hours from them on a charge (18 hours with immersive audio enabled), with 2.5 hours gained from just a 15-minute quick charge.
More Simon Cohen / Digital Trends Sennheiser HD 660S2 Best open-back headphones Detailed and dynamic sound Excellent bass response Balanced and unbalanced cables Comfy enough for long sessions No case for protection Clamping force may feel too strong Open-back headphones are a kind of headphone that you don't see pop onto our list very often, but our reviewer Simon Cohen was so impressed with the Sennheiser HD 660S2s that he felt they should be mentioned. What are open-back headphones, you ask? Loved by audiophiles for their ability to allow sound to flow towards your ears and away from them through a perforated outer earcup, the design is supposed to help deliver a more natural sound. The free-flowing air also relieves any pressure buildup inside the earcup for a more comfortable feel. Cohen confirms in his review , that all this is true.
The HD 660S2s is a pair of wired headphones, but that's a good thing as this means that they can deliver a much higher sound quality than Bluetooth allows, like hi-res audio from services like Tidal , Apple Music, or Amazon Unlimited , or from files on your computer. "The sound is effortless," our review boasts. "It just springs forth and gently bathes you in its detail, instead of pummeling you, which I now recognize as a possible side effect of closed-back headphones." Deep resonant bass, and an open airy quality is also what you get, which is why many audiophiles prefer them.
That said, there is a bit of a caveat with these high-performing cans: they're best listened to using a digital-to-analog- converter (DAC).
 These are audiophile-level headphones, and they have a higher 300-ohm impedance, which means while they will work when plugged in to your computer, they may be quieter, as they need more amplification. To add that extra amplification, we recommend using a combo DAC/amp or a standalone headphone amplifier, which can be had for between $100 and $300 or so. If you want to get even nerdier, the HD 660S2s also feature a separate left and right cable system. They come with an unbalanced 6.3mm cable and 3.5mm adapter, as well as a balanced 4.4mm cable, which means that the signals sent along balanced cables are less affected by interference, resulting in a quieter sound. In short, these things have all kinds of different ways to sound amazing.
Lastly, these 260-gram headphones are really comfy, with plush-covered ear cups and soft memory foam on the headband for long listening sessions. They look pretty sweet too.
More Ted Kritsonis / Digital Trends 1More SonoFlow Best budget headphones Great sound quality Very comfortable for long periods Ridiculous battery life Solid ANC performance Great app support Affordable price No wear sensors Wired mode disables extra features Scanning the most popular headphones can feel depressing on a budget. Top picks like the AirPods Max or the Sony WH1000XM5 (both of which won spots on our list) cost hundreds of dollars to get all their fancy features and audio upgrades. But if you’re looking for a model that’s $100 or less, you’ll be surprised just how little you have to give up with this affordable powerhouse from 1More.
The wireless SonoFlow have all the features that you want, including ANC, support for high-res formats like LDAC, an EQ with plentiful presets, and generally impressive audio with their 40mm DLC dynamic drivers. We also like the comfortable, lightweight design, which makes wearing these headphones for hours at a time a painless experience.
The battery is also incredible, with up to 70 hours of playback time (without ANC) on one charge, and 50 hours with ANC on. We’re seriously impressed with just how much is packed into the SonoFlow headphones at such a reasonable price, making them the top option for buyers on a budget.
Puro Sound Labs PuroQuiet Active Noise Cancelling Headphones The best for kids Effective noise cancellation Volume-limiting (85db) Great size for kids' heads Good sound quality Very good battery life A bit pricey for kids' headphones Noise cancelation for kids? Doesn't that mean they'll ignore their parents even more often than they already do? Perhaps, but it's a risk worth taking if it means your kids' hearing will be protected over the long term. That's exactly the premise behind the Puro PuroQuiet headphones.
Not only are they wireless and great-sounding, but they also come equipped with a software limiter that keeps the volume at or below 85dB, which is considered the maximum volume that anyone (but especially children) should be exposed to for prolonged periods. Above that threshold and kids risk developing noise-induced hearing loss (NIHL).
 The noise-canceling feature means they'll actually be able to listen to lower (therefore safer) volumes, so hopefully, when they get older they won't need to go the route of OTC hearing aids.
These headphones pack about 35 hours of non-ANC playtime (23 hours with ANC) which is very good even by adult ANC headphone standards, but there’s also the option of using an analog cable instead. An external switch lets you turn the noise cancellation on and off. Make no mistake, these might be aimed at kids, but the quality of construction, selection of materials, and color choices give them an appearance that will still appeal to your young charges long after they've outgrown their Disney phase (some of us still haven't).
While not the cheapest kids' headphones you can buy, the Puro PuroQuiet are very reasonably priced for what they offer. We think your kids’ ears are worth it.
Like the idea of the PuroQuiet but need something more adult-sized? Check out the PuroPro.
 Want volume-limiting without active noise cancellation? Check out the Happy Plugs Play.
Read our PuroQuiet impressions Simon Cohen / Digital Trends Bose QuietComfort 45 The best for frequent flyers Super comfortable Very good noise canceling Very good sound quality Can connect to multiple devices No wear detection No EQ adjustments Travelers often have to deal with long flights and train or bus rides — along with the waits at airports or stations. If you’re familiar with the experience and prefer to zone out as much as possible while waiting, these Bose headphones are for you. They offer the ideal combination of high-quality ANC and a very comfortable fit for long trips.
There’s also the transparent aware mode to let in environmental sounds, which can be excellent if you’re waiting for your flight or stop to be called. No matter which mode you are in, the sound doesn’t disappoint, with clear audio and an effective adjustable EQ via the Bose app.
Battery life is rated at around 24 hours, better than many Bose headphones, and able to easily handle a day of traveling without needing to recharge until you’re ready to collapse in a hotel room. They’re a bit expensive, but frequent travelers will find them a valuable companion for finding a little tranquility.
Jacob Roach / Digital Trends SteelSeries Arctis Nova Pro The best for gaming Top-tier audio quality Expansive Sonar software High-quality ANC Comfortable fit with multiple adjustment points Fully retractable microphone Dual USB inputs GameDAC doesn't fully integrate with Sonar Microphone is prone to pick up noise Spatial audio can have nasty interactions with EQ SteelSeries makes some of the best headphones and headsets for gaming around, with its Arctis brand having a prestigious lineage that has included the wired Arctis Pro , and the Arctis 7 before it. And as the gaming experts here at Digital Trends have opined, the latest in the lineup, the redesigned Arctis Nova Pro Wireless , has set a new standard.
As you might expect from a pair of headphones with gaming in mind (and at this price), the Nova Pro Wireless are packed with features for gamers. Our reviewer, Jacob Roach , praised their natural sound as "dynamic and lively across the frequency spectrum," with solid ANC and immersive 360-degree surround sound and configurable EQing that he said also makes movies sound excellent, too.
But you're here for the gaming stuff, aren't you? A key component of the Arctis Nova Pro Wireless is its GameDAC unit which has dual USB ports so you can connect to and seamlessly switch between two systems, such as a PC and a console or two consoles, at the touch of a button. Additional connectivity with a 3.5mm line-in and line-out, combine with the headphones' wireless connectivity, means that you can also have a set of powered speakers connected allowing you to also switch between listening on the headphones or your speakers without touching a cable.
And multi-system connect means you can be connected to the GameDAC and a smartphone or device through Bluetooth so you can also take calls, listen to Spotify, or access Discord as well. As we said, tons of features.
The Nova Pro Wireless' Sonar Audio software is also pretty crazy, allowing you to mix and fine-tune your gaming sound with a 10-band EQ, and several presets for popular games that let you adjust specific elements like footsteps, gunshots, and other critical sounds. You can also adjust chat volume levels and even the sound of the Nova Pro's own fully-retractable microphone.
Frequently Asked Questions There are a ton of manufacturers currently making awesome headphones, from major brands to smaller boutique outfits, so there is no clear winner when it comes to the best company in the headphone world. Some of our current favorite brands include Sony, Bose, Sennheiser, SteelSeries, Bowers & Wilkins and Apple.
We typically recommend buying from a major retailer like Amazon, Best Buy, or Walmart. But smaller, more specialized local audio retailers might have a set of headphones that you can actually try, which is the ideal way to buy these personal audio gadgets.
That depends on what you’re using them for and how much you’re willing to spend. At the high-end, over-ear and in-ear headphones can both perform fantastically. For those of us not willing to spend thousands on headphones, over-ear headphones typically offer better bass response and a bigger soundstage, but in-ear headphones are more portable and convenient — especially wireless earbuds.
 And, because they're placed right up against (or even inside) your ear canals, they offer the most intimate sound quality you can get, though not everyone likes that inside-your-head sound.
Either wireless headphones, like the Adidas RPT-01, or true wireless earbud models, both of which feature sweat proofing, are far and away the best headphones for working out because you’ll never have wires to deal with. These workout-specific models also put an emphasis on low-end bass, which lets you feel the rhythm of your chosen tracks. You may also be interested in bone-conduction headphones, which keep your ears clear and are great headphones for swimming.
Closed-back over-ear headphones or snug-fitting in-ear headphones are the best way to ensure your favorite tunes won’t leak out into the world around you.
Headphones with this feature use exterior microphones to capture the sound around you. They then reproduce matching frequencies with their phase inverted to cancel ambient noise. How well the system works depends on a wide variety of factors from software to hardware to how well the headphones fit. We have an explainer on how noise cancellation works.
Yes, you can find both Lightning and USB-C headphones on the market, but given that you might want to use your headphones with something other than a cell phone, we typically recommend you buy an adapter or wireless headphones, rather than headphones with such a specific kind of connector.
These days, virtually all wireless headphones and earbuds include a built-in microphone. That said, some wired models rely on a cable with an inline microphone, while others possess no calling features at all, so be sure to check before you buy if you want to make phone calls. We also have a roundup of the best headphones for phone calls , too.
Some lower-quality wireless models do lag when watching movies and YouTube on your cell phone, but in the vast majority of cases, they do not have audio lag. If you experience lag and your headphones have a companion app that lets you adjust EQ, try disabling those adjustments. Wired headphones won’t have any audio lag at all, and most Bluetooth models have such a small lag it's mostly imperceptible.
We test headphones, and everything else Digital Trends reviews , the way normal people live.
We run every pair through a rigorous testing process over several days or weeks. That includes playing them in all sorts of scenarios — be it on a bus, in the listening room, or at the office — and playing back from a wide array of sources. We know most people use their headphones with a smartphone, often with lower-quality MP3 resolution tracks, so we do, too.
However, we also move up to high-resolution audio files, as well as a wide variety of sources, including plugging in directly to a PC or Mac, using USB DACs (digital-to-analog converters), and employing high-quality, dedicated portable players and amplifiers. Finally, we compare the headphones to some of our go-to models, both in their class and price point, as well as a level or two above to find out if they can punch above their weight.
Editors' Recommendations 75 best Amazon Black Friday deals on laptops, TVs, Apple, and more Google Pixel Black Friday deals: Pixel 8, Pixel Watch, Pixel Buds and more Best Buy is almost giving away this 55-inch QLED TV today Best Buy Black Friday TV deals: Save on LG, Samsung, Sony, and more The best 75-inch TV Black Friday deals on Samsung, Sony, and more Best Products Headphones Audio / Video If a 65-inch TV is the perfect size for your home theater setup upgrade according to our guide on what size TV to buy, then you shouldn't miss the discounts that are available in this year's Black Friday deals. There are offers involving some of the best TV brands, including LG, Samsung, and Sony, ranging from affordable choices to top-of-the-line models that require a hefty investment. Sony TV Black Friday deals have some cheaper 65-inch options, and Samsung TV Black Friday deals have some of the more expensive ones (think The Frame). Best Buy Black Friday TV deals cover the gamut, so check them out if brand and size aren't too important. You're going to have to be quick with your purchase though -- we're not sure how much stock retailers have available for these 65-inch TVs for the shopping holiday, so if you don't want to miss out, you'll need to complete your transaction as soon as possible.
For other sizes, browse the best 32-inch TV Black Friday deals and 75-inch TV Black Friday deals.
The best 65-inch TV Black Friday deal Audio / Video Black Friday is right around the corner and even big name products like Apple's AirPods are on sale. Airpods, which are consistently among the best earbuds, are perfect for the iPhone wielder due to their ease of integration within the Apple ecosystem and cool features that can't be experienced anywhere else. So, if you're an iPhone and/or Mac user, keep reading. We expect these to be some of the most exciting Black Friday deals for you, and many appear on our list of the best Black Friday headphone and earbud deals. Though you may possibly be equally interested in the iPhone 15 case deals we've also recently uncovered.
We've broken up these deals into new and refurbished categories. This is because we know that if you're getting something at a gift, you probably want to get a brand new product. However, we strongly encourage you to try a refurbished product if you're buying for yourself. The reasons are plentiful, with refurbished goods being good for your wallet and the environment, as well as having the deepest cutting deals. Refurbished goods from reliable brands (these deals come from Walmart, Best Buy, and Amazon) all have high quality bars to pass before being sold, so you may as well try them.
Best AirPods Black Friday Deals Scouring high and low, here is what we're finding in terms of AirPods. Whether we're seeing the relatively new AirPods 3 or the, in tech terms, "ancient" original AirPods Pro, we are seeing good deals roll out at this time. These deals are perfect to shop for both yourself and others, as gifts. If you like your bass heavy, check out Beats Black Friday deals, since they're heavier in the low end and are also owned by Apple.
Audio / Video Bringing a projector into your home theater setup is one of the best ways to step things up as close to the movie theater experience as possible. The technology might seem daunting if you're new to home theater projectors, but today's models are easier to set up and use than ever, can be connected to soundbars and other sound systems with ease, and can be ready to start projecting with only a few short steps.
Capable of throwing images from around 100 to 200 inches in size on a wall or a projector screen, and able to be connected to everything from streaming devices, and game consoles to laptops, smartphones, and more, modern options range from cinema grade 4K laser projector to ultra-rugged and impossibly compact projectors that you can take anywhere, from camping trips to a weekend at the cottage.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
