Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Windows 12 GTA 5 Cheats Wordle Today iPhone 15 Deals Upcoming Movies Nintendo Switch 2 NYT Connections Today Google Pixel 8 Pro Review Home Audio / Video Products Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? The best soundbars of 2023: a sound upgrade for your TV By Derek Malcolm and Simon Cohen Close While the latest TVs get bigger, brighter, thinner, and offer ever-more gobsmacking picture quality, one of the sacrifices of all this sophisticated tech has, and perhaps always will be, sound. But there's no reason anyone has to settle for poor TV sound when there's such a great selection of soundbars out there to satisfy a range of budgets and features. And while we'd always recommend a complete AV receiver and set of speakers first, a great soundbar can bring big and full sound to your TV and movies with better dialog clarity and impact.
A soundbar can deliver room-filling immersive sound with Dolby Atmos support while others come with subwoofers and additional surround speakers you can mount on a wall to save space, and some are even wireless. Some have big booming volume while others are more suited to smaller rooms like apartments, and some are just designed to blow you away completely, like the 3,000-watt Nakmichi Dragon.
 There's a soundbar for every situation and budget.
But when it comes to sheer versatility and performance, the Sonos Arc is the whole package. The Arc is compatible with Dolby Atmos , it has room-filling sound, it's expandable, it doubles as a smart speaker, and there's nothing like it on this list when it comes to multiroom audio. It's certainly not the cheapest soundbar you'll find, but once you consider its many strengths, it's hard to deny the value Sonos provides with the Arc.
That's not to say it's the only soundbar out there worth your hard-earned cash, though. Far from it, in fact. We've stocked this list with multiple other recommendations for you to check out, so you’ll have plenty of options to find the right soundbar for your setup and preferred media.
Save on everything from laptops and tablets, to coffee makers and air purifiers, and a whole host of Apple tech like iPad, Apple Watch and even the latest M3 MacBooks, as well as smart home essentials like the Amazon Echo and smart bulbs.
More More More More More More More Simon Cohen / Digital Trends Sonos Arc The best overall soundbar Excellent surround sound Easy and simple setup Decent Dolby Atmos from a single speaker Choice of Alexa or Google Assistant No HDMI inputs Not ideal for all music genres At the risk of sounding too sensational, the Sonos Arc embodies everything Sonos is about.
 It's incredibly easy to set up and use, it provides great sound, and it seamlessly incorporates itself into your larger network of whole-home Sonos sound. With all of that packed in, it would have been easy for Dolby Atmos to be an afterthought.
Quite the contrary, as it turns out. The Arc uses up-firing drivers to re-create Dolby Atmos sound, adding a solid sense of 3D space to action films, sports, and more. On its own the Arc is impressive, but you can easily expand its home theater capabilities by adding other Sonos speakers as surround satellites, such as a pair of Play Ones or even Sonos' latest and greatest, the Era 100 and Era 300 speakers, the latter of which also fires out incredible Dolby Atmos sound. Plus, you now have two choices for low-frequency effects: the magnificent — if very expensive — Sonos Sub and the new, smaller Sub Mini.
 HDMI eARC connectivity makes the Arc a breeze to add to your TV and set up.
The Sonos Arc is also a smart speaker, with three choices of voice assistant: the bare-bones but super useful Sonos Voice Control for Sonos-only functions, plus Alexa and Google Assistant, which can control Sonos products and much more, too.
Additionally, the Sonos Arc is terrific for listening to music. The Sonos app gives you an incredible amount of control over the Arc (and any other Sonos speakers in your home), with access to all kinds of music streaming services, including Dolby Atmos Music tracks, which sound unreal on the Arc, especially if you were to add those Era 100s or Era 300s to the mix.
All around, the Sonos Arc will take your TV to the next level and deliver a fantastic music-listening setup as well.
More Riley Yong/Digital Trends Vizio M-Series AiO The best soundbar for $200 or less Great fidelity for the price Excellent dialogue clarity Wide soundstage Ample bass Good dynamics No perceived Dolby Atmos effects When you get right down to it, people buy soundbars because they want better sound from their TV, but they're not interested in all of the convoluted wiring, settings, or the expense involved in going with a full home theater system.
 And when it comes to delivering on that goal for the least amount of money, Vizio's 2023 M-Series AiO is a slam-dunk.
It starts with a single speaker, which is compact and understated — no flashy metal finishes or exposed drivers — just an elegant trapezoid wrapped in dark gray fabric. Getting it connected is a cinch — just plug it into your TV using the included HDMI cable, or you can use your own optical cable. That's it.
The included remote makes it easy to control (or thanks to HDMI eARC, you can control it with your TV remote), and if you own a Vizio TV, all of the key settings will be merged into your TV's on-screen menus, which is a great addition, and something you rarely see on any soundbar regardless of price.
The M-Series' audio chops are impressive, especially the bass response, which surprised our reviewer Caleb Denison with its power. In his estimation, it's better than what many cheaply-built wireless subwoofers offer, so you won't miss that extra black box at all. Dialog in movies is crisp and clear, so you won't be leaning across to your friends and family to whisper, "What did she just say?" You get an HDMI input, and the M-Series has a special trick up its sleeve for folks who want to wall-mount it. Sensors inside automatically reconfigure the tuning of the drivers to ensure you get the best sound, even when the speaker is oriented with its top facing you.
There's only one real caveat with the M-Series AiO: Despite being labeled as Dolby Atmos-capable, our reviewer wasn't able to discern much in the way of a 3D sound experience when listening to Atmos content. Is it a deal-breaker? No — at this price, we don't expect any Dolby Atmos soundbar will perform significantly better. If Dolby Atmos on a budget is your goal, check out the Vizio M-Series 5.1 soundbar (M51a-H6/M51ax-J6) farther down on this list.
More Simon Cohen / Digital Trends / Digital Trends Bose Smart Soundbar 600 The best small soundbar Easy setup Excellent Atmos for its size Clear and engaging dialog AirPlay and Chromecast Good music quality No HDMI inputs Smart speaker is Alexa-only Limited in-app music services When compared to Sonos, Bose still has a ways to go when it comes to multiroom sound and streaming music service integration, but thanks to the 600's built-in up-firing height drivers, it's the best small speaker for movies and TV — especially if Dolby Atmos is involved.
Bass and dialog clarity are two especially bright spots for the Smart Soundbar 600, but it's the sheer size of the speaker's soundstage that you notice the most. It projects sound upward, outward, and to the sides so effectively, you'll swear there are additional speakers in your room. If the effect isn't powerful enough, you can add the real deal — the 600 is compatible with two models of wireless Bose subwoofers and two models of wireless Bose surround speakers.
Like its predecessor, the Smart Soundbar 300, and the Sonos Beam Gen 2 , the 600 can act as a smart speaker, but only using Amazon's Alexa AI. Google Assistant is still compatible, but it's no longer built-in. However, you do get Chromecast in addition to AirPlay and Bluetooth, making the Smart Soundbar 600 a better streaming choice for Android users than Sonos (AirPlay only).
The Smart Soundbar 600 also has a feature that's custom-tailored to bedrooms: You can connect any compatible Bose headphones over Bluetooth for private listening.
We still love the Sonos Beam Gen 2 — and strongly recommend it if you're looking to build or expand a multiroom wireless audio system — but for immersive sound, the leader right now is Bose. Additional honorable mention goes to the Sony HT-S2000 , which excels at Dolby Atmos sound for around the same price, but lacks some of the 600's features such as voice assistants and connectivity.
Simon Cohen / Digital Trends Sennheiser Ambeo Soundbar Plus The best Dolby Atmos sound from a single speaker Fantastic 3D sound Lots of connections Built-in room tuning Up to 4 wireless subs/1 wired sub AirPlay/Chromecast/Tidal Connect Alexa built-in Dolby Atmos/DTS:X Sony 360/MPEG-H Still expensive Only HDMI 2.0a Relies heavily on mobile app Weird Alexa integration If you want to get the most immersive and powerful sound possible from a soundbar — with no subwoofers or extra surround speakers — the Sennheiser Ambeo Soundbar Plus is without equal. Its secret sauce is the Ambeo digital signal processing that Sennheiser pioneered with its first soundbar, the recently renamed Ambeo Soundbar Max.
You can think of Ambeo as a turbo-charger for immersive, 3D audio. Using the Soundbar Plus' nine drivers and amps, it projects sound around even large rooms in such a way that you become convinced there must be speakers hiding behind your furniture or in your ceiling. It truly brings Dolby Atmos, DTS:X , and even two-channel stereo to life in a way that is nothing short of mesmerizing. To get even close to this effect, most soundbars need to add additional surround speakers, and even then, they don't always succeed.
With two HDMI 2.0a inputs (plus optical and analog ports) and an HDMI 2.1 ARC/eARC input/output, there's no need to give up ports on your TV. And with the option to use Sennheiser's wireless Ambeo subs (up to four) or your own wired subwoofer , you're not locked in to a specific accessory for low-end power. Its support for AirPlay, Chromecast, and Bluetooth means you're free to stream music to the bar from any device you own. And if you want to use it as a smart speaker, Amazon Alexa is built-in and can be turned on at any time.
At $1,500, it's one of the more expensive soundbars. And despite being able to add it to Google Home or Amazon Alexa, it's not a great choice for multiroom sound. But when you take into account its remarkable performance as an Atmos speaker, it's worth every penny. For a more powerful (but considerably larger) option, see the Sennheiser Ambeo Soundbar Max.
Riley Young/Digital Trends Vizio Elevate 5.1.4 Home Theater Soundbar The best Dolby Atmos for under $1,000 Simple setup, clear chart showing connections Wonderfully unique design Deep control over sound output levels Exceptionally clear dialogue Effects dependent on room Costly Vizio appears several times on this list, and for good reason. The company has a huge (though sometimes confusing) array of soundbars at a variety of prices for every budget and room size. The Elevate is the company's flagship and it deserves serious consideration by anyone who wants an elegantly designed and powerful sound system for their TV.
The Elevate's signature feature is its rotating speaker modules. They sit at the ends of the soundbar and rotate from front-firing to up-firing whenever Dolby Atmos or DTS:X content is being played. When combined with the up-firing drivers embedded in the surround speakers, you get four height channels, for overhead sound effects that get surprisingly close to the more expensive Samsung HW-Q990B. Better yet, all of those 5.1.4 channels are individually controllable, so you can easily tune the speakers to your space.
The included wireless subwoofer has a generous eight-inch driver and can reach as low as 30Hz, and has enough power to rattle your windows, even if it can't quite compare to the dedicated powered subs you'll find on more expensive component systems.
With two HDMI inputs and an HDMI ARC/eARC output, there's no problem with being able to attach external media sources, and Bluetooth is on tap for streaming music from your phone. The only thing missing is Wi-Fi, so there's no support for high-quality audio streaming from music services, no compatibility with AirPlay, Chromecast, or Amazon Alexa, and no multi-room audio.
Still, for the price, it's very hard to beat the Elevate for pure TV and movie immersion. The only thing that comes close is Vizio's own M-Series Elevate , which is $200 cheaper and lacks the flagship Elevate's rear up-firing drivers.
More Simon Cohen / Digital Trends Sony HT-A5000 The best for music and gaming 8K-ready HDMI input Excellent movie and music sound Easy on-screen setup Tons of connection options Hi-res, Sony 360RA, and DTS:X No EQ adjustments Some settings are buried Poor integration of music services If you're looking for a soundbar that can do a terrific job with movie and TV audio as well as advanced music playback, we think the Sony HT-A5000 is the speaker to beat.
It starts with a very well-appointed (if somewhat plainly styled) soundbar, that packs its own built-in subwoofer. That driver is powerful enough that unless you're looking to shake your fillings loose, you probably don't need a dedicated sub. Sony's virtual surround technology does a very good job creating an immersive sound field when listening to Dolby Atmos or DTS:X content, but it does a surprisingly good job upscaling regular two-channel content too. But the A5000's secret sauce lies in its connections and audio compatibility.
With Wi-Fi, AirPlay 2, Chromecast built-in , and Bluetooth (send and receive), it doesn't matter what kind of device you're holding in your hand — you'll be able to stream its audio content in the highest possible quality to the A5000. Better yet, Sony has included support for a huge variety of audio formats and qualities, from the lowliest MP3 files all the way up to hi-res 24-bit/96kHz FLAC and DSD tracks. You can play these files from a USB storage device, your home network, or virtually any streaming service that supports HD audio like Tidal, Amazon Music, or Apple Music. Want to explore the worlds of Dolby Atmos Music and Sony 360 Reality Audio (360RA)? The A5000 has you covered there too.
Even Bluetooth — normally the lowest-quality wireless audio link — has received an upgrade in the form of LDAC codec support. When connected to an LDAC-capable phone (mostly Android handsets), you'll get audio fidelity that almost rivals Wi-Fi.
That support for high-quality audio extends to the A5000's HDMI input. It can passthrough 8K and Dolby Vision, which is awesome for future-proofing, and with 4K @120Hz it's a good choice for gaming too. But it's even better news for those whose TVs don't support HDMI eARC: You'll still be able to get the very best, lossless version of Dolby Atmos by plugging your Blu-ray player or Nvidia Shield TV into the soundbar directly, thereby avoiding the down-conversion that some older TVs will do to Dolby Atmos content.
Add to this Sony's excellent on-screen menus and setup process, auto-room calibration, and tight integration with Sony Bravia TVs and you've got a soundbar that easily justifies its admittedly high $1,000 price. The only thing we wish Sony had included is the ability to adjust the HT-A5000's sound EQ parameters.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Samsung HW-Q990B Dolby Atmos Soundbar The best home theater replacement Excellent fidelity Impressive Dolby Atmos effects Solid bass performance Granular-level controls Handles large rooms easily Power cords are too short While soundbars can be very attractive because of their simplicity, more and more folks want them to be genuine home-theater-in-a-box, complete sound systems, and the Samsung HW-Q990B goes further than any other system toward meeting that goal.
With its included wireless subwoofer and surround speakers, the Q990B pumps out an astonishing 656 watts of power via 22 discrete drivers in an 11.1.4 configuration. It's a system that is capable of amazing Dolby Atmos and DTS:X sound. We had originally selected LG's excellent S95QR for this category, but once we heard the Q990B, it was no contest. To quote our reviewer, "Once I dialed this system in for my setup and this room? It was nothing short of outstanding." He also noted that the soundbar's center channel clarity — key for dialog reproduction — was the best he'd ever heard on a soundbar.
You get two HDMI 2.1 inputs with 4K/HDR10+ passthrough (though notably, not Dolby Vision), so even if your TV's HDMI ports are full or it doesn't support Dolby Atmos, you're covered — just plug a streaming device or game console into the soundbar and you've got the best sound and video on tap. If your TV is also a recent Samsung model, you get the benefit of wireless Dolby Atmos (no need to run an HDMI cable to the TV) and Q-Symphony, which lets the TV's speakers augment the soundbar instead of sitting there unused.
With Wi-Fi connectivity, Apple AirPlay 2, and Alexa built-in (plus Bluetooth, naturally), there are plenty of ways to stream music to this system.
It can be a bit daunting to work your way through all of the menus and options, but Samsung's Smart Things app for iOS/Android makes the task a bit easier. When it's all dialed in, you'll be thrilled with the sound. This is as close as a single product in a box can get to a fully installed component system.
If it's a home theater replacement you're after, we also strongly recommend you check out the Klipsch Cinema 1200 , an absolute beast of a system that packs enough power to give many AV receiver-based setups a run for their money.
More Dan Baker/Digital Trends Vizio M-Series 5.1 soundbar (M51a-H6/M51ax-J6) The best budget soundbar eARC, Dolby Atmos, DTS:X support Impressive subwoofer Seamless surround effects Comprehensive control Excellent fidelity One HDMI input Less suitable for larger rooms The Vizio M-Series looks like a typical soundbar at 36 inches in length, and its 6-inch wireless subwoofer looks like many others. But what helps this model stand apart is its more reasonable price and its versatility.
If you have a medium-to-large room, you can place the subwoofer toward the rear of the space which lets you position the wired surround modules behind the viewing area. But if you've got a smaller space, you can put the sub near the front — the M-Series will automatically calibrate the system to give you the best sound possible.
But that's putting the cart before the horse. The M-Series sounds amazing, with clear highs and mids for dialog, and precise bass response. With support for both virtualized Dolby Atmos and DTS Virtual:X, you may not get quite the jaw-dropping overhead sounds that you'll find with up-firing soundbars like the Arc or the Ambeo, but it's a much more immersive experience than a traditional 5.1 setup.
Because of its HDMI eARC port, the M-Series can support much higher bandwidth, lossless hi-res audio when connected to a compatible TV. An extra HDMI input means that you're not forced to give up an input on your TV.
There's also the usual complement of connections, including Bluetooth, optical in, and a USB port for removable drive-based audio files.
The only real caveat with the M-Series is the lack of Wi-Fi. This means you can't stream music to it via AirPlay or Chromecast, and it can't be controlled via voice assistants like Alexa and Google Assistant. But that one aspect notwithstanding, the Vizio M-Series is an outstanding choice for anyone who wants fun, room-filling surround sound without breaking the bank.
More Zvox Zvox AV157 TV Speaker The best for dialog enhancement Small footprint Easy connections and setup Super-clear and adjustable dialog Expensive for a small speaker No wireless connections for music The AV157 packs six levels of Zvox's AccuVoice technology for speech enhancement and an additional six levels of its SuperVoice tech for a huge range of assistance for those who are hearing-impaired or who just struggle to separate speech from other sounds.
The 12 levels of AccuVoice and SuperVoice determine how pronounced this effect is. At its most powerful, the AV157 can deliver speech so clear and precise, it's almost painful. But for those who suffer from hearing loss, it will be a pleasure.
But better dialog is only the beginning. The AV157 is also a surprisingly capable movie and music speaker too. Turn on the surround sound mode and it does a decent job with all kinds of immersive soundtracks.
Bass performance doesn't quite measure up to full-size soundbars, but it's solid and well-balanced. Should you want to get a bit more rumble, you can add an external wired subwoofer using the analog sub-woofer output.
Connections are modest: You can use an optical cable or an analog cable to connect the AV157 to your TV, and there's no Bluetooth or Wi-Fi. But this keeps things simple and you won't have to give up an HDMI port just to get better sound from your TV.
The included remote is also a simple but effective device, with large, easy-to-press, and clearly labeled buttons.
If you're tired of relying on subtitles to understand what your favorite actors are saying, the Zvox AV157 is a perfect TV companion.
Simon Cohen / Digital Trends Sonos Ray Best Sonos for smaller rooms and smaller budgets Compact for versatile placement Impressive sound for its size Expandable to a full 5.1 system Easy setup and control Pricey for a small soundbar Lacks a bit of midrange detail So you've wanted to get into Sonos for your TV room, but your room's a bit too small for the big sound and bigger price of its flagship Sonos Arc (on our list above) or even the middle-tier Beam (2nd gen ). In 2022 Sonos finally addressed this need and launched the Sonos Ray, and while it's still more pricey than some of the choices on our list, this is Sonos we're talking about, and should you choose, the Ray can either add to your existing multi-room Sonos system or be the beginning of one.
Similar in size and look to the Beam, the Ray comes in black and white finishes and looks sharp anywhere, and it can also be wall-mounted with a bracket you can get from Sonos.
Setup is signature Sonos simple, and once it is it's easy to control with the excellent Sonos app, which you can use to control volume, EQing, and grouping with other Sonos speakers. There are also touch controls on the top of the soundbar, too.
While the Sonos Ray isn't a Dolby Atmos soundbar like its Beam (2nd gen) and Arc siblings, optical connectivity to your TV allows for Dolby Digital 5.1 and DTS Digital Surround , if and when you want to expand your system with, for example, a Sonos Sub Mini and a pair of Sonos Era 100s or Sonos Ones as rear surrounds.
And it kind of goes without saying that it sounds good, too, with our reviewer Simon Cohen praising its ability to deliver big low-end and mids, as well as clear highs, perfect for sound effects in movies such as whizzing bullets, screeching tires, and barking dogs. Music, Cohen says, sounds equally good, and, as per all Sonos speakers, you get access to all your streaming services like Tidal , Spotify, Apple Music , and more.
More Zeke Jones / Digital Trends Apple HomePod (2nd Gen) Best soundbar alternative for Apple TV fans Great sound quality Incredible bass performance Dazzling Spatial Audio surround Plug and Play wireless Slick design Limited connection options No direct Spotify playback HomePod, the little Apple smart-speaker-that-could, made its triumphant return to store shelves early this year after the Cupertino company discontinued the original in 2021. It's an excellent-sounding speaker that has improved upon the original in a number of ways, it's packed with room-sensing tech that adapt the sound to basically anywhere you put it, and it's a top-notch smart speaker with Matter suppor t so it can work with and control all your home's connected smart devices, such as lights, thermostats, and more.
So why, you might ask, is a smart speaker included on our list of the best soundbars? Because, as our intrepid Editor-at-Large, Caleb Denison, discovered in his review, when you pair two 2nd-gen HomePods together and add a new Apple TV 4K , the combination easily competes with soundbars, including the Sonos Beam. So much so that Denison called the experience "downright magical." And while there are definitely some differences between the more expensive HomePods + Apple TV 4K setup (roughly $750) and a $500 Sonos Beam (HDMI eARC is the big one missing from the HomePod), pairing a set of HomePods together offer not only excellent stereo sound separation when listening to movies (something that is harder to achieve with a soundbar), but Spatial Audio for movies and TV is amazing. "Dialogue is crystal clear and perfectly centered, sound effects are spacious and enveloping — I definitely got the impression there were more speakers in the room," Denison gushed. Even the bass surprised him for a two-channel system, and if you want for a system that also does music just as well (or maybe you want to explore Dolby Atmos Music tracks, too), a set of HomePods might be worth a look.
More Zeke Jones/Digital Trends Nakamichi Dragon 11.4.6 surround sound system Best no-holds-barred, money-is-no-object soundbar Supremely clean highs Crystal-clear dialogue Massively powerful Seamless surround effects/object placement Ridiculously fun Lack of separate LFE and bass control OSD could use better integration Call it the dragon's egg at the end of this best soundbars list, call it the beast that'll burn a hole right through your wallet, call it what you want but whatever you do, don't call the Nakamichi Dragon surround sound system for the faint of heart. We'll try our best to describe it here, but it's worth taking a few minutes for Caleb's Denison's video review , or watch him put it head to head with a Sonos Arc system to get the bigger picture about this $3,900 11.4.6 surround sound system.
First, though, the basics: the Nakamichi Dragon consists of a massive 58-inch soundbar unit that weighs around 40 pounds and features 14 speakers and seven digital amplifiers. There are two 9-pound wireless surround sound speakers each with five drivers (side, rear, and up-firing), and two wireless subwoofers, each with two 8-inch drivers in them. Yeah, the total system output is 3,000 watts peaking at 125 decibels. Translation: loud.
The Nakamichi Dragon excels in volume, clarity, precision, soundstage, and just about every other audio-related term used to say "it sounds incredible" for both music and movies. But where it shines is in its abilities as a surround system , with support for Dolby Atmos and DTS:X. Through auditioning several surround sound examples, Denison noted the Dragon's ability to immerse him in cavernous reverbs and pinpoint-accurate object placement around the room — sounds even seem to originate from places in the room where there are no speakers. Dialogue is clear and easy to understand (depending on the sound mix, of course), and explosive rumble comes with ease form the Dragon's woofers.
Setup and calibration, while not for newbies, is pretty straightforward and id guided by a well-designed on-screen display that lets you select room size, EQing for games, movies, and more, as well as advanced calibration tools to get the system perfectly tuned for your uses.
Could you assemble a comparable system for less money? Of course you could. The $2,600 Sonos system (Arc soundbar, two Era 300s, one Sonos Sub), Denison compares the Dragon to in his video is roughly the same price (if you add a second Sub like the Dragon has, it's $3,400), and there are obviously full Atmos receiver/speaker setups you could get into for less. But if you've got the money and are a little more serious about your home theater audio, few can compete with the impact and clarity of the Dragon at this price.
Frequently Asked Questions They offer a small footprint, they’re affordable and easy to set up, and they sound much better than the speakers built into most TVs.
Virtually all modern soundbars connect to your TV via digital connection either with an optical or HDMI cable. The latter is generally preferred for TVs with HDMI ARC or eARC , as it allows for better sound and control of basic functionality with your TV remote. For Dolby Atmos, an HDMI connection is a prerequisite.
Some of them can be, yes. See the above for information about HDMI ARC.
Yes, many come with mounting brackets in the box, but almost all have optional wall-mount solutions you can buy later.
Technically yes, but we usually recommend mounting them below the TV. In general, we recommend you get them as close to ear level as possible for the best sound.
Most new soundbars do have this sort of wireless functionality. This typically allows you to stream music from your smartphone or home network directly to the soundbar. If a soundbar is also a smart speaker (e.g. Sonos Arc, Bose Soundbar 700) it will be Wi-Fi equipped.
Wi-Fi is generally preferable to Bluetooth for music streaming as its higher bandwidth supports higher quality formats like lossless FLAC, ALAC, WAV, and others. See the above question for wireless functionality with your TV or receiver.
No, not always. Some are built without them purposefully to save space. If they contain built-in subwoofers they can still deliver surprisingly strong bass, but most rely on a wired (or wireless) subwoofer for low-frequency sound.
Yes, but in slightly different ways. Some soundbars can double as smart speakers. The Sonos and Bose family of soundbars give you a choice of Google Assistant or Alexa, with the former also allowing you to use Sonos' Voice Control.
Soundbars can also be voice assistant-compatible, which means that you'll be able to use one or more voice assistants to control the soundbar if you already own a smart speaker or some other way to issue voice commands. Several soundbars can be added to Apple HomeKit, which lets you control them via Siri.
Still other soundbars, like Vizio's family of products, have dedicated smart speaker inputs so you can wire a Google Nest Mini or Amazon Echo into the soundbar. This lets the soundbar understand when you are trying to talk to your assistant, and it can lower the speaker volume automatically while letting you hear the assistant via the higher-quality soundbar.
No, but Apple's HomePod Mini its resurrected 2nd Gen HomePod can act as soundbar replacements if you also own an Apple TV 4K. You can set up a s et of HomePods as a stereo pair , which sounds amazing and might just be a good soundbar alternative.
Editors' Recommendations The best Dolby Atmos soundbars for 2023 One of Sony’s best Dolby Atmos soundbars is $300 off at Best Buy The best TV brands of 2023: from LG to TCL, which should you buy? The best October Prime Day soundbar deals available now The best speakers for 2023: great hi-fi options for music and more Best Products Sonos Sony Soundbars Speakers Audio / Video Blu-ray players may not be the ultra-expensive and revered AV components they once were, but these awesome disc players still have a meaningful place in your entertainment system. Streaming is definitely more convenient, but when it comes to packing byte after byte of picture and sound data onto a medium that doesn't require an internet connection (in most cases), an excellent Blu-ray player is still your best bet.
With its stellar picture, impressive codec support, and affordable price tag, our team ranks Sony’s UBP-X700M as the best Blu-ray player currently on the market. But we understand that what works for someone else might not work for you. Depending on what you’re looking for, some of the other best Blu-ray players we’ve rounded up might be a much better fit.
Audio / Video For the average TV watcher, one remote is usually all you’ll need to control your AV system. That’s because a majority of households are still rocking cable boxes, and that set-top remote is typically capable of controlling the power and volume of a TV, soundbar, and sometimes even an AV receiver. Furthermore, certain streaming devices (Roku comes to mind) come with remotes that can have an additional component or two programmed into them. But sometimes that’s just not enough.
If you’re the owner of a monstrous home theater system with every AV component known to man, you might need a top-notch universal remote to control all of your equipment. In years past, Logitech's Harmony line was the go-to name for multi-device remotes, but it’s been a minute since the company shuttered the popular universal controllers. If you can find one, however, the company still supports them. That being said, there are still a number of reputable options out there, and we’ve rounded up some of our favorites in the list below.
Audio / Video Most modern TVs are equipped with at least two HDMI inputs, and many offer up to four of these must-have AV connections. But in the event that your TV or entertainment system runs out of inputs for whatever gaming system or additional components you buy, you can always add an HDMI switcher to quickly solve your “need more ports” problem.
The best HDMI switchers feature four or more HDMI connections, with ports powered by the latest HD chipsets to bring you the best picture and sound quality you can get. They plug directly into one of the many HDMI inputs your TV already has and tout awesome features like automatic input-switching, 4K, 8K and 3D support, as well as remote control operation. If you're in need of a great HDMI switcher, we've compiled this roundup of the best models on the market right now.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
