Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Windows 12 GTA 5 Cheats Wordle Today iPhone 15 Deals Upcoming Movies Nintendo Switch 2 NYT Connections Today Google Pixel 8 Pro Review Home Audio / Video Products Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Sling TV: price, channels, extras and more By Phil Nickinson Close When it comes to streaming options in the U.S., Sling TV plans and prices continue to keep it among the best live TV streaming services available — at least in terms of price. That’s largely because it’s as close as you can get to true a la carte TV, which theoretically lets you pick and choose your channels. Sling TV isn’t quite that — it’s more of a skinny bundle situation. But it’s still an extremely good value.
There are, however, some fairly serious caveats. That’s in part because of the way Sling packages its channels. But also because there’s a strong probability that you won’t be able to get all of your local broadcast channels. That’s something you need to know upfront.
Here’s how it works: Sling TV is broken down into two tracks — Sling Orange and Sling Blue. Each has its own set of channels — Sling Orange has 31 channels and is more sports-heavy. Sling Blue has 39 channels and is more focused on news and entertainment. The idea is that if you want one track more than the other, you can just get one. But Sling is perfectly happy if you get both. Note that buying both plans together gets you fewer channels than the math would indicate — that’s because there is some overlap, and things total out at 43 channels.
Save on everything from laptops and tablets, to coffee makers and air purifiers, and a whole host of Apple tech like iPad, Apple Watch and even the latest M3 MacBooks, as well as smart home essentials like the Amazon Echo and smart bulbs.
If that doesn’t sound like a lot of channels, you’re right. The streaming service Philo gets you more than 70 channels for just $25 a month, for example.
Phil Nickinson/Digital Trends Sling TV price The basic Sling TV price is $40 a month for Sling Orange or Sling Blue, or you can pay $55 and get both. (That’s all before the first-month discount.) That’s the bare minimum for Sling. But while Sling has fewer channels out of the gate than its competitors, there are a number of Extras that you can tack on to expand your Sling experience.
Those Extras are bundles of additional channels that you can tack onto your Orange or Blue plan. They all come with an extra monthly fee, of course, so you’ll want to keep an eye on things before that $40-a-month bargain turns into a $100-a-month boondoggle. The Extras — which we detail below in the Sling channels section — range from $6 a month to $21 a month.
There are Premium channels available, too — again, for additional fees. Some are just single channels. Others — Showtime, for instance — include multiple channels for a single price. A sole premium channel may cost as low as $3 a month, while others range up to $10 a month.
And there are other additions to the service that can increase the price, and get it above and beyond its competitors. Do your homework. Keep an eye on what you’re spending.
Sling free trial Sling TV no longer has a standard free trial, which actually is different than most of its competitors. Instead, they offer a half-off deal on your first month. (That’s the sort of thing that’s likely to come and go, though, so don’t be surprised if you see something different. We’ll update if and when things change.) Phil Nickinson/Digital Trends Sling TV channels Sling Orange channels Following are the channels available on the $35-a-month Sling Orange track. Channels that also are available on the Sling Blue track are noted in bold.
A&E , AMC , AXS TV , BBC America , BET , Bloomberg Television , Charge! , CNN , Cartoon Network , Comedy Central , Comet , Disney Channel, E!, ESPN, ESPN2, ESPN3, Food Network , Freeform, Fuse , HGTV , History Channel , IFC , Investigation Discovery , Lifetime , Local Now , MGM+ Drive-In , Motor Trend, Nick Jr.
, TBS , TNT , Travel Channel , Vice.
Sling TV Extras on the Orange track These are the Extras available on the Sling Orange track with the monthly price, plus the channels you get: Sports Extra ($11): SEC Network, ACC Network, PAC 12 Network, Longhorn Network, beIN Sports, NBA TV, ACC Network X, MLB Network, SEC Network+, ESPNU, ESPNews, Tennis Channel, NHL Network, MLB Strike Zone Comedy Extra ($6): MTV, truTV, feTV, Laff, Paramount Network, MTV 2, CMT, Logo, Revolt, Game Show Network, TV Land News Extra ($6): BBC World News, News Nation, NewsMax, HLN, Weather Nation, EuroNews, Science, News 18, RT America, CGTN, Law & Crime Lifestyle Extra ($6): VH-1, Cooking Channel, DIY, FYI, Hallmark Channel, We TV, LMN, Hallmark Movies & Mysteries, Hallmark Drama Hollywood Extra ($6): Reelz, Heroes & Icons, Start TV, Grit, HDNet Movies, Sundance TV, Cinemoi, TCM, Bounce Heartland Extra ($6): World Fishing Network, INSP TV, Sportsman Channel, Pursuit, Outdoor Channel, GAC Family, GAC Living, American Heroes Channel, RFD TV, Destination America, PixL, Cowboy Channel AMC+ ($7): AMC+, Shudder, Sundance Now, IFC Films Unlimited Sling Blue channels Following are the channels available on the $35-a-month Sling Blue track. Channels that also are available on the Sling Orange track are noted in bold.
A&E , AMC , AXS TV , BBC America , BET , Bloomberg Television , Bravo, Charge! , CNN , Cartoon Network , Comedy Central , Comet , Discovery Channel, E!, Fox (Select Markets), FS1, FX, Food Network , Fox News, Fuse , HGTV , HLN, History Channel , IFC , Investigation Discovery , Lifetime , Local Now , MGM+ Drive-In , MSNBC, NBC (Select Markets), NFL Network, National Geographic, Nick Jr.
, SYFY, TBS , TLC, TNT , Travel Channel , USA, Vice , truTV Sling TV Extras on the Blue track These are the Extras available on the Sling Blue track, with the monthly price, and the channels you get: Sports Extra ($11): NFL Red Zone, Big10 Network, NBA TV, FS2, MLB Network, NHL Network, Golf Channel, beIN Sports, PAC 12 Network, Tennis Channel, MLB Strike Zone, Olympic Channel Comedy Extra ($6): MTV, truTV, feTV, Laff, Paramount Network, MTV 2, CMT, Logo, Revolt, Game Show Network, TV Land Kids Extra ($6): NickToons, TeenNick, Boomerang, BabyTV, DuckTV News Extra ($6): Fox Business, News Nation, CNBC, BBC World News, Law & Crime, NewsMax, Weather Nation, Science, EuroNews, France 24, News 18, NDTV 24×7, CGTN Lifestyle Extra ($6): VH-1, Oxygen, Cooking Channel, DIY, FYI, Hallmark Channel, We TV, LMN, Hallmark Movies & Mysteries, Hallmark Drama Hollywood Extra ($6): FXX, Heroes & Icons, FXM, Reelz, Start TV, Grit, HD Net Movies, Sundance TV, Cinemoi, TCM, Bounce Heartland Extra ($6): NatGeo Wild, World Fishing Network, INSP, Pursuit, Sportsman Channel, Outdoor Channel, GAC Family, GAC Living, Destination America, RFD TV, PixL, Cowboy Channel AMC+ ($7): AMC+, Shudder, Sundance Now, IFC Films Unlimited Further reading Sling TV Orange vs. Blue Sling TV vs. Hulu Premium options In addition to the basic plans and Extras, Sling TV has a pretty healthy stable of premium channels available. There’s a monthly fee for each, of course, so you’ll need to mind what you’re spending. Here’s some of what’s available: Showtime channels ($10): Nine channels of award-winning series, films, and originals Starz channels ($9): Six channels of the best Hollywood has to offer, plus originals EPIX channels ($5): Four channels with the latest hits and exclusives CineFest ($5): Cult classics, indie films, and more Cinemoi ($3): Film, fashion, and lifestyle Comedy Dynamics ($5): All things comedy, with stand-up specials, shows, and films BET+ ($10): More than 2,000 hours of Black content, plus the best of Tyler Perry Noggin ($8): More than 1,000 ad-free Nick Jr. episodes ScreamFlix ($3): The next-gen horror from the best storytellers around VSiN ($4): News for sports betting, including analysis and odds UP Faith & Family ($5): Religious dramas, comedies, and originals Stingray Karaoke ($7): More than 10,000 popular songs for you to sing to CONtv ($5): Live panels and series from fan conventions The Country Network ($3): Only the best country music videos True Royalty TV ($6): All things Royals CuriosityStream ($3): Documentaries spanning science, space, tech, and health Docurama ($5): Award-winning documentaries, films, and series DOGTV ($5): A TV channel for the bestest boys and girls on four legs Dove Channel ($5): Religious movies and TV series, family-friendly Magnolia Selects ($5): Curated films & TV series across all genres Monsters & Nightmares ($3): Horror, thriller, and sci-fi Warriors & Gangsters ($3): Fast-paced thrillers and action content DOX ($3): Documentaries and docuseries for movie lovers Qello Concerts by Stingray ($8): Live music concerts and documentaries FlixLatino ($3): More than 250 series, documentaries, and movies in Spanish Kartoon Channel ($4): Safe and fun place for kids, with content for the full family Grokker ($7): Fitness, meditation, and cooking shows for beginners and experts Hallmark Movies Now ($6): More than 1,000 hours of ad-free content and stories Here TV ($8): GLAAD- and Academy Award-winning films Hopster ($5): Pre-school-age educational shows, ad-free Outside TV Features ($5): Personal journeys in adventure sports, as well as documentaries, films, series Pantaya ($6): Spanish-language new films, first-run exclusives You can check out the entire list of 46 premium options on Sling’s website.
Local channels While Fox and NBC are available in select markets as part of Sling Blue, you basically need to go into Sling TV expecting to not have access to your local broadcast affiliates. That’s just the way it works.
You’ll find that Sling TV pushes something called AirTV , which really is just a broadcast tuner that you’ll connect to an over-the-air antenna. You can buy both as a bundle if you’d like. And this isn’t a horrible option, even though it’s not as simple as just being able to stream all your local channels as you can do on other services. It’s also an additional expense (starting at $80), plus the one-time hassle of setting everything up.
AirTV does, however, at least put those local channels straight into your on-screen Sling TV guide, so everything is in one place. That’s handy enough. It also does so over your home wireless network, so you can watch on all your devices with Sling, not just on your TV.
Phil Nickinson / Digital Trends Sling TV DVR storage Sling TV comes with 50 hours of cloud-based storage for free, on any plan. It calls that “DVR Free.” That came in response to competitors offering better choices, and Sling charging extra for anything useful. It’s better than nothing, but still a far cry from YouTube TV’s free unlimited recording.
If 50 hours just isn’t enough, you can upgrade to “DVR Plus,” which gives you 200 hours for $5 a month.
Both options allow you to fast-forward through commercials, and you’re able to protect the recording from automatic deletion.
One other caveat is that you’re not able to record anything on ESPN3, ACC Network Extra, SEC Network+, or Local Now.
International channels Sling TV also has a sizable number of international options, from all over the world. And we’re not just talking about the same options in different languages. These are separate packages that get you the best content from all over.
Options from India, for example, include Hindi, Urdu, Bangla, Punjabi, Kannada, Malayalam, Marathi, Tamil, and Telugu. There’s a separate package just for cricket, too. There also are video-on-demand services from Voot, Desi Binge, Sonyliv, MXONE, and Eros Now.
European options include French, German, Greek, Italian, and Polish. East Asian fare includes Cantonese, Mandarin, and Taiwanese.
Watch Sling on … Sling TV is available on the best streaming devices around. That means devices like Roku and Amazon Fire TV, which make up the top two platforms in the world. You’re also able to watch Sling TV on Google TV and Android TV, Apple TV, Chromecast, and Nest Hub devices, and on a smattering of smart TVs from Vizio, Samsung, and LG.
And, of course, you can watch Sling TV on your phone, or in a web browser.
Sling TV also is available on Xbox Series S and Series X, on the Meta (formerly Oculus) VR platform, on TIVO Stream, and on Facebook Portal devices.
Editors' Recommendations The best 70-inch TV Black Friday deals from LG, Samsung, and more The best 75-inch TV Black Friday deals on Samsung, Sony, and more The best QLED TV Black Friday deals on TCL, Samsung, Vizio, and more This 85-inch Samsung 4K TV just got a massive price cut Peacock TV free trial: Can you stream for free Best Products Cord Cutting 101 Streaming Services Audio / Video Almost no one would argue that Netflix is not the godfather of streaming. It basically started the entire movie streaming concept and reinvented it when it launched its first original program, House of Cards. Even though the streaming market is a bit more crowded now, Netflix still has some unbeatable programming. Netflix prices have risen over the last few years, and there are some hints that it might keep rising. If you're thinking about joining or rejoining the streaming giant but aren't quite sure, you're probably looking for a free trial. We've collected all the information you need to know on how to save some money with a new Netflix account.
Is there a Netflix free trial? Just as there's no Disney Plus free trial, you're out of luck if you're hoping to find a Netflix free trial on offer right now. There was a 30-day free trial in the past but Netflix scuttled it a couple of years ago, and we don't anticipate it coming back any time soon. Unlike some other streaming services (the excellent 30-day Hulu free trial comes to mind), Netflix doesn't appear to feel obliged to run free-trial offers. That's a tough break for the "try before you buy" crowd, but the sad truth is that, like Disney+, Netflix has a pretty captive audience and doesn't really need to do much to entice people to sign up. The good news is that Netflix has flexible plans, allowing you to upgrade, downgrade, or cancel your subscription at any time with no punitive fees. There are no contracts or commitments to worry about if you decide the service isn't for you, or just want to take a break for awhile.
Audio / Video Is it time to upgrade your home theater system? The Super Bowl is closer than you think, and the NBA season just started. There are new blockbuster movies hitting streaming services everyday. Plus, TVs are not nearly as expensive as they were even five years ago. We've collected the bst of the best TV deals out there right now, including unmissable OLED TV deals and QLED TV deals. These deals come from top-of-the-line brands like LG and Samsung as well as budget options like Roku, Hisense and TCL.
40-inch Roku Select Series HDTV -- $180, was $230 If you're looking for a cheap 4K TV with all the features, and size doesn't matter, this 40-inch Roku is the perfect option -- you can stop reading now. This little smart TV is perfect for a dorm room, workspace or garage. It has Roku smart tech in it, so you can stream your favorite shows right from the TV without needing a cable box, console, or even a streaming stick. But please note: This is the only TV on this list that is not 4K, just FHD, or 1080p.
Audio / Video You probably never imagined that you can get a 50-inch QLED TV for just $250, but that's all you'll have to pay for the 50-inch TCL Q5 4K QLED TV if you purchase it from Best Buy right now due to a $150 discount on its original price of $400. We don't think it's going to stay this cheap for long though, as stocks are probably already flying off the shelves. Add it to your cart and check out immediately, or else you may miss one of the most affordable QLED TV deals in the market right now.
Why you should buy the 50-inch TCL Q5 4K QLED TV The TCL Q5 4K QLED TV features QLED technology behind its 50-inch screen -- a layer of quantum dots that supercharges color. Combined with 4K Ultra HD resolution, you'll be able to watch your favorite shows and movies with lifelike details, while the TV's support for the most advanced HDR formats and DTS Virtual: X will further elevate picture and sound quality to cinematic levels. Between QLED and OLED TVs, you'll want a QLED TV like the TCL Q5 4K QLED TV if you want unparalleled brightness, a longer life span for your TV, and no risk of getting a screen burn-in.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
