Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Deals Prime Day telescope deals bring discounts on Celestron and Gskyer By Jennifer Allen Close If you’re excited about space and Prime Day deals , we’ve spotted some amazing Prime Day telescope deals. If you’re wanting to visually explore more than just the planet we inhabit, these telescopes will help you take in much more of what’s going on in the universe. Read on while we pick out some of the highlights.
Celestron 70mm Travel Scope DX — $99, was $120 Gskyer Telescope 70mm Aperture — $100, was $130 Gskyer 80mm Telescope — $250, was $280 Celestron 70mm Travel Scope DX — $99, was $120 Image used with permission by copyright holder Celestron frequently features among the best telescopes thanks to some outstanding features. In the case of the Celestron 70mm Travel Scope DX, it does so without charging a fortune. You get a potent 70mm objective lens on a lightweight frame with a custom backpack to carry it all. Featuring high-quality and fully coated glass optics, the Celestron 70mm Travel Scope DX is great for astronomy beginners. It’s equipped with two high-quality eyepieces (20mm and 10mm) so you get low- and high-power views of celestial objects at night and terrestrial objects during the day. If you’ve been inspired by the gorgeous images from the James Webb telescope , this is a great starting point.
Buy Now Gskyer Telescope 70mm Aperture — $100, was $130 Image used with permission by copyright holder Intrigued by how fast the universe is expanding ? The Gskyer Telescope 70mm Aperture won’t answer all your questions, but it does offer a fascinating view into the universe. It has a 400mm (f/5.7) focal length and 70mm aperture with a fully coated optics glass lens that has high transmission coatings, which leads to some stunning images while also protecting your eyes. There are also two replaceable eyepieces and one 3x Barlow lens. You also get a smartphone adapter and a wireless camera remote so you can easily look at the world through the screen before taking stunning images.
Buy Now Gskyer 80mm Telescope — $250, was $280 Image used with permission by copyright holder Not quite the world’s most powerful solar telescope but pretty great for your backyard, the Gskyer 80mm Telescope is perfect if you’ve been fascinated by the Hubble Angel Wing.
 With a 400mm focal length and 80mm aperture, you can enjoy enhanced image brightness while also having your eyes protected via the optical glass coating. The Gskyer 80mm Telescope also has three replaceable eyepieces (16x, 40x and 80x) with a 4x Barlow lens so you gain optimum magnification. With an adjustable tripod, it’s easy to get the Gskyer 80mm Telescope just how you need it to be, with simple controls that even newbies and kids can figure out. It’s a great way of checking out the universe in a more clear fashion than ever before.
Buy now Editors' Recommendations 75 best Amazon Black Friday deals on laptops, TVs, Apple, and more PS5 Black Friday deals: consoles, games, and accessories Best GPU Black Friday deals: Save on top graphics cards now There’s a Black Friday deal on Dyson’s Zone purifying headphones Early Black Friday deal knocks 25% off this massive 98-inch 4K TV Space Amazon Amazon Prime Day Mobile Have you recently grabbed the new iPhone 15? If so, you need to slap a case on it as soon as possible. Smartphones are getting as expensive as your first car, and the phones are much more fragile. Thankfully iPhone 15 cases are fairly cheap. You can grab a serviceable, if not exciting, phone case for around $10. But if you want something with a bit more flair, you'll have to spend a bit more.
You've picked a good time to shop for iPhone 15 deals though. It's almost Thanksgiving, which means early Black Friday deals are starting to trickle in. Amazon has been releasing a lot of tantalizing deals in preparation for the shopping holiday, and that includes some great deals on iPhone 15 cases. We've pulled some of our favorite options out below, but it might be easier to shop the sale yourself by clicking the big red button.
Gaming If you’re looking for a way to cure the boredom around the house while everyone's home from school and work this holiday season, a good place to start is with Amazon's Black Friday sale. Black Friday deals have started popping up all over the place, but Amazon has a unique way to enjoy time with the family, as it's discounted thousands of board games for Black Friday. Many of the best board games are currently discounted, as well as hundreds of board games you may not have heard of. They range from super simple tic-tac-toe games to complex classics like Clue. All-told there are more than 5,000 board games you can grab at a Black Friday discount. And whether you're hosting holiday parties or trying to keep the kids entertained, each of them should make a great way to gather this holiday season.
Why you should shop Amazon's board game deals It's not a stretch to say that this Amazon board games sale is massive. It absolutely is, and there's something here discounted for everyone. If you like the greats like Monopoly, Battleship, or Clue, you'll find it. There are even alternate versions of Computing Is it time to upgrade the storage on your laptop or gaming PC? You should opt for an SSD. While there is nothing wrong with external hard drives or even internal HDDs, SSDs are smaller and faster than both those options. For instance, a 4TB SSD, which will likely double or triple the storage on your current laptop, is only about four inches in length and will disappear forever inside your computer.
Speaking of 4TB SSDs, Amazon is currently selling the Samsung 990 Pro 4TB SSD for only $280. That's after a 19% discount to its original price of $345. If the brand name and the size are enough to sell you, click the Buy Now button and grab this SSD for a significant discount. If you're not sure whether this is the right kind of storage for you, keep reading while we dive into the details of this Samsung SSD.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
