Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Space Features We can’t see dark matter, but there is an ingenious way to map it By Georgina Torbet Close “Gravitational lensing” shows the effects of dark matter, even if we can’t observe the matter itself.
NASA The single biggest question in physics today, and in arguably all of science, is seemingly a simple one: What is the universe made of? The answer to that only seems obvious until you learn that everything we see around us — every object, every speck of dust, every particle — makes up just 5% of all that exists. This ordinary matter is by far in the minority, and the rest of the universe is 27% dark matter and 68% dark energy.
Undergirding the structure of the universe Drawing a map of the unknown Inferring the invisible One step at a time Finding the elusive particles Pushing the boundaries of knowledge “Dark matter is most of all matter. It’s everywhere, and it’s lurking in the darkness,” cosmologist Alex Hall of the University of Edinburgh told Digital Trends. “It’s this very fundamental mysterious thing that’s just not understood.” We know that this dark universe must exist because of the movements of galaxies, but we can’t see it and can’t touch it. You might think that would make researching dark matter next to impossible, but in fact, we’re getting closer to understanding this hidden world than ever before.
See the incredible first images taken by the dark matter-hunting Euclid telescope Enormous sky survey creates the most accurate map yet of universe’s dark matter This unique supernova could change the way we study dark energy Undergirding the structure of the universe Dark matter isn’t just floating around filling up empty space. Importantly, it is found in clumps and structures, similar to ordinary matter. It forms the structure onto which ordinary matter gloms and is thought to be responsible for the structures of galaxies and the universe as a whole.
“We know that galaxies form in the scaffold that dark matter produces,” astronomer and early universe researcher Steve Wilkins of the University of Sussex explained. “It is an integral part of our universe to explain what we see.” “We don’t have a firm theoretical handle on what dark matter should be.” That’s because of dark matter’s gravitational effects, so a clump of dark matter will attract more dark matter to it — and it will attract ordinary matter as well. As stars require dense clouds of gas to form, they tend to form in regions with lots of dark matter.
So dark matter really drives the formation of stars, and therefore galaxies, both throughout the history of the universe and in terms of the new galaxies forming now. “The presence of dark matter really does shape today’s galaxies,” Wilkins said.
Drawing a map of the unknown As important as dark matter is, actually studying the topic is challenging because it doesn’t interact with matter or light the way that other particles do.
“We don’t really know quite what it is that we’re looking for,” Hall said. “So it’s hard to design the perfect experiment to do this because we don’t have a firm theoretical handle on what dark matter should be.” However, while we might not be able to directly detect dark matter, we can see where it is located due to its gravitational effects. So one of the primary methods for researching it right now is mapping out its location, with the aim of seeing how dark matter is distributed throughout the universe.
That’s the aim of the European Space Agency’s recently-launched Euclid mission, which Hall and Wilkins both work on. A space telescope built with extremely high levels of precision , it is currently on its way to the L2 orbit around the sun, from where it will be able to observe distant galaxies without having to deal with glare from the sun or distortions from Earth’s atmosphere. The goal is to create a 3D map of how dark matter is distributed across the universe.
European Space Agency Euclid will use two main methods to locate dark matter: gravitational lensing and galaxy clustering. Gravitational lensing, or weak lensing, is the same method used by telescopes like James Webb or Hubble to investigate extremely distant objects.
 It relies on the fact that a massive enough object will actually bend space-time, bending light coming from behind it and acting like a magnifying glass.
But while Webb or Hubble use this effect to look at the bent light coming from very distant background galaxies as a way of studying objects too distant to be observed otherwise, Euclid will use it in a different way. By seeing how much space-time is distorted by a foreground object like a galaxy, we can infer how much dark matter must be present in that foreground galaxy.
Inferring the invisible The problem is that even though there is a lot of dark matter in the universe, “the effects that it has on normal matter is quite subtle,” Hall said.
So the effects of gravitational lensing are very small, with a change of around 1% to the shape of the galaxy. To measure this effect in a meaningful way requires both a large number of galaxies to be imaged, and acquiring very precise images. That’s why Euclid is performing a very wide survey of the sky and why it needs to be in space to minimize distortions.
“Where there’s lots of dark matter, you tend to get more galaxies.” The other method used by Euclid to investigate dark matter, galaxy clustering, is a less direct measurement of dark matter but a stronger effect. By mapping out the locations of galaxies in three dimensions, you can infer where the dark matter will be located, roughly speaking. That’s because the regular matter in galaxies traces out the location of dark matter, “so where there’s lots of dark matter, you tend to get more galaxies,” Hall explained.
Once Euclid’s survey is complete and the data has been analyzed, in around ten to twelve years’ time, we should have a map of the universe’s dark matter and be able to see how that distribution has changed over time.
One step at a time Having a map of dark matter might be neat, but how does it help with understanding what dark matter actually is? For the next step in the investigation, we need supercomputers.
The main way that astronomers, who take observations, and theorists, who come up with possible explanations of dark matter, work together is through the use of models. Researchers can use computing power to run simulations of the universe, seeing how it might appear if different theories of dark matter were correct.
What does the universe look like if dark matter is heavy, or light? How about if the dark matter is hot, warm, or cool? Powerful supercomputers can calculate how these different factors would change the distribution of dark matter across the universe, then we can compare these simulations with the observations of the universe as we actually see it.
None of the models we’ve come up with so far have been the perfect fit, but the data we’re collecting now will allow us to rule in or out whole classes of theories of what dark matter could be.
Finding the elusive particles The other big and active avenue of dark matter research currently is searching for the particles that it could be composed of. Most researchers think that dark matter is probably a particle of some kind, though we don’t know what that particle could be.
Particle physics facilities like the Large Hadron Collider (LHC) are capable of smashing particles together to create short-lived exotic particles, any one of which could be candidates for dark matter.
CERN’s Large Hadron Collider CERN Although these experiments haven’t yet found a candidate particle for dark matter, they have ruled out classes of particles. And researchers at CERN, the group which runs the LHC, are particularly interested in an approach called supersymmetry, which is an extension of the standard model of particles where each standard particle has a partner of a different mass. If found, these particles could help create a grand unified theory of physics and to explain dark matter.
Finally, another way to try to understand dark matter is to look at its interactions. Dark matter doesn’t interact with ordinary matter but some researchers think it could interact with itself, so it might be possible to detect some kind of radiation created by this self-interaction. “They’ve not found anything, but their statistical precision and their understanding of these experiments and the limits that they can put on these things is improving all the time,” Hall said.
Pushing the boundaries of knowledge As daunting a task as it may be to chip away at the outskirts of a deeply mysterious phenomenon, researchers must approach it as best they can with the tools currently available to them — and do so with humility and cooperation.
“This is a big problem in physics, and it has to be tackled in small steps,” Hall said.
As gratifying as it would be to discover the dark matter particle tomorrow, in reality, the current research into dark matter is less like an Earth-shaking eureka moment and more comparable to brushing away dirt to reveal an artifact on an archeological dig. Teams of researchers work to eliminate one idea at a time, ruling out incorrect theories to get slowly closer to the truth.
We as humans want to know more about nature, about the universe, and about the world around us.” “That’s how science progresses,” Hall said. “You discard theories and eventually you narrow in on something that you believe is a truthful depiction of nature.” In the last decade, both technological improvements such as faster computing processors and new telescopes, as well as theoretical developments have driven dark matter researchers further than ever before, with researchers chipping away at a huge mystery.
As difficult as the problem of dark matter is, that’s part of what makes it so exciting for researchers. “I think we as humans want to know more about nature, about the universe, and about the world around us,” Hall said. “Having that understanding enriches all of our lives.” Editors' Recommendations See the stunning first images taken by the dark matter-hunting Euclid telescope NASA map shows where you can see a solar eclipse across the U.S.
Researchers come up with new method to ‘see’ dark matter Dark matter might be even stranger than we thought, according to Hubble SpaceX nails another launch and landing, but can’t catch the nose cone Features Space The mystery of dark matter has been a challenge for scientists, who know that the substance must exist in our universe but have been unable to find a way to identify it. As it does not give out any kind of electromagnetic radiation, dark matter can only be detected due to its gravitational effects. Now two astronomers from the University of New South Wales, Australia and the Instituto de Astrofísica de Canarias, Spain, have come up with a method to "see" dark matter by looking at the distribution of starlight in galaxy clusters.
The astronomers used data from the Hubble telescope to look at a faint source of light called intracluster light, which is caused by the interactions of galaxies. When two galaxies interact, stars can be ripped away from their home galaxy and float freely within the cluster, giving off faint light. It is known from mathematical models of clusters that the majority of the mass of the cluster is made up of dark matter, and these free-floating stars end up in the same location that the dark matter is believed to be found. "These stars have an identical distribution to the dark matter, as far as our current technology allows us to study," one of the researchers, Dr. Mireia Montes, explains.
Space NASA's Curiosity rover, which is currently exploring Mars' Gale Crater, recently marked an impressive milestone: 4,000 days on Mars. The rover landed more than a decade ago on August 5, 2012, and since then it has continued to explore the area, collect rock samples, and make its way up the epic slopes of Mount Sharp.
The 4,000 days are measured in mission time, which is calculated in martian days or sols. Due to the differing rates of rotation of Earth and Mars, a day on Mars is slightly longer than a day on Earth, by about 40 minutes. And also, due to the difference distances between Earth and Mars and the sun, a martian year is longer too - at 668 sols, equivalent to 687 Earth days. Those working on Mars rover missions, especially the rover drivers, have to operate on Mars time, so their schedules are out of sync with typical Earth working hours and they generally work on 90-sol shifts to allow them time to readjust to Earth schedules.
Space Astronomers recently discovered the most distant black hole ever observed in the X-ray wavelength, and it has some unusual properties that could help uncover the mysteries of how the largest black holes form.
Within the center of most galaxies lies a supermassive black hole, which is hundreds of thousands or even millions or billions of times the mass of our sun. These huge black holes are thought to be related to the way in which galaxies form, but this relationship isn't clear -- and how exactly supermassive black holes grow so massive is also an open question.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
