Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Space Features This team of legged robots could be the future of Mars exploration By Georgina Torbet Close ETH Zurich If you’d been a fly on the wall at the Rockhal concert hall in Luxembourg in September 2022, you’d have been greeted by a strange sight: no bands or cheering crowds in sight, but rather an area filled with 220 tons of lava and rock, with teams of robots crawling across the dusty floor in search of resources.
An idea with legs Exploring the unknown Working as a team Getting to space It was the second and final round of the European Space Agency (ESA)’s Space Resources Challenge, which invited research groups to bring their prototype robots and test out their abilities to prospect for resources in a simulated moon environment. The idea was to look for bright ideas for the next generation of robotic space explorers that could help locate and map lunar resources, such as water, which are essential for future crewed missions.
One of the winning teams of the challenge was a trio of legged robots that trotted, clambered, and poked their way around the arena, working together to map, identify, and collect scientific samples. Though this challenge was focused on the moon, the same principles could be applied to robots destined for Mars and other planetary bodies — and this approach could allow robots to explore new environments that have never been seen before.
The Curiosity rover reaches a milestone on Mars Mars flyover video shows a stunning network of valleys Perseverance rover’s Mars oxygen machine comes to the end of its mission We spoke to Hendrik Kolvenbach of the Robotic Systems Lab at ETH Zurich, the group that created the legged robots, to learn more.
An idea with legs The aspiring moon bots aren’t built from scratch; they start as commercially available robots from ANYbotics, which creates legged robots similar to those from Boston Dynamics. These models are mostly used for industrial inspections, but they could have potential for off-world exploration as well.
ANYbotics The Robotic Systems Lab has customized these robots’ hardware and software, including byadding a robotic arm for grabbing rocks off the martian surface and trying out different gait patterns to cope with changing terrain. About the size of a medium dog, the version of the robots used in the ESA challenge were able to carry a small payload of up to 33 pounds, but Kolvenbach said that newer systems are able to carry up to 110 pounds.
That’s enough for a legged robot to carry scientific instruments like cameras, spectrographs, or even a small drill. The robots are trained using reinforcement learning, so they learn to move around difficult environments using simulations. They can even learn to use three of their legs to stand while they use their fourth limb to prod and manipulate objects in their environment.
The eventual goal of such research is to create modular hardware systems. Instead of space explorers having to be built from scratch for every mission, future missions could take advantage of developing robotics technology here on Earth that uses a base configuration that can be adapted with different instruments and software as required.
Kolvenbach compared it to the idea of CubeSats , a standardized interface and form factor that allows incorporation of different payloads, making development for space cheaper and making hardware reusable.
Exploring the unknown Wheeled robots like the Curiosity and Perseverance rovers currently exploring Mars are great for some things. They travel relatively fast across wide open terrain, and they are able to handle going around, or over, surprisingly large rocks and other obstacles. Even when their wheels inevitably sustain damage from years of schlepping across the martian surface, as happened to Curiosity , they can still keep going as long as the drivers are careful.
So why would legged robots be necessary? It all depends on the environments that missions want to explore. Both Mars and the moon have surfaces covered in dusty material called regolith, for example, which rovers are designed to traverse.
But both locations also have intriguing underground regions such as lava tubes, which are cave-like structures beneath the surface created by the long-ago passage of hot lava.
ETH Zurich These lava tubes are of great scientific interest , and there’s also a practical interest in using them as shelter for future crewed missions as astronauts could set up underground bases in them and be protected from dangerous radiation on the surface. But no one knows exactly what these environments are like, so any robot hoping to explore them would have to be versatile and able to handle unexpected challenges.
Legged robots are ideal for this kind of environment. They’re also well suited to dealing with steep slopes, like those found in craters. That’s handy for areas like the south pole of the moon, a current hotspot of exploration activity that hosts craters that are permanently shadowed, and which could host vital water ice resources.
Slopes can be tricky. “With wheeled robots, we always have a traction issue,” Kolvenbach explained. “The regolith is dry, granular material and you have a lot of cases where rovers get stuck.” Legged robots are “generally more mobile, but it comes at a cost.” For flat areas without big challenges, wheeled robots are more efficient and there’s no need for more complex legged robots. For getting a broad overview of a large region, there’s the option of surveying from the air, as demonstrated by the Mars Ingenuity helicopter. But when it comes to unpredictable and unstructured terrain, legged robots are “very agile and robust,” Kolvenbach said. “This is where the unique value of these robots lie.” Working as a team Another way to approach the challenges of robotic exploration is to consider the possibilities of teamwork. With each legged robot being much smaller than a current Mars rover, several of them would be needed to carry the same payload as a single wheeled robot. But that can be an advantage, as the robots can work individually and as a team.
For the ESA challenge, the lab used a team of three legged robots, though a team could theoretically be larger or smaller as required by a mission. By changing how the different payloads are distributed among team members, you can create robot specialists. For example, one robot could carry tools for quickly mapping a large area, while another carries scientific instruments for investigating particular points of interest in detail.
The trend now goes to these more challenging environments, because there you can do very interesting science.
This also brings the benefits of redundancy, as the most vital functions can be shared across team members. So if one robot fails for any reason, the others can still keep operating and take over the majority of the failed robot’s tasks.
As for how a team of robots could communicate with each other, there are several approaches being considered in the robotics community. One is to have a central base that would coordinate the actions of each robot. That would be ideal for exploring large, open areas, as robots could be sent off in different directions to perform tasks like collecting samples, which could then be brought back to the base for analysis. Larger and heavier instruments could remain in the central base unit, with robots acting as couriers.
Another approach is to use communication nodes, with robots acting as relays for sending commands. That would be ideal for exploring underground regions where communications might be limited. Robots could drop a breadcrumb-like trail of sensors to relay commands, allowing them to communicate even in unknown environments.
The real benefit of this approach is flexibility. What payloads each robot carries, how many robots are part of a team, and how that team is structured is all adjustable based on the needs of a particular mission or environment.
Getting to space The legged robots the researchers have been working with are commercial hardware, so while they show the promise of the technology for space exploration, they’re a long way from being space-worthy. Putting hardware on a space mission has stringent requirements, from the ability to withstand a wide range of temperatures, to handling the vibrations and shocks of launch, to a need for extremely high reliability, as there are no repair shops outside Earth.
So in preparation, the team is working on a spaceflight-ready legged robot called Space Hopper.
 “It’s a relatively small-scale robot,” Kolvenbach said. It weighs less than 22 pounds, and it uses off-the-shelf spaceflight hardware. It was a pragmatic first step because “the transfer from a research prototype to an actual space probe is a lot of engineering work. So we decided to make something small scale.” They are hoping that Hopper will be ready to fly as a technology demonstration within the next few years, just in time for the ramping up of space agency and commercial missions to the moon. Hopefully, it will open the door for further development of larger and more complex legged robots for exploring new environments.
Kolvenbach describes the future use of legged robots as a “no brainer.” There are many cases where a wheeled robot still makes sense for planetary exploration, but when it comes to exploring more challenging and scientifically interesting environments, he sees legged robots as the future.
“There’s a clear need for this,” he said. “We’ve done a lot of missions in the past to relatively flat, easy environments on other celestial bodies. But the trend now goes to these more challenging environments, because there you can do very interesting science. From the scientific community, there’s clearly a requirement to go there. And legged robots are one of the emerging technologies that can bring us there to do that science.” Editors' Recommendations NASA stops speaking to its Mars robots, but they haven’t fallen out Map of Mars shows the location of ice beneath the planet’s surface Perseverance rover catches footage of a dust devil on Mars Mars is spinning faster every year and no one knows exactly why Curiosity rover battles up a 23-degree slope in its exploration of Mars Features Space One of the biggest aims of Mars research right now is trying to figure out if life ever existed on Mars. Given how dry and inhospitable Mars is today, scientists are pretty certain that there's nothing living there currently. But millions of years ago, Mars could have looked a lot more like Earth, with plentiful surface water in rivers and lakes. Now, research focuses on using the instruments on rovers like the Perseverance and Curiosity rovers to try and look for evidence of ancient life on the planet.
Recently, researchers used data from Perseverance's SHERLOC instrument, a camera and spectrometer used to detect minerals and organic molecules, to confirm the discovery of a variety of organic molecules in Mars' Jezero Crater. Similar findings have been made by the Curiosity Rover in the Gale Crater, but these are some of the first indications of the finding in this other location.
Space The planets in our solar system experience seasons because of the way that they are tilted in their orbits, so one hemisphere is facing the sun more often at some times of year than others. However, there's another factor which also affects weather and conditions on some planets, which is their position in their orbit around the sun. Earth has a relatively circular orbit, so the differences caused by it being slightly closer or further from the sun at different points are minimal. But Mars's orbit is much more eccentric or oval-shaped than Earth's, meaning conditions differ based on when the planet is closer to the sun.
That effect is illustrated in two images of Mars recently released by NASA, which show the planet at its closest and furthest point from the sun. Taken by a Mars orbiter called MAVEN, or Mars Atmosphere and Volatile EvolutioN, the images were taken six months apart in July 2022 and January 2023 respectively, showing how the environment of the planet changes with both season and the planet's orbit.
Space Today, you can enjoy a stunning new view of Mars, thanks to a postcard from the Gale Crater taken by the Curiosity rover. The image combines two different views of the same area and is colorized to show off the undulating martian landscape in a region called the Marker Band Valley.
The image, shared by NASA's Jet Propulsion Laboratory (JPL), shows the back of the rover and views of the tire tracks it has left across the martian surface as it has driven. The view on the left side of the image was taken in the morning of April 8, at 9:20 a.m. local Mars time, while the image on the right side was taken on the same day but in the evening, at 3:40 p.m. local Mars time. The two images have been blended together to show how the landscape looks different throughout the day.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
