Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Space Features How one NASA lander decoded secrets lying beneath the surface of Mars By Georgina Torbet Close Dust blankets the solar panels of the Mars Insight lander, shortly before its demise.
NASA The life of the Mars InSight lander came to an end last year as its solar panels were covered with dust and its power supply slowly dwindled away. After four years of research and data collection, NASA officially declared the end of the mission in December 2022.
Why study the interior of Mars? Shaken by quakes How to measure a marsquake Understanding seismic waves Peering into the interior Looking to the future Insight leaves an incredible legacy though, having provided the best-ever look at the interior of Mars and being the first time a seismometer has been used on another planet. To learn about how a single little lander was able to look through an entire planet, we spoke to two leading scientists on the InSight team, Catherine Johnson of the University of British Columbia and Mark Panning of NASA’s Jet Propulsion Laboratory.
Why study the interior of Mars? Learning about the interior of a planet like Mars isn’t just an abstract curiosity. Indeed, to understand topics from a planet’s atmosphere to its history, we need to understand its interior. “If you want to understand how Mars has evolved — Why did it have a different atmosphere in the past from today? Why did it have different amounts of volcanism in the past from more geologically recently? — you have to understand the interior structure,” Johnson said.
See how NASA’s cosmos-mapping SPHEREx spacecraft is starting to take shape Map of Mars shows the location of ice beneath the planet’s surface NASA’s wild plan to launch a rocket from Mars is ‘like something from an amusement park’ “Each mission results in a big leapfrog forward in our understanding.” But it’s hard enough to analyze samples from Mars’s surface using rovers — how can you possibly tell what the interior of a planet located hundreds of millions of miles away is like? Fortunately, we have an idea of how to do this because we have practice from studying Earth. We learn about Earth’s interior structure by looking at how seismic waves travel through the planet, and we can do the same thing on Mars.
That was the justification for including a seismometer instrument on the InSight lander, which was the first seismometer ever landed on another planet. And its results have been, if you’ll excuse the pun, out of this world.
Shaken by quakes The Earth has tectonic plates that shift and move over millions of years, causing earthquakes when they rub together. Mars doesn’t have plate tectonics today, but it is shaken by similar quakes called marsquakes. That means the right instrument can study those quakes and the way they bounce around the planet’s interior to learn more about its structure.
Image used with permission by copyright holder To detect tiny shakes from the surface, you don’t want a rover that moves around. Instead, you want something that stays in exactly the same place for months or years, which is why InSight is a stationary lander. It’s also located in a very quiet region.
When it comes to choosing a landing spot for seismic measurements, “You basically want somewhere that’s as boring as possible,” Johnson said. “and as quiet as possible, because you’re making these incredibly sensitive measurements.” To allow for environmental differences day to day, InSight also measures factors like temperature, pressure, and wind speed using weather sensors, so these factors can be subtracted from the seismic data. As a bonus, this means InSight is also a tiny little Martian weather station, and has provided years of data on the weather in the Elysium Planitia region where it is located.
How to measure a marsquake Seismometers are a fairly basic piece of equipment, and given how much experience we have using them on Earth, adjusting them for Mars is conceptually simple. The designers needed to adjust for the different level of gravity, and the instrument needed to be extremely sensitive to pick up small shakes. But that was the easy part.
The hard part was how to get by using only one of them. When you were at school, you might have learned that measuring an earthquake requires three stations so you can triangulate its origin. But there was only going to be one lander on Mars, and it was going to have to collect all the required data, all on its own.
NASA “There are ways to locate earthquakes with a single station,” Panning said, but it isn’t typically done this way. So figuring out how effective this approach would be on Mars was a big part of getting the mission accepted. “We spent a lot of time talking about how well we could locate events with just a single station.” It wasn’t easy to convince people that InSight would be able to detect useful information all on its own, especially considering that a seismometer had never been placed on another planet. But in its time since landing on Mars in 2018, it was able to record hundreds of seismic events. “History has borne us out,” on that front, Panning said. “We’ve been able to locate a lot of quakes.” Understanding seismic waves To understand how InSight works, you need to understand seismic waves. There are two types of seismic waves, called P and S. As waves pass through the planet, they can move in different ways: With P waves, the material moves backward and forward in the same direction that the wave is moving. With S waves, the material moves side to side compared to the direction of the wave.
Think about a slinky. You can push waves along the length of the slinky, which would be equivalent to a P wave, or you can wobble the slinky from side to side, which would be the equivalent of an S wave.
Once you can locate the source of a quake, you can use this information to learn about the planet’s interior.
InSight could detect both of these types of waves and use them to detect the source of a marsquake. To find out how far away a quake originated, you can look at the time at which the seismic waves arrived at the lander, as the two types of waves travel at different speeds. The separation in time between the arrival of the P waves and the S waves gives you the distance.
Working out the location of the source is a bit more complicated. The process uses a property called the polarization of the seismic waves, which refers to the direction of motion within the wave. “So if a P wave is coming in from the east, for example, its particle motions are going to be moving in the east-west direction. They’re not going to be going north-south,” Panning explained.
You can use that polarization to work out the direction which a wave is coming from. “So if we know how far away the quake is from the timing of the P and S, and we know which direction it came in from the polarization of the waves, that gives you a location,” Panning said.
Peering into the interior Once you can locate the source of a quake, you can use this information to learn about the planet’s interior. We know that the interior structure of Mars is made up of layers, consisting of a molten core, a mantle, and a crust. But before InSight, we didn’t have a good understanding of how thick each layer was.
As abstract as it may sound, understanding the deep interior of the planet is vital for understanding all sorts of issues from the planet’s history to its state today. “How the planet has cooled and what has happened to it, could it have had a magnetic field in the past, could it have one today – those kinds of questions are critically dependent on the deep interior,” Johnson said.
So InSight took data from marsquakes to measure the depth of the layers. As each layer has different material properties, each one interacts with seismic waves in different waves. And this is what allows researchers to work out the thickness and properties of each layer.
NASA To study the crust, you use a technique called receiver functions. When a P wave hits a boundary, like the edge of the crust, some of it will convert to an S wave. Then you can see this converted S wave energy arriving a little later than the P wave, and that can tell you how thick the crust is.
To study the core, which is molten, you look for the energy that bounces off the boundary between the core and the mantle. A big quake can cause an S wave which hits this boundary, reflects off, and bounces back to the receiver. You can look for incoming waves that have the right polarization to be identifiable as this particular type of wave — called an ScS wave — and this lets you work out the radius of the core.
To study the mantle, researchers wanted to know how quickly waves pass through this layer which lets them know about the mantle’s temperature. For this, you look for waves that have bounced off the planet’s surface, called PP waves. You can see these reflections arrive at your receiver later than the original P waves, which tells you how fast the waves are traveling.
Looking to the future This is how InSight was able to gather the most accurate information yet on the Martian interior, finding different sub-layers within the crust and pinpointing the size of the core.
 This is a big step in understanding the planet and was achieved within just a few years of InSight operations. This is the legacy that InSight will leave for Mars science.
“Each mission results in a big leapfrog forward in our understanding — in this case, it’s a big leap in our understanding of the interior of Mars and the surface environment of the lander,” Johnson said.
NASA The greater understanding of the interior of Mars that InSight has provided will support future missions, from the planned Mars Sample Return mission to long-term plans for astronauts to eventually visit the red planet in person. And results from the lander are still being used to make discoveries, such as a recent finding that Mars is spinning faster each year.
So even though the InSight mission has come to a close, Johnson and her team are optimistic about what the mission has achieved and what the future holds for Mars science.
“Any mission is this incredible journey,” Johnson said. “It’s always a sad moment when something comes to an end. But you also spend a lot of time thinking about how the mission has enabled the next step of investigations.” Editors' Recommendations NASA stops speaking to its Mars robots, but they haven’t fallen out NASA’s Mars helicopter just did something it’s never done before NASA’s moon buggies could one day be driving on lunar roads NASA’s Mars drone just set another flight record How to watch NASA reveal the Bennu asteroid sample Features Space Just a week after setting a new altitude record on Mars, NASA’s impressive Ingenuity helicopter has flown faster than ever before, reaching a speed of 17.9 mph (8 meters per second) during its 60th flight. Its previous record was 15 mph (6.5 m/s) in a flight earlier this year.
Ingenuity also covered 1,116 feet (340 meters) in 133 seconds at an altitude of 53 feet (16 meters) during its speediest flight across the Martian surface.
Space A composite image, annotated at JPL using visualization software, showing Perseverance’s path through a dense section of boulders. The pale blue line indicates the course of the center of the front wheel hubs, while darker blue lines show the paths of the rover’s six wheels. NASA/JPL-Caltech NASA’s Mars rover, Perseverance, has used its self-driving smarts to successfully navigate its most challenging route since arriving on the planet two-and-a-half years ago. Even better, its advanced technology meant it took just a third of the time that it would’ve taken other NASA Mars rovers.
Space NASA’s Mars helicopter, Ingenuity, has set a new flight record on the red planet.
On its 59th flight just a few days ago, the drone-like machine reached an altitude of 20 meters, beating its previous record, set in December last year, by 6 meters.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
