Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Space Features Measure twice, laser once. Meet the scientists prodding NASA’s first asteroid sample By Georgina Torbet Close A view of the outside of the OSIRIS-REx sample collector. Sample material from asteroid Bennu can be seen on the middle right of the container. Scientists have found evidence of both carbon and water in initial analysis of this material. The bulk of the sample is located inside.
NASA/Erika Blumenfeld & Joseph Aebersold NASA today revealed its first sample collected from an asteroid. The OSIRIS-REx mission traveled 1.2 billion miles to visit asteroid Bennu and scoop up a sample, and last month that sample was dropped through Earth’s atmosphere before landing in the Utah desert.
Tip of the iceberg What lies inside Waste not, want not The sample was carefully sealed in a capsule to protect it on its journey, and that capsule was taken to NASA’s Johnson Space Center in Houston, where it was carefully opened for the first time. While the capsule was being opened, however, a small group of scientists were already racing to get early results on the asteroid material.
One of these scientists, Pierre Haenecour of the University of Arizona, told us about what it took to do a super fast analysis of NASA’s first asteroid sample. “It’s very exciting to have the chance to be among the first to look at the sample and get data,” he said.
NASA’s Lucy spacecraft will soon make its first flyby of an asteroid Watch NASA’s capsule with asteroid samples hurtling to Earth Here’s the first image of OSIRIS-REx as it approaches Earth with asteroid sample Tip of the iceberg The “quick-look team” was a group of experts who were tasked with doing a first analysis of dust that had collected on the outside of the canister — and doing it within just a few days. Their big headline finding is that the sample contains evidence of both water and carbon-rich material, supporting the theory that the building blocks of life were originally brought to Earth by asteroids like Bennu.
This mosaic of Bennu was created using observations made by NASA’s OSIRIS-REx spacecraft that was in close proximity to the asteroid for over two years.
NASA/Goddard/University of Arizona The team went to Houston to study the sample in NASA’s new facility there, and they worked on material that was on the outside of the sample collector, called the TAGSAM or Touch-and-Go Sample Acquisition Mechanism. There was just a small amount of black dust on the outer part of the canister, but it was enough to do a preliminary analysis.
Getting a millimeter-sized particle — we could work for years on it.
“The curator at the Johnson Space Center basically wiped a little bit of that material, put it in a vial, and put it aside for us. And that’s what we analyzed,” Haenecour said.
That means that the particles examined by the quick-look team might be different from those from within the sample. “There is a very good chance there will be differences” between the two, Haenecour said. “We have to remember that we are looking at very, very small particles — we’re looking at millimeter- to hundreds-of-micron-sized particles. So we don’t necessarily have a representative sample of what’s inside.” What lies inside The sample inside the canister is likely to contain a greater diversity of particles, with all sorts of different size particles with different compositions included. That would be ideal from a scientific standpoint, as it would reflect the diversity of materials seen on the surface of Bennu — including exciting findings like large carbonate rocks.
“The more material you have, and the more diversity, the more context you can get,” Haenecour said. It would be great to find larger pieces like centimeter-sized chunks of carbonates, as the asteroid is thought to host a wide variety of organic compounds and water-bearing minerals like clays. One of the exciting questions for the first peek into the sample is, “Can we see those micro-scale variations that we see on the surface of Bennu?” NASA personnel carry a container holding the sample gathered from the Bennu asteroid.
NASA The reason that scientists are so excited to get their hands on a piece of Bennu is that it can help answer questions as big as how life evolved on Earth. The building blocks of life, called organic molecules, are thought to have been originally brought to Earth by asteroids like Bennu. Finding evidence of these organics in the asteroid sample helps researchers piece together this journey, which occurred billions of years ago.
Waste not, want not The long-term analysis of the sample will keep researchers busy for years, but in the meantime, Haenecour and his colleagues had just days to perform a first analysis of the sample, using techniques like electron microscopy and mass spectrometry. They began by taking detailed images of the particles before moving on to investigating its chemistry. The idea was “getting a general lay of the land of what the sample looks like and what it’s composed of,” Haenecour explained.
To do that, the group ran the tiny, precious sample through a battery of tests, starting with the least destructive techniques like taking photographs, and progressing to more destructive techniques that could tell them more about the composition but that would degrade or destroy the sample they had.
It’s possible to gain a huge amount of understanding from a very small amount of material thanks to the sophisticated analysis methods that are available now. “For us, getting a millimeter-sized particle — we could work for years on it,” Haenecour said. “A lot of the measurements we do are at the nanoscale level.” It’s providing us with insight into how life might have started on Earth.
There’s laser ablation, for example, which involves blasting off a few microns of material with a laser — it removes only a few nanograms of sample, but it’s still slightly destructive, so it isn’t performed first. Other destructive techniques include step heating, where the sample is heated more and more to release noble gases, or techniques to look for soluble organics using mass spectrometry, which involve crushing and dissolving the sample.
“The idea is always to use as little mass as possible,” Haenecour said.
With information from this asteroid sample, scientists hope to be able to trace back the origin of organics not only to asteroids in the early solar system, but perhaps even further, to where those compounds originated from.
“If we know that life started from asteroids or comets, where did those organics come from? Did they form in the solar system? Did they form in the interstellar medium, even before the solar system?” Haenecour said. These compounds could even have formed among stardust grains, originating within a stellar environment while the material that would eventually form planets swirled around as a circumstellar disk.
“It’s providing us with insight into how life might have started on Earth,” Haenecour said.
Editors' Recommendations NASA’s first asteroid-sampling mission continues on to a new target How to watch NASA reveal the Bennu asteroid sample OSIRIS-REx mission returns asteroid sample to Earth in NASA first How to watch final moments of NASA’s first asteroid sample return mission Is that asteroid a problem? Meet the planetary defense squad that decides Features Tech for Change The Food Fight Space OSIRIS-REx Sample Return Trailer It has been seven years since NASA launched the OSIRIS-REx mission from Cape Canaveral in Florida, and in just a few weeks’ time, all the hard work will culminate in a special delivery to Earth in the form of samples from asteroid Bennu collected by NASA's spacecraft in 2020.
Space NASA's OSIRIS-REx spacecraft scooped up a sample from asteroid Bennu in October 2020, and in May 2021 the spacecraft headed back to Earth to drop that sample off. This week. the spacecraft performed a trajectory correction maneuver to keep it headed toward Earth, where it is scheduled to arrive in September 2023.
OSIRIS-REx Delivers Asteroid Bennu Samples to Earth Space It's official -- we're smarter than the dinosaurs.
NASA has successfully slammed a spacecraft into an asteroid in a historic mission that could one day save Earth from hazardous space rocks spotted coming our way.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
