Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending in Computing: Best Dell Laptops ChatGPT Best Monitors Asus ROG Azoth Review How to delete a page in Word in 3 easy steps RTX 4080 vs RTX 4070 Ti Best Mac Apps AMD vs Intel Recall an Email in Outlook Home Computing News Meta just created a Snoop Dogg AI for your text RPGs By Alan Truly Close Meta Connect started with the Quest 3 announcement but that’s not the only big news. The metaverse company is also a leader in AI and has released several valuable models to the open-source community. Today, Meta announced its generative AI is coming soon to its social media apps, and it looks both fun and useful.
Meta AI for text Meta Emu for images Meta AI for text When CEO Mark Zuckerberg announced Meta AI for social media, it seemed interesting. When one of the custom AIs looked like Snoop Dogg wearing Dungeons and Dragons gear, there was a gasp from the live audience, followed by whoops of joy and applause.
Meta AI’s Dungeon Master looks like Snoop Dogg.
Meta The Snoop Dogg avatar looks realistic and acts as the Dungeon Master, spinning a story in response to your chats. Zuckerberg demoed the interaction at the event, starting with the Dungeon Master saying, “Let’s get medieval, player.” Zuck’s RPG crew is confronted with “an ancient guardian armed with a rusted axe,” and he cheerfully responds with a prompt to “summon my steed.” The AI describes a loyal, galloping horse, adding the detail that its hooves echoed off stone walls, while the ancient guardian, wary of the horse, spoke instead of attacking.
Meta is reportedly working on a GPT-4 rival, and it could have dire consequences Microsoft says bizarre travel article was not created by ‘unsupervised AI’ Hackers are using AI to create vicious malware, says FBI It’s the sort of ChatGPT text responses with seeming creativity we’ve seen before, but it’s coming to Meta apps like Facebook , Messenger, Instagram, and WhatsApp.
Meta chose MrBeast as its AI-generated funny man.
Meta Meta announced a host of other AIs based on celebrities like NFL star Tom Brady, media personality Paris Hilton, and YouTuber Mr. Beast. Each specializes in a particular area and can help with chats about sports, recipes, crafting, and more. AI Studio, coming later, will let anyone make their own AI, with custom avatars and knowledge.
Meta AI has access to real-time information via Microsoft Bing , so it can inform you about current events. It should be quite helpful and entertaining.
AI is also coming to VR over time, so AI-powered avatars will appear in Horizon Worlds to interact with people wearing the new Quest 3, Quest 2, and Quest Pro VR headsets.
Meta AI will appear as 3D avatars in Horizon Worlds for Quest users.
Meta The new Ray-Ban Meta smart glasses are also getting access to Meta AI, so you can chat with the glasses and get help. Visual search is coming next year and uses built-in cameras to see where you’re looking and answer questions about your location or the object in view.
Meta Emu for images Meta’s AI for generative images, Emu (expressive media universe), is coming to social media also. In the coming months, you’ll be able to use Emu in Facebook, Messenger, Instagram, and WhatsApp by calling on Meta AI in any chat.
Meta AI can generate images within a chat in about five seconds.
Meta The format will look familiar to anyone who’s used Midjourney to create AI images.
 Just type “@Meta AI /image” then enter a prompt. Within seconds, Emu will respond with a nice rendering of what you asked for.
Meta’s demonstration of Emu imagery was impressive, particularly with the remarkable generation speed. Zuckerberg said most images take just five seconds. That’s incredible considering other AI generators spend a minute and sometimes much longer before showing any results.
Editors' Recommendations New ‘poisoning’ tool spells trouble for AI text-to-image tech Meta is building a space-age ‘universal language translator’ Google Bard could soon become your new AI life coach What is MusicLM? Check out Google’s text-to-music AI This new Photoshop tool could bring AI magic to your images Artificial Intelligence Instagram Tech News Computing Meta chief Mark Zuckerberg said that recent advances in artificial technology present an “opportunity to introduce AI agents to billions of people in ways that will be useful and meaningful.” The Zuck made the remarks during a call with investors on Wednesday following Meta’s release of company data for the first quarter.
Computing AI image generators are becoming a hot topic online, but they are far from new. The technology for these tools has been around for some time. It is just reaching a point where they are more accessible to the everyday user.
Some of these text-to-art generators are free, while some are behind paywalls, and others allow for a trial. There are also many styles of art you can create from different generators. Take a look at our roundup of some of the best AI image generators below to see which ones might match your artistic style.
What is an AI image generator? An AI image generator is essentially a tool that uses machine learning to create art. In its simplest form, it will use text prompts to describe the type of art you want to create, and then it'll do its best job to make it for you. Some tools include additional styles and parameters to their generators to make the results more unique.
Computing Grammarly, one of the biggest names in writing tools, is adding AI-generated text to its repertoire on the heels of the wild popularity of ChatGPT. Known as GrammarlyGO, this new tool is focused on improving writing rather than replacing the writer.
GrammarlyGO will roll out in beta form to existing users in April. All tiers, including developers, business, education, and premium users, will have access. You can even use GrammarlyGO with a free account.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
