Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: ChatGPT Alternatives ChatGPT on Slack ChatGPT on Mac ChatGPT Plus ChatGPT Detection ChatGPT 4 Bing Chat Google Bard Google Bard vs ChatGPT The best AI chatbots to try out: ChatGPT, Bard, and more ChatGPT vs Bing Chat Home Computing Guides Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Microsoft Copilot vs. Google Duet: battle of the next-gen AI smart assistants By Jon Martindale Close Microsoft Copilot and Google Duet are the two most prominent artificial intelligence assistants put out by the various tech giants since OpenAI debuted its ChatGPT chatbot in 2022. They’re set to bring that powerful natural language assistance into the enterprise in ways that can enhance productivity, improve the digital fluency of workers, and leverage existing data in new and exciting ways.
Availability and pricing Which apps do they work with? What can they do? Duet vs. Copilot, which is best? But which one is best? Both offer comparable features at a comparable cost, but they aren’t interchangeable and even getting access to either tool requires a bit of luck. Here’s how these two awesome AI tools compare.
Using Google Duet to enhance your coding efforts can be a great way to speed up programming.
Google / Google Availability and pricing At the time of writing, both Google Duet and Microsoft Copilot are considered preview features at their respective organizations. That means that in order to use them, you need to sign up. In the case of Microsoft, you’ll need to be a business Microsoft 365 subscriber and be part of the Windows Insider program.
 You’ll need to be part of the Dev channel and have the latest release for Windows 11.
Then you can wait to see if Microsoft sends you the version of Windows 11 with Copilot, or you can take some steps to download it yourself via Github.
Microsoft’s Copilot AI will have an ‘energy,’ apparently Google Bard could soon become your new AI life coach Google Bard vs. ChatGPT: which is the better AI chatbot? Google Duet requires similar hoop jumping to try the tool out. You’ll need to be signed up to Google Cloud, and then submit a request to preview Google Duet via the application page.
Both Google and Microsoft have priced their respective AI assistants at $30 per user, per month. You’ll get $300 of free Google Cloud credits when signing up, but it’s not entirely clear how long that will last you. However, in Microsoft’s case, that’s on top of an enterprise or business license for Microsoft 365, which in itself can be tens of dollars per user.
Which apps do they work with? Microsoft and Google’s AI assistants are currently entirely proprietary, in that they only work with their own applications. Microsoft’s Copilot embeds itself in Windows 11 and can help make adjustments to the operating system, answer questions about its operation, or help you learn new features. It is also embedded with Microsoft 365 and Microsoft’s suite of Office tools. That includes Word, Excel, PowerPoint, Outlook, and Teams.
Google Duet works with Google Sheets, Docs, Slides, Gmail, and Meet. There’s no official Duet for Chrome yet, and no word on whether we’ll see an equivalent Google Duet feature in Chrome OS — although that would be a big selling point for some of the best Chromebooks.
Microsoft / Microsoft What can they do? Each of the AI assistants is designed to augment its various apps and services with AI. In the case of text editors like Word and Docs, Duet and Copilot can be used to generate text, proofread and edit existing documents, make suggestions about grammar and word use, or suggest changes to the document structure. In Sheets and Excel, the AIs can look for trends in the data, or extract information from it that may not be immediately obvious, as well as finish incomplete cells or correct errors. They can also reformat or change the data and how it’s visualized to make it easier to get useful information from it.
In Gmail and Outlook, the AIs can help you write emails, or check them over to make sure they’re written well or cover the information that you wish to impart. Microsoft Copilot can also pull in information from other documents you store in the cloud, making it incredibly versatile. In Slides and PowerPoint, the AIs can create slides for your presentations, or you can convert between apps — turn a PowerPoint presentation into a Word Doc, or have a Google Sheet display its information in a Slides presentation that makes it easier to digest.
Outside of basic app integration, Google Duet also offers code-writing assistance. That helps programmers start writing code based on a text prompt input, or it can analyze your existing code to finish it or make suggested changes to improve efficiency. It can provide those recommendations in real-time, too, making it a little like an auto-complete for coding. It can also look for vulnerabilities in your code, and suggest fixes. It currently supports Bash, C, C++, C#, Go, Java, Javascript, Python, and SQL, among many others.
This can also be used to develop entirely new apps to use in Google’s AppSheet platform. Just give a text prompt input for the kind of app you want, and Duet can help make it for you. You can also have Duet create custom templates for Sheets and other services, making it really useful for organizing complicated data.
Duet also offers chat assistance, so you can talk to it in natural language, ask questions, and request guidance on how to use Google applications, including Google Cloud. You can use it in Google Meet, too, although at the time of writing, there aren’t many integrated features. You can have it generate backgrounds for video calls based on prompts, but that’s about it for now.
In comparison, Microsoft Copilot can do many of the same things, but does a slightly better job of integrating data from various applications. So you can have it write an email for you that leverages data from your Excel spreadsheets, or make sure that your emails are all written in the same style as you previously used.
It’s the Teams integration that really stands out for Copilot, though. Using natural language prompts you can have it schedule meetings for you, create meeting agendas, launch tasks for various team members, and draft emails to clients based on what was discussed in a Teams chat. The Copilot can create summaries of meetings and draw data from outside documents — whether it’s from a spreadsheet or old email — all in real time.
Copilot can also be used to make changes to Windows 11 or help you learn about how to utilize some of its features.
Duet vs. Copilot, which is best? Both Microsoft Copilot and Google Duet are powerful natural language artificial intelligence that can help boost productivity in a range of proprietary applications. Neither are easy to get access to, and for larger organizations, giving lots of employees access could get very expensive. Their potential is huge, though, so when it comes down to picking which one you should use, it’s important to get it right.
The best smart AI assistant is likely to be the one that augments the tools you use. If you’re a regular user of Google’s services and apps, then Duet is likely better for you. If you use Teams and Microsoft Office applications, Copilot is by far the better choice.
If we had to pick a true winner though that offers a better service, Microsoft Copilot currently has the edge. It’s better at pulling data from different apps to augment the one you’re using, and the way it enhances Teams goes well beyond what Duet can do. For now.
Editors' Recommendations Apple may finally beef up Siri with AI smarts next year Google’s answer to Microsoft Copilot is finally here Google’s ChatGPT rival just launched in search. Here’s how to try it You can now try out Google’s Bard, the rival to ChatGPT Edge Copilot finally delivers on Microsoft’s Bing Chat promises Artificial Intelligence Microsoft Computing ChatGPT has been inescapable in recent months, and it looks like Microsoft is about to upgrade the AI tool with an update that could thrust it into the spotlight once again. That’s because the company is set to launch GPT-4 as early as next week, and it will potentially let you create AI-generated videos from simple text prompts.
The news was revealed by Andreas Braun, Chief Technology Officer at Microsoft Germany, at a recent event titled “AI in Focus -- Digital Kickoff” (via Heise). According to Braun, “We will introduce GPT-4 next week … we will have multimodal models that will offer completely different possibilities -- for example videos.” Computing Google missed a golden opportunity to lead the way with its own ChatGPT-like chatbot technology tool two years ago, but an overly cautious attitude from those at the top prevented the company from releasing it, according to a Wall Street Journal report on Tuesday.
The two Google researchers who created the powerful conversational AI technology reportedly told colleagues at the time that their creation could revolutionize how people searched on the internet and worked with computers.
Computing These are heady days if you’re following the world of artificial intelligence (AI). ChatGPT is taking over the world, Microsoft is adding its tech to Bing, and Google is working on its own AI called Bard.
Except, Bard might not quite be ready for prime time -- and Google just proved it during its own tech demonstration. Oops.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
