Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending in Computing: Best Dell Laptops ChatGPT Best Monitors Asus ROG Azoth Review How to delete a page in Word in 3 easy steps RTX 4080 vs RTX 4070 Ti Best Mac Apps AMD vs Intel Recall an Email in Outlook Home Computing News Microsoft’s Copilot AI will have an ‘energy,’ apparently By Alex Blake Close Microsoft has just unveiled the latest version of Windows 11 , and it features updates across the operating system, from AI to new tools and features.
Windows 11 and Microsoft 365 Getting creative Among the updates are changes to Microsoft’s Copilot AI tool, which will have more features to help users in apps like Word and Excel, as well as within Windows 11 itself. Copilot can be used to summarize meetings, write emails, help with analysis, and much more.
Jacob Roach / Digital Trends Microsoft’s Yusuf Mehdi explained that “Copilot is going to have an energy” and will understand user intent across all of Microsoft’s apps, including Excel, Word, Teams, and more. Copilot is also going to be available on the Windows 11 desktop, Microsoft added.
One of the main upgrades to Copilot is that it will better understand the context of your requests. It will do this by having a view across your apps, the web, and your devices, which should allow it to pull in more information and respond to you more accurately.
Apple may finally beef up Siri with AI smarts next year Meta just created a Snoop Dogg AI for your text RPGs Microsoft Copilot sounds great. Here’s why I definitely won’t use it AI is going to spread to other aspects of Windows, with the Snipping Tool getting support for Copilot, for example. This will let you bark out a command to Copilot and it will be able to blur backgrounds and perform other tasks simply based on your requests.
Copilot will also be able to fetch information on one device and send it to another. For example, you could ask Copilot to find information for an upcoming flight while on your desktop PC, and then have it send that data to your mobile device.
Windows 11 and Microsoft 365 Jacob Roach / Digital Trends Aside from AI — which Microsoft clearly wants to weave ever more densely into its operating system — Microsoft took a detailed look at Windows 11 and the updates coming to the operating system. There are upgrades for numerous Microsoft apps, for instance, with Paint getting support for layers and the Photos app being able to blur backgrounds in your images.
Inking support is being improved with what Microsoft calls Windows Ink Anywhere. This will allow you to use a Microsoft Pen to write into any text field and have your handwriting converted into text that works in that field. This can even extend to things like math problems.
The event also covered Microsoft 365, which is going to be infused with Copilot. The focus was on a new feature called Microsoft 365 Chat, which will provide summaries and recommendations for you at the beginning of your day. It combs through your meetings, messages and emails to find the most pertinent information for you, then breaks it down into digestible data.
It can also use files you attach to generate output like blog posts, slideshows, and more. Microsoft says the aim is for this whole process to feel like a conversation.
Getting creative Jacob Roach / Digital Trends For anyone wanting to try out some more experimental features of Microsoft’s AI tools, there’s Copilot Lab. This is designed to be a place to try new things with the tool and learn “the art and science of prompting,” Microsoft says.
If you want to create a banner for an event in Word, Copilot can help there too. Microsoft says it can generate images and artwork using just a few prompts. The Microsoft Designer app, meanwhile, will let you remove image backgrounds or add new objects to a picture, thanks to AI.
Microsoft further explained that Copilot will help you find apps that you need for any given purpose. In one example, the company said you could ask Copilot to help you find an app to help you plan a party.
The company unveiled the updates at its special event in New York City on September 21, where it also introduced new Surface laptops and software features.
Despite this being a Surface-themed event, Microsoft’s well-known hardware chief Panos Panay did not take to the stage. That’s because earlier in the week, Panay had announced his departure from Microsoft. The timing of the move — just days before the launch of products that he would surely have introduced — led some to believe that there was a degree of acrimony in Panay’s exodus.
Editors' Recommendations New ‘poisoning’ tool spells trouble for AI text-to-image tech OpenAI’s new tool can spot fake AI images, but there’s a catch Windows 11 is turning into Windows 12 right in front of us Everything Microsoft didn’t announce at its 2023 Surface event I saw the AI future of Windows 11, and it blew me away Artificial Intelligence Microsoft Microsoft Events Tech News Computing Announced during the Microsoft September event, the Surface Laptop Studio 2 joins a growing family of Surface devices. Equipped with all the same flexibility we'd expect from the best 2-in-1 laptops, the Studio 2 may look very similar to the previous version, but it's a lot more different than it seems at a glance.
How does the new version compare to Microsoft's original Laptop Studio? Below, we'll take you on a deep dive into these two devices and help you make your pick if you're trying to choose between them. Make sure to read our Surface Laptop Studio 2 review, as well.
Pricing and availability Computing Microsoft has consistently put out a new version of its most popular Surface device, the Surface Pro. With it due to celebrate its 10th anniversary this year, it's an important milestone for the device and may herald some exciting changes and upgrades over the still-impressive last-generation device, the Surface Pro 9.
As we edge closer to its impending release, here's what we know about the Surface Pro 10 so far.
Computing The Surface Laptop Go 3 is a fast, but affordable new laptop from Microsoft's latest line of Surface devices. Announced at Microsoft's September 2023 Surface event, it offers a speedy modern processor, plenty of SSD storage space, and a range of color options for the chassis. You can get the complete Surface package for $799, but you can configure it with more of less components to make it best suited for your needs.
Those extras do affect the cost, though, begging the question: Which is the best Surface Laptop Go 3 configuration? We've delved through the spec and retail listings to find out.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
