Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Windows 12 GTA 5 Cheats Wordle Today iPhone 15 Deals Upcoming Movies Nintendo Switch 2 NYT Connections Today Google Pixel 8 Pro Review Home Audio / Video Guides Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? What is Sonos? What you need to know about the wireless music system By Charles Leech and Simon Cohen Close When you think about wireless music, one name comes to mind. Sonos. And unless you’re a diehard analog music fan who shuns anything digital, you’ve likely encountered the Sonos brand. It effectively pioneered and normalized the idea of multi-room, digital wireless audio, and it’s still the gold standard to beat.
What is Sonos? Sonos speakers and software Setting up Sonos Music services on Sonos AirPlay and Bluetooth on Sonos Sonos alternatives Curious about what exactly Sonos does, and how it works in the same world that already includes Apple, Spotify, and even your old Technics turntable? Is Sonos right for you? Let’s dig into it.
What is Sonos? Image used with permission by copyright holder Sonos is an audio equipment company that specializes in wireless, multi-room systems. It started in 2002 with software and hardware that let people play their personal digital music collections wirelessly on existing audio gear, and then rapidly expanded into designing and selling all-in-one wireless speakers.
 Those speakers now include portable models that cost as little as $120 to full Dolby Atmos -capable home theater soundbars that cost almost $900. It has partnered with Ikea on a range of affordable home-décor speakers under the Symfonisk brand, and you’ll even find its speakers in some recent Audis.
The best speakers for 2023: great hi-fi options for music and more Sonos Move 2: Sonos’ biggest portable speaker gets a big update JBL’s retro-style wireless speakers could spark serious envy among Sonos fans All of Sonos’ hardware products, as well as those Ikea Symfonisk speakers , are controlled by the Sonos software, creating a full audio ecosystem. The biggest benefits that come along with this ecosystem are ease-of-use, simplicity, and flexibility. You can configure up to 32 different Sonos components in one household, each in its own room, or grouped together in any combination you want. Better yet, each of those components can play a different song, or they can all play the same song in perfect sync, or you can create smaller groupings, each with its own soundtrack. It’s all managed through a simple-to-understand app on your phone, tablet, or computer.
Sonos speakers and software Sonos Is Sonos a speaker or a software company? It’s both! Sonos considers itself to be a software-driven audio company. This means that while it certainly makes speakers and other audio hardware components, it’s the software that ties it all together that truly sets it apart from other companies.
But don’t let this emphasis on software lead you to think of it as a tech brand; its audio credentials are rock-solid (pardon the pun), with world-class music industry producers like Nigel Godrich (Radiohead) and Rick Rubin (Beastie Boys, Public Enemy, Kanye West, etc.) on the consulting payroll. Unless you’re a fanatical audiophile, the Sonos sound is unlikely to disappoint.
Along with its all-in-one wireless speakers, Sonos still offers components that let you turn your traditional, non-wireless audio equipment into wirelessly-connected gear, just as it did when it launched almost 20 years ago.
What kinds of products does Sonos make? The Sonos Roam portable speaker.
Simon Cohen / Digital Trends Sonos makes three major types of wireless speakers: Speakers aimed at those who primarily want to listen to music: The bookshelf-sized Sonos Era 100* The larger, Dolby Atmos-enabled Sonos Era 300* Sonos’ most powerful music speaker, the Sonos Five Included in this category are four Ikea Symfonisk models: Symfonisk Bookshelf Speaker Symfonisk Table Lamp Speaker Symfonisk Picture Frame Speaker Symfonisk Floor Lamp Speaker Speakers aimed at music, home theater, or simply improved TV listening: Sonos Arc * and Arc SL (a Costco-exclusive model) Sonos Beam Gen 2 * Sonos Ray Sonos Sub Sonos Sub Mini Battery-powered, Bluetooth-enabled speakers meant to travel with you wherever you go: Sonos Move * Sonos Roam * and Roam SL Components that work with existing audio gear: Sonos Port , which turns your existing, amplified speakers into a Sonos component that can be controlled by the Sonos app Sonos Amp , which works similarly, but lets you connect up to four non-amplified speakers Finally, Sonos makes a series of accessories like wall mounts, floor stands, and cables, plus it has partnered with Sonance to sell three kinds of “architectural” non-amplified speakers for use with the Sonos Amp: A ceiling speaker, an in-wall speaker, and a weather-proof outdoor speaker.
*V oice-enabled smart speakers What is “Works with Sonos?” Sonos has developed the “Works with Sonos” badge to help its customers identify products that are designed to work seamlessly with their components. Some, like home automation solutions from Crestron and Ikea, can take control of Sonos speakers and components, while other products, like Victrola’s Stream turntable , embed Sonos functionality so that you don’t have to buy additional components. The Stream acts as its own line-in option within the Sonos app. Normally if you wanted to connect a turntable to your Sonos system, it would require a middleman component like a Sonos Port with its own line-in.
Does Sonos make smart speakers that work with Alexa, Google Assistant, and Siri? The microphone indicator on a Sonos Arc.
Simon Cohen / Digital Trends It does. As you can see in the list above, the Sonos Roam, Era 100, Era 300, Move, Beam, and Arc are all voice-enabled. However they don’t all offer the same voice assistant choices at the moment, The Sonos Roam, Move, Beam, and Arc are compatible with Alexa, Google Assistant, and Sonos Voice Control , while the Era 100 and Era 300 only work with Alexa and Sonos Voice control. Sonos says this is due to a change that Google made to its third-party speaker technical requirements prior to the debut of the Era 100 and 300 in March 2023. It’s possible that the two companies will find a way to overcome these hurdles, but given Sonos’ patent dispute win against Google , there may not be a great deal of enthusiasm to do so.
For each of your voice-capable Sonos products, you select either Google Assistant (where supported) or Alexa in the Sonos app. Each voice speaker can run its own AI — so you could have Google Assistant in the kitchen and Alexa in the living room — but you can’t run both AIs simultaneously on one speaker. The exception to this is Alexa and Sonos Voice Control, which can both be active on one device, or you can use Sonos Voice Control on its own.
Once enabled, you can do pretty much anything with these AIs that you can do on other smart speakers that offer these assistants, like asking for the weather, controlling smart home devices, and more. But one of the best features is being able to use these AIs to play music on any Sonos product in your home, whether or not that product is itself a voice-capable speaker. More on that in a moment.
Siri is also possible, but it’s more complicated and very limited. You’ll first need to set up your AirPlay-enabled Sonos products in the Apple Home app (it won’t work with non-AirPlay Sonos products). Then, using your iOS device as the microphone, you can issue commands to Siri about what you want to listen to, and on which Sonos speaker. You’ll be limited to the music services that currently work with Siri, and as with any AirPlay connection, if you shut down the music app, or leave your home, the music will stop.
Does Sonos make portable speakers? Sonos Move and Sonos Roam Simon Cohen / Digital Trends Indeed it does. Sonos offers two sizes: the $399 Move is the company’s larger model. It’s voice-enabled, water- and dust-resistant to the IP56 standard , comes with its own charging station, and has an 11-hour playtime.
The smaller — and newest — portable speaker is the Roam, which has a voice-enabled version ($179) and a non-voice version (Roam SL, $159). Both are dust- and waterproof (IP67 standard, meaning you can submerge them in a meter of water for 30 minutes); they’re both good for 10 hours of play before needing to be recharged.
All three of these speakers work as part of the home system outlined above, meaning you can locate them in any room in your house — they’ll work over your wireless network like all the other Sonos products you own. They also both work over Bluetooth, which means you can take them camping or to your friend’s house and play the music on your phone through them.
When in Bluetooth mode, you won’t be able to use the Sonos app, and you won’t be able to use Google Assistant or Alexa, but Sonos Voice Control will still work for basic playback functions.
How much does Sonos cost? The Sonos-powered Ikea Symfonisk Bookshelf Speaker.
Simon Cohen/Digital Trends The first step into the Sonos ecosystem can be as low as $120 — the cost of its most affordable speaker, the Ikea-branded Symfonisk Bookshelf Speaker.
 From there, the sky’s the limit.
You’ll find speakers and components for a variety of room sizes and listening activities, including portable speakers , ceiling-mounted architectural speakers, outdoor speakers , and soundbars, including the $899 Dolby Atmos-capable Sonos Arc which can be used on its own or with additional Sonos speakers for a full home theater package. The Sonos app is free to download.
I’ve heard that some older Sonos speakers don’t work anymore. Is that true? The now-discontinued Sonos Play:5.
Image used with permission by copyright holder It’s a little complicated. In 2020, the company announced that some of its older products would stop receiving updates and that if users continued to use these “legacy” components alongside newer Sonos products, none of the products would receive planned updates. The initial hope was that these customers would accept a 30% discount on new products for every legacy product they agreed to trade in. Unfortunately, Sonos’ trade-in program actually involved making those legacy products completely unusable, effectively relegating them to the landfill.
This touched off a firestorm of controversy and ultimately caused Sonos CEO Patrick Spence to backtrack on the terms of the trade-in program.
Today, any legacy Sonos products will still work, and Sonos has committed to keeping them operational for as long as possible, but with the following caveats: As originally announced, if you run legacy products on the same system as newer products, none of these products will get software updates.
However, you can choose to run all of your legacy products on their own system, separate from your newer products. This keeps your newer products up-to-date while letting you continue to use the older products too, albeit in a much less convenient fashion. There’s no way to group old and new products; each system requires its own separate instance of the Sonos app on your phone.
To make this work, Sonos split its single control app into two versions : The S1 app is now strictly for legacy products and/or any components that you are fine with not receiving updates. Its functionality will never improve, and in fact, many of its current features may disappear over time. The S2 app is the current Sonos app and it will get all new updates as they are released. Many of Sonos’ newer products, like the Sonos Beam Gen 2 or Sonos Ray , will only work on the S2 app.
Sonos legacy products include the first-generation Play:5 speaker, the first-generation Connect and Connect:Amp, five versions of the original Zone Player, the Bridge, and the CR200.
Setting up Sonos Setting up a Sonos system is super easy. If you have an existing Wi-Fi router at home, you can add up to 32 Sonos speakers or components, one by one, using the Sonos app.
Once you’ve plugged your first Sonos product into a power outlet, the app will automatically find it and prompt you through the creation of your initial system, including a connection to your Wi-Fi network.
You’ll be asked what room the component is in (with the option to customize the name), and when that component is a Sonos wireless speaker, you’ll be given the option to tune your room with Trueplay , which uses your iPhone’s microphone to assess the audio environment in which your speaker is located and adjust the speaker’s equalizer accordingly. Sonos’ newest speakers, the Era 100 and 300 can also be tuned using their onboard mics, making them the first non-portable Sonos products that give Android users the benefit of Trueplay.
In some cases, home Wi-Fi networks are too congested to let Sonos work effectively. In this case, wiring a single Sonos product into your modem/router lets Sonos establish its own proprietary Wi-Fi network called SonosNet, which can often help with reliability.
Don’t want to have a speaker or other audio component tethered to your modem? Sonos sells a $99 accessory called a Boost , that will take care of establishing SonosNet. Simply plug the Boost into your modem and then place your Sonos audio components anywhere you like.
Once your components are set up and running, you only need to add music sources to start listening.
What are some of the best features of a Sonos system? Wireless capabilities : Put a speaker anywhere you have a power outlet Portable capabilities : Take the Roam or the Move with you wherever you go, and it will reconnect with your home system as soon as you get back Expandable : Add up to 32 Sonos products into a single home Flexibility : Play a different source of music to every one of your products — up to the system maximum of 32 — or combine them all together with one click (and every option in between) Range : Accommodates the most number of streaming services, plus local digital files, plus legacy audio components High-quality audio : Well-made, premium products with great sound Great app : Simple, intuitive, with support for tons of streaming services, and supported by the best universal search you can get Home theater : Integrate your big-screen audio set-up into your Sonos system easily How do I get Sonos to work with my existing audio gear? The Sonos Amp connected to a turntable.
Simon Cohen/Digital Trends From sound sources like vinyl-spinning turntables to CD players, and sound systems like your classic Marantz receiver with vintage Klipsch speakers, Sonos is able to integrate all of these existing components into its wireless, whole-home ecosystem.
To play records, CDs, cassette tapes, or even the sound from a TV through a Sonos system’s speakers, you’ll need a Sonos product that can accept an analog or digital “line-in.” The Port, the Amp, the Five, and both the Era 100 and 300 speakers accept analog sources like turntables, cassette decks, or CD players. For digital sources, the Sonos Amp, Beam, and Arc can accept HDMI or optical connections, while the Ray works with just optical.
Once connected, these sources can be accessed in two ways: Analog sources can be selected from the Line-In option in the Browse menu in the Sonos app. You’ll then be shown a list of the Sonos products that currently have gear connected to their audio inputs. If your turntable is connected to a Port called “Bedroom,” you’d select that option.
A TV connected digitally via optical or HDMI ARC/eARC to an Amp or soundbar works differently. TV sound can be played through the soundbar (or speakers connected to the Amp) and through any Sonos component that is grouped with either of these components, but it can’t be accessed independently like a true Line-in component.
But you can also use the Sonos system as a source for any of your amplified or non-amplified speakers.
If you have an A/V receiver or a stereo receiver, you already have a source of amplification for your speakers. In this case, connecting a Sonos Port via its analog or digital outputs will effectively turn your amplified speakers into a Sonos speaker. If you have a set of non-amplified speakers, you can hard-wire them to a Sonos Amp, which has a built-in class-D amplifier that’s powerful enough for up to two pairs of small or large speakers.
How can I use Sonos to control multiple speakers in my home? Image used with permission by copyright holder Sonos can accommodate up to 32 different components on a single system, so you could have Sonos speakers or other components in the living room, kitchen, kids’ bedrooms, master bedroom, back patio, and so on. You can have multiple speakers in one room, and if any two of those speakers are identical (e.g. two Sonos Ones or two Symfonisk Table Lamp Speakers), you can set them up as stereo pairs. It’s up to you.
The components show up individually in the app, by selecting the System tab (which looks like a stylized LED volume meter). Sonos allows you to easily rename them too, so you can identify them by room, speaker, color, or by personal nickname.
You can direct each of your speakers to play a separate song, playlist, or station as you wish. Perhaps your spouse wants to listen to 80s New Wave on the back deck, while you want to listen to today’s alternative rock in the living room. Meanwhile, your kids can keep listening to Taylor Swift in their bedrooms.
But with a few clicks, you can combine any number of speakers together to play a single source, so, for example, you could play Baroque Classics in the living room, dining room, kitchen, and laundry room and it will do so without lag or delay — you can walk from each of those rooms to the other and the same music will just be there, flowing normally.
All of this is independent of the speakers you choose to omit from this grouping, so your spouse can still happily listen to 80s New Wave on the back deck without interruption. There’s also a Play Everywhere option that will direct the music of your choice to play through all of your Sonos components.
Another handy aspect of the Sonos system is that control and playback are independent of each other. In other words, you can think of the Sonos app as a remote control for Sonos components, and everyone in your house can have that remote on their own devices.
If you start an Apple Music stream on your kitchen Sonos One, you can quit the Sonos app, or even leave the house with your phone, and the music will continue until the playlist comes to an end, or someone else in your home takes control using their Sonos app.
The only downside to this arrangement is that there are currently no user profiles within the Sonos system. So if you install the Sonos app on your daughter’s phone, she’ll have just as much control over all of the Sonos components in your home as you do.
Search and you will find Of course, having this level of control over the sound in your home is only useful if you can find and play the music you want to hear. That’s where Sonos’ universal search feature comes in. Simply type whatever you’re looking for in the search field, and the app will find all relevant matches from all of your sources, including your personal library, internet radio stations, and streaming music services.
The results are sorted by source, so you’ll see which of your available services contain matching music, but you can also filter those matches by a huge number of subcategories, including: Artist Song title Album title Playlist Station Genre Podcasts & shows Composer Radio episodes Radio shows Feel like listening to The Clash? Typing “Clash” in the search window will first bring up any artist with the word Clash in its name across all music sources. A swipe of the finger will next bring up songs with “Clash” in the title, again across all sources, and the same for albums, playlists, and so on.
Can I control Sonos with my voice? How does that work? Simon Cohen / Digital Trends Once set up, and as long as your voice instructions are precise (for example, you identify the name of the Sonos speaker/room accurately), you can pass instructions through a voice-enabled Sonos speaker, using Alexa or Google Assistant (GA). If you don’t own any voice-enabled Sonos speakers, you can use a third-party smart speaker, like an Echo Dot, or Google Nest Mini.
What you can do with Sonos will be determined by what those AIs can do. General commands like “ play ,” “ pause ,” “ skip this song ,” and “ turn the volume up, ” will work for all music that’s playing, but each AI has its own list of supported music services. For instance, Alexa doesn’t support YouTube Music, and Google doesn’t support Amazon Music (naturally), so you’ll have to do some research to make sure your chosen service works with your chosen AI.
As long as your music service is supported, you can set it as your default, using the Alexa or Google Home apps. After that, telling Alexa/GA to play music (on a particular speaker) will use that default service unless you ask otherwise. You can ask for specific bands or songs and Alexa/GA will comply.
As of June 2022, Sonos has its own version, called Sonos Voice Control.
 Once set up, you can say, “Hey, Sonos,” to any voice-enabled Sonos speaker, followed by a command. Say, “Hey, Sonos, play Shirley Bassey radio in the living room and dining room,” and Sonos will make it so. As long as your older Sonos speakers are on the same Sonos system as your newer, Voice Control-microphone-enabled speakers, you’ll be able to control them that way, too.
Sonos Voice Control isn’t meant to be a replacement for Alexa/GA, as it’s not capable of responding to non-Sonos requests like asking for directions or finding a recipe. Instead, it’s a way to do all of the same things you can do in the Sonos app, but with your voice.
Music services on Sonos Image used with permission by copyright holder Sonos offers the ability to play music from a wide range of sources, including: Your existing digital music collection If you have a collection of digital music located on a PC, network-attached storage (NAS) drive, or an Android mobile device (for iOS users, see our section on AirPlay 2, below), Sonos can play it, along with any playlists you may have created. The software can also scan and index your iTunes library if that’s how you’ve chosen to organize your music. Supported audio formats include MP3, MP4, M4A, WMA, AAC and HE-AAC, OGG, FLAC, ALAC, AIFF, and WAV.
Connected sound sources Sonos also works with external analog and digital audio equipment if you want. This can include a turntable, CD payer, or tape deck, but also your TV, through an optical or HDMI ARC/eARC connection. You’ll need specific Sonos components to make this work (see the How do I get Sonos to work with my existing audio gear? section, above).
Apple Music, Spotify, and other streaming music services Sonos also plays nicely with streaming music services : Spotify, Apple Music , YouTube Music , TuneIn, Tidal , Amazon Music , Soundcloud, Audible and many others are also readily available through the Add Music Services option in the Services and Voice tab in the app settings. In fact, Sonos supports more streaming services than any other multi-room music system. It also offers its own streaming music service called Sonos Radio — in both free and paid tiers — as a homegrown alternative.
What is Sonos Radio? Sonos Sonos Radio is a streaming service of curated playlists and radio stations. The free version, simply called Sonos Radio, comes preinstalled in the Sonos app. A paid version called Sonos Radio HD is also available for $8 per month. In both versions, music is primarily organized into genres (Rock, Country, Jazz, Classical, etc.), with multiple stations living within each genre; for example, in the Rock genre, you can choose between stations/playlists for Early Classic Rock, Soft/Yacht Rock, Glam Metal & Ballads, Grunge, Punk Rock, and so on. Other Sonos Radio stations/playlists are categorized by celebrity guest curators, such as Thom Yorke, Dolly Parton, Eryka Badu, and so on. The service also gives you one-touch access to hundreds of local and global music, talk, sports, and news radio stations: News Talk 98.9 ‘Roar of Memphis’ is right there for you if you wish.
If you opt for Sonos Radio HD, the Sonos-created playlists and stations go from a very lossy 128kbps to 16-bit/44.1 kHz lossless, CD-quality audio. It also eliminates the ads and adds the ability to skip songs on station playlists (and immediately replay your faves). You also get more radio stations: 60,000 in total.
Unlike almost any other streaming service, both versions of Sonos Radio only work on a Sonos system using the Sonos app – there’s no standalone app for Sonos Radio available to either iOS or Android users.
Is Sonos compatible with hi-res and lossless audio? To a degree, yes. Sonos can handle lossless music files up to 24-bit/48 kHz, which is better than CD quality, and generally considered hi-res audio. To get this level of quality, your system will need to be running on the S2 version of the Sonos app and your music source will need to support it too.
For music files resident in your personal library, this means either FLAC or ALAC formats. Uncompressed AIFF and WAV files are also supported, but only up to a bit depth of 16-bit.
Lossy formats, like MP3, MP4, and M4A will all stream at bitrates of up to 320kbps.
When it comes to streaming music services, Sonos is currently compatible with 24-bit/48kHz hi-res audio from Amazon Music and Qobuz, but with one important caveat: If you attempt to stream a hi-res track from these services with a sampling frequency that’s higher than 48kHz (which is quite common — many hi-res tracks are 96 or 192kHz), the entire track will be delivered at lossless 16-bit/44.1kHz CD-quality instead.
AirPlay and Bluetooth on Sonos Image used with permission by copyright holder You may be wondering why you’d want to buy Sonos products when there are now a wide variety of speakers that support Apple AirPlay 2 and Google Chromecast , not to mention the countless ones that have Bluetooth. Here’s how these four technologies compare.
Both AirPlay 2 and Chromecast use Wi-Fi to create a wireless audio link between a phone or computer and a compatible speaker, soundbar, or home audio system. They both support multiroom playback, via Apple and Google’s respective Home apps.
Chromecast is closer to Sonos in that once you initiate a playback session on a Chromecast-enabled speaker, you don’t need to keep your music app open on your phone — the speaker establishes its own connection to the content. But, for Chromecast to work, both your speaker and your audio app need to be Chromecast-enabled.
Airplay 2, on the other hand, is a peer-to-peer connection. You can stream any audio from your Apple device to a compatible speaker using AirPlay, but if you close that audio app on your phone while in the midst of an AirPlay session, the audio will stop.
But the biggest difference between Sonos and Airplay/Chromecast is the way you interact with them. With Chromecast or AirPlay, you pick an audio source on your device — like the Spotify app — and use that to control what you’re hearing. But to control where you hear it, or on how many speakers, you need to use the Google Home or Apple Home app. Want to change what you’re listening to? You’ll need to open a new app, like TuneIn or Amazon Music, and go and find your new song, artist, etc.
But wait, I thought Sonos speakers also have AirPlay? Yes, all of Sonos’ recent products, starting with the Sonos One in 2017, come equipped with AirPlay 2. And while that might seem like a contradiction, it’s more like an enhancement of the core Sonos system. Using AirPlay 2, you can stream any audio from an iOS, iPadOS, MacOS, or even tvOS product, to a Sonos component directly, without needing to use the Sonos app.
This accomplishes two things. It lets you play any music you may have stored on your device, and it lets you use your Sonos equipment for much better audio when watching video from sources like YouTube, Netflix, and others.
Want to hear that content on more than one Sonos component? You can group the AirPlay-connected product with any other Sonos product (using the Sonos app), and it will pick up the same AirPlay content, even if that speaker is older, and doesn’t have AirPlay itself (like a Sonos Play:1).
What’s the difference between Sonos and Bluetooth? Image used with permission by copyright holder The core Sonos system is built on Wi-Fi. As a wireless technology, Wi-Fi has several key strengths: It has a lot of bandwidth, so you can stream even the highest resolution, lossless audio without any bottlenecks. It’s literally networked — all Wi-Fi devices on the same network can speak to each other, passing data back and forth, and that allows for incredible control within the Sonos app. Being able to add, remove, and group Sonos components relies on Wi-Fi.
It also enables mesh networking when you’ve set up your Sonos system using SonosNet — each Sonos device can act as a wireless bridge to the next-nearest Sonos device, letting you spread out your speakers and components much farther than you could using a regular Wi-Fi router. Because Wi-Fi doesn’t use the same part of your phone’s audio system as Bluetooth, Wi-Fi music doesn’t have to stop when your phone rings or you want to place a call.
But Wi-Fi also has limitations. It’s very power-hungry, so Wi-Fi devices are usually plugged into power continuously instead of relying on batteries that can die. Wi-Fi (with a few rare exceptions) needs the presence of a Wi-Fi router, or in the case of Sonos, a component that’s wired to your modem/router, so it simply doesn’t work when you’re away from home.
Bluetooth, on the other hand, is a wireless technology that’s ideal in these situations. It takes far less power to operate, and it works device-to-device, from a phone or tablet directly to a Bluetooth speaker — no network required. But the absence of a network can make it hard to manage multiple Bluetooth speakers. Companies that have managed to do so typically rely on a repeater-style solution, where you can daisy-chain multiple Bluetooth speakers, but there’s no individual control, and all of the chained speakers must play the same audio.
Bluetooth has also been bandwidth-limited, traditionally. This is changing, but the vast majority of Bluetooth devices can only play highly compressed music streams. Where Bluetooth is able to achieve wireless, hi-res audio, it requires specific, shared Bluetooth codecs on both the source device (like a phone) and the sink device (the speaker).
For years, Sonos did not make any products that used Bluetooth, but recently it has changed its tune. In addition to the portable Sonos Move and the smaller Sonos Roam, the new Era 100 and 300 speakers also support Bluetooth. The only caveat is that when these speakers are in Bluetooth mode, you can’t use the Sonos app to control them.
Sonos alternatives The Denon Home 250.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Wireless home audio systems are popular, and so there are a number of companies competing with Sonos. Bose has its own ecosystem of whole-home wireless speakers , which are compatible with Wi-Fi, Bluetooth, Chromecast, and AirPlay. You control it through the Bose Music app, but the software isn’t as intuitive as Sonos. There’s no universal search and Bose does not currently support Apple Music within its own app. Bose also doesn’t handle multiple sources of music across multiple rooms and/or speakers as effortlessly as Sonos.
Google Nest Audio is another alternative and works better than Bose across multiple rooms and products, but it only has two models of speakers to choose from. If you have only one room or a bachelor flat — and no immediate plans to expand — the Google Nest Audio might suffice.
The Apple HomePod Gen 2 is the Apple ecosystem’s wireless, multiroom speaker. You can manage multiple HomePods (and HomePod minis ) from the Apple Home app. Like the Bose system, it’s not as powerful for managing multiple sources of music, and Apple’s emphasis on using Siri for most functions (and its lack of Bluetooth) keeps it strictly for Apple fans.
For larger and/or multiple rooms, Denon’s Home family of wireless speakers offers more robust audio credentials, but its HEOS app is tricky to navigate, and it offers only limited features compared to Sonos ; Denon speakers tend to be larger and a bit more powerful but are also more expensive than comparable Sonos speakers.
Perhaps the closest competitor to Sonos is Bluesound.
 The Canada-based company has a lineup of speakers and components that mirror almost all of Sonos’ offerings. Even the Bluesound app , powered by BluOS, is remarkably similar to Sonos.
Finally, there’s Wiim. The company only makes two products, the Wiim Mini and Wiim Pro , which are both roughly equivalent to the Sonos Port, but they’re incredibly affordable. The Wiim software is so close to Sonos, we’d be surprised if these two companies don’t end up in court one day.
Editors' Recommendations What is a network music streamer and why do you need one? B&O’s Beolab 8 wireless speaker uses AirTag tech to track you What is Google TV? Here’s everything you need to know Dolby Atmos FlexConnect could eliminate home theater soundbars and HDMI cables Best Bluetooth speaker deals: Save on Bose, Sonos, JBL, and more Sonos Audio / Video It's a jungle of music streaming platforms out there, so it stands to reason that Amazon would have one among its massive kingdom of services. And while Amazon Music might not be top of mind among the Spotifys and Apple Musics of the world, you might be surprised by its 100-million-song library, high-resolution and spatial audio offerings, podcast library, Alexa voice control, and a pretty amiable user interface that makes finding music pretty easy.
Amazon Music's subscriptions range from free to its premium Music Unlimited tier, which can be added for $9 per month on top of a subscription to Amazon Prime. However, Amazon recently announced that, as of September 19, this price is going up to $10 per month (more on this below). But they all come with some quirks and features. We're going to break them all down for you to help you choose which, if any, Amazon Music plan is right for you.
Audio / Video Google once had its own dedicated music player called Google Play Music -- and if you’ve looked into that streaming option lately, you will see that it’s been shut down. As you may know, people regularly use YouTube itself to play music, search for new songs, and assemble playlists of their favorites. This prompted Google to release a new, upgraded service called YouTube Music, a music-only source for streaming your tunes.
Is YouTube Music a contender along with apps like Spotify, Tidal, or Apple Music? Well, that may depend on how much you use YouTube to look for music and how important music videos are to you. Here’s everything you should know.
Audio / Video Choosing the best wireless speaker from the sea of options out there can be tricky. What defines a "wireless" speaker can mean many things to people: Does it use Bluetooth or your home's Wi-Fi network (or both) to connect and stream music and podcasts from your phone or other sources? Is it portable (with a battery) or more of an at-home, plug-in kinda speaker that's part of a bigger multi-room network music system? Yes, yes, and yes.
For this roundup, we're going to focus more on the plug-in variety with Wi-Fi and/or Bluetooth wireless capabilities, because we have a whole other roundup of the more portable Bluetooth speaker variety for you to check out, too.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
