Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home News Tom Hanks warns of AI-generated ad using his likeness By Trevor Mogg Close Tom Hanks has warned his fans not to be fooled by a video ad circulating online that appears to show him endorsing a dental plan.
The ad has apparently been created using an artificial intelligence-powered tool that’s able to mimic his voice and closely match his lip movements to his spoken words.
The Hollywood star took to his Instagram account on Sunday to say that the AI-generated ad has nothing to do with him.
This AI algorithm could save lives in quake zones Spotify using AI to clone and translate podcasters’ voices AI drone beats pro drone racers at their own game “BEWARE!!” Hanks began his post.
 “There’s a video out there promoting some dental plan with an AI version of me. I have nothing to do with it.” His words were pasted over an image of a younger-looking Hanks, though it’s not clear if the shot was taken directly from the dental ad.
Tom Hanks Hanks declined to share the details of the ad, and it’s not clear who created it.
The growing ease with which new AI-powered tools can impersonate individuals suggests such scams will become a growing problem for celebrities, or indeed for anyone with a lot of video content online that features their face and voice.
AI technology is advancing all the time, and one of the issues in the ongoing actors strike concerns the degree to which movie studios will be able to use AI to create likenesses of movie stars.
Speaking on The Adam Buxton Podcast earlier this year, Hanks said: “We saw this coming. We saw that there was going to be this ability to take zeros and ones inside a computer and turn them into a face and a character. Now that has only grown a billion-fold since then, and we see it everywhere.” He added that if he was suddenly no longer here, the technology now exists for him to appear in new movies.
“I could be hit by a bus tomorrow, and that’s it, but performances can go on and on and on and on,” the star said. “Outside the understanding of AI and deepfake , there’ll be nothing to tell you that it’s not me and me alone. And it’s going to have some degree of lifelike quality. That’s certainly an artistic challenge, but it’s also a legal one.” Editors' Recommendations Boston Dynamics uses ChatGPT to create a robot tour guide Hollywood writers strike ends after agreement on AI and other issues Coca-Cola apparently used AI to create a soda ‘from the future’ AI-powered commentary is coming to next month’s Wimbledon Amazon deploys AI to summarize product reviews Artificial Intelligence Tech News News Amazon looks set to jump aboard the generative AI bandwagon with a new project that will involve a "once-in-a-generation transformation for search," according to a job ad spotted by Bloomberg on Monday.
The listing -- now removed by Amazon but accessible via a web-based archive -- is for a senior software development engineer and says: “We are reimagining Amazon Search with an interactive conversational experience that helps you find answers to product questions, perform product comparisons, receive personalized product suggestions, and so much more, to easily find the perfect product for your needs.” Entertainment In his long Hollywood career, Tom Hanks has had two major roles for Disney: Woody the Cowboy in the Toy Story franchise and Walt Disney himself in Saving Mr. Banks. And for his next Disney contribution, Hanks is one of the stars of the upcoming live-action adaptation of Pinocchio, which is heading to Disney+ later this year.
In the film, Hanks will portray Geppetto, the lonely old puppeteer who crafted Pinocchio with his own hands. Out of desperation and loneliness, Geppetto wished for a son. His wish was granted by the Blue Fairy, and Pinocchio took on a life of his own. Unfortunately for Geppetto, Pinocchio wasn't exactly a dutiful son. And Pinocchio also has quite a talent for getting into trouble.
Computing Nvidia is looking to make work and development in artificial intelligence more accessible, giving researchers an easy way to access its DGX supercomputer. The company announced that it will launch a subscription service for its DGX Superpod as an affordable way to gain entry into the world of supercomputers.
The DGX SuperPod is capable of 100 petaflops of AI performance, according to the company, and when configured 20 DGX A100 systems, it's designed for large-scale AI projects.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
