Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Outdoors Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? 2019 Gocycle GX review: Carry me Gocycle's GX fast-folding urban commuter is a blast to ride and easy to carry.
By Bruce Brown Close $3,299.00 Lightweight strength with style High-quality custom components Easy to carry when folded Perfect for urban commuting No standard front and rear lights Largely limited to smooth surfaces Sleek, sophisticated, foldable, and portable urban transportation – that’s the Gocycle GX.
 The GX is a Class 2 electric bike designed for people who live and work in the city. It’ll catch your eye with its undeniably gorgeous looks, but it’s also a practical electric bike for your daily commute.
It’s a frame job Power to ride Our Take Gocycle CEO Richard Thorp left McLaren Cars Limited in 2002 to follow a dream. The former design engineer founded Karbon Kinetics to build the world’s best urban electric bike. Karbon Kinetics launched the Gocycle G1 in 2009. The G1 was the first bicycle with an injection-molded magnesium alloy frame – a process and material chosen for lightweight strength. The Gocycle G2 and G3, which launched in 2012 and 2016, were the first e-bikes with Bluetooth connectivity and a daytime running light (DRL), respectively. This year’s introduction of the GX added a fast-folding model to the Gocycle line.
Gocycle’s new GXi electric bike can fold away in a mere 10 seconds It’s a frame job The GX has a hydro-formed aluminum 6061 alloy front frame with a magnesium injection-molded drive unit. There are no chains or belts in sight, and only two short sets of wrapped cables on the folding handlebar stem.
Bruce Brown / Digital Trends With most components and connections integrated into the frame, the Gocycle folder has a finished and uncluttered look. This isn’t just about looks. The lack of dangling cables or chains means you can maneuver the bike in tight spaces without greasing your shins or getting snagged.
At 39.2 pounds, the GX is easy to carry for an electric bike. The Rad Power Bikes’ Radmini , for example, is nearly 30 pounds heavier than the GX. The Gocycle GX also measures a compact 34.6-inches x 15.3-inches x 24.2-inches (LWH) with its frame, handlebar, and pedals folded.
The Gocycle’s magnesium wheels mount on one side only. Called Pitstopwheels, their unusual design aids fast removal and mounting. Also, if the need arises, you can change a flat tire without taking the wheel off the bike.
You don’t have to worry about snagging cables or catching your clothes on gears.
The GX has a comfortable Velo Sport saddle mounted on an adjustable-height aluminum seat post. You can’t adjust the handlebar height on the GX, although you can on the more recently introduced GXi model.
 The more costly GXi version also adds a higher-powered battery, an LED light pipe facing forward on the handlebar, and a more informative handlebar display. The GX lists for $3,299, and the GXi for $4,799.
The GX handlebar has a mechanical twist shifter on the right grip to change gears on the Cleandrive Shimano Nexus 3-speed transmission. Push on the thumb throttle that sits just inside the left grip, and you can stop pedaling and accelerate, or maintain your speed with only the throttle. The throttle only works, however, after you reach four miles per hour by pedaling. The handlebar also has levers for the GX’s front and rear hydraulic disc brakes on the grips.
A series of five tiny red LEDs indicate the remaining battery charge. You otherwise don’t get any indicators, which is a bummer. Most bikes in this price range have a small black-and-white LCD with range, total mileage, and speed, among other information.
Bruce Brown / Digital Trends The Gocycle GX connects to your smartphone over Bluetooth and the Gocycle Connect app. The app has unboxing and setup videos, a registration function, mode settings that balance motor assistance with pedal effort levels, loads of speed, distance, and caloric statistics, plus a display with speed, distance, and power usage.
If you want all that data at your fingertips while you ride, you can attach the phone to the handlebar with an included pair of custom elastic retainers come. Once you have the GX registered and configured, you do not have to connect your phone with the bike to ride it.
Obviously, the phone app is meant to be used in place of the absent LCD display. However, after setting up the GX, I seldom used the app, other than to confirm that the e-bike could reach 20 miles per hour. Taking out my phone and attaching it was a minor hassle that often didn’t seem worth the effort.
The GX has a center stand and comes with a bell and front and rear reflectors, but no headlight or rear light. This is another feature that’s present on many competitors. Lights are important for commuting, and I’d prefer to see them integrated as part of the bike’s entry-level kit.
Power to ride The Gocycle GX is easy to ride and moves quickly up to its Class 2-limited 20-mph speed. The GX’s 22-volt 13.7 Ah 300-watt Lithium-ion battery gives GX has a range of up to 40 miles per charge. Recharging takes about seven hours.
You have to pedal at least four miles per hour to access electrical power for the GX, after which you can continue to use pedal-assist or throttle mode. The Gocycle’s torque-sensing motor drive control responds to the force with which you push on the pedals to activate a proprietary 500-watt front hub motor.
The GX is light enough that pedaling without assistance is reasonably easy, at least for short distances on flat pavement. I did not spend much of my time with the bike pedaling the Gocycle, but the twist-grip shifter works smoothly to change gears if needed. For short distances, at least, pedal-power only is an option.
The GX rides on 20-inch street tires best suited for paved surfaces. You can ride on grass and other relatively smooth surfaces, but tires aren’t wide enough to handle off-road, trail, or beach riding.
You’ll want to avoid poorly paved streets, too. I discovered that when I took a turn down a cobblestone street. I quickly dismounted and walked the bike to avoid damaging the bike or myself. The frame and small wheels make for a jarring experience. A larger bike will handle bumps better, though that will of course come at the expensive of portability.
Bruce Brown / Digital Trends The Gocycle GX’s $3,299 price tag will give pause to electric bike shoppers who see other bikes, including folding models such as the excellent Rad Power Bikes Radmini priced half or less than the GX.
Much of the price can be blamed on top-line components such as its mechanical disc brakes and rear suspension. The more significant factor in the Gocycle e-bike pricing stems from the company’s investment in design and style. The GX uses few off-the-shelf components from other vendors. Most of the parts and systems are proprietary, or custom adapted for Gocycle.
Our Take The Gocycle GX is an attractive electric bike that’s an excellent fit for urban commuters or even for casual rides around a village or town. The bike’s sleek looks disguise the GX’s toughness, as its combination of aluminum and magnesium alloys disguise the frame and wheels’ underlying strength. At $3,299, the Gocycle GX costs a bit, but we think the investment is worth it for someone who will use the bike as essential transportation daily.
Is there a better alternative? If you are the right rider for the Gocycle GX, there’s no better choice with the same combination of weight, strength, and style. The “right rider” for the GX is someone who rides on pavement most of the time and wants an e-bike for commuting that’s easy to carry and doesn’t haul a lot of cargo.
If you’re a city rider who prefers a more traditional road bike, the Raleigh Redux iE Step Over is an excellent choice. The $3,499 Redux is a Class 3 e-bike capable of 28 mph with its 350-watt Bosch Performance Speed mid-drive motor and 500-watt Bosch Powerpack battery.
If you’re in the market for a folding bike that handles all types of surfaces, we strongly recommend Rad Power Bikes’ Radmini fat tire folding bike — as long as the Radmini’s 67-pound weight isn’t an issue.
Our guide to the best electric bikes has recommendations for different e-bike styles.
How long will it last? The Gocycle GX should last as long or longer than most other ebikes, so it’s safe to figure on three-to-five years or longer. In addition to its high-strength structural components, encasing most of the GX’s vulnerable parts such as gears and cables protects them from accidental damage.
Gocycle’s e-bike warranty covers the battery for one year, components for two years, and the frame for three years, not including normal wear and usage. The warranty periods are for the initial purchaser; subsequent owners are covered for 50% of the first-owner warranty periods subject to the original purchase date.
Should you buy one? Yes. If you live or work in a city where your daily route is on paved roads, the Gocycle GX is an excellent choice. The GX’s light weight, compact folded size, and ability to roll while folded pay off for storage, elevator rides, and even carrying up and down stairs.
Editors' Recommendations Propella 3.0 ebike review: Cheap thrills Cars e-Bikes eBike Reviews Product Reviews Outdoors EcoFlow, a manufacturer of portable energy solutions, has announced the launch of the Delta 2 Max -- an eco-friendly solar generator that could replace your current gas generator. The device clocks in at 2,048 watts and should deliver enough power to keep your home running for two days as an emergency backup (or many more if you’re using it as an off-grid power source).
The original Delta Max was a popular item for outdoor adventures, as it could connect to the existing lineup of portable EcoFlow solar panels to juice up gadgets while out in the backcountry. That legacy continues with the Delta 2 Max, which features an upgraded lithium iron phosphate (LFP) battery for a longer life cycle and faster charging.
Outdoors Warm weather is here, and so is grilling season. Now is as good a time as any to set out in search of one of the best outdoor grills, and it’s never a bad time to keep an eye out for a discount on one as well. Whether you’re a grilling beginner ready for some burgers with the family or a seasoned pro looking to host summer gatherings around one of the best smart grills and smokers, we’ve tracked down all of the details you need to land a deal on a grill that’s right for your needs. Read onward for more details.
Everdure CUBE charcoal grill — $150, was $199 The Everdure CUBE charcoal grill is a unique little grill that can truly go almost anywhere with you. It’s lightweight and only 17-inches long, yet still can handle almost any grilling challenge a griller on the go could hope to throw at it. It has a built-in heat protection shield and chrome handles that remain cool while cooking, and the removable charcoal tray offers easy cleanup when you’re finished at the campground or on the beach. Wherever you intend to do some grilling this summer, the Everdure CUBE charcoal grill is a great option as a copilot.
Outdoors The best electric bikes have come a long way in recent years and we don't just mean in terms of the miles you travel. With technology changing quickly, there are also an increasing number of electric bike deals around and we've picked out some of the very best. Electric bikes are a great way of getting around more easily and without necessarily needing to use as much stamina as a regular bike. Below, you'll find fantastic e-bike bike deals from many different retailers. There'll be something for every need here. Let's take a look at them.
Jasion EB5 Electric Bike -- $430, was $750 With a 350w brushless motor, the Jasion EB5 Electric Bike can achieve a top speed of 20 MPH with a range of up to 25-40 miles per charge. It has four working modes with a PAS mode where the motor assists with a moderate amount of power as you pedal, along with a Pure Electric Mode, a Pedal Mode, and a Booster Mode where the bike assist on hills and anywhere else you might be struggling. 26-inch puncture-resistant tires provide excellent durability while there's a high-strength front fork suspension, Shimano 7-speed gears, dual lights, and an LCD display. The latter offers controls for adjustable backlight brightness with one of five levels, along with mode controls.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
