Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Outdoors Rad Power Bikes RadMini review: Fat bike Rad Power Bikes' RadMini fat tire folding e-bike makes any journey fun By Bruce Brown Close $1,499.00 Great value all-purpose e-bike Smooth gear shifts and pedal assist Fat tires laugh at surface changes Folds for storage and transport Heavy, awkward to carry Conforms to Class 2 20-mph limit If you’re itching to buy your first electric bicycle bike but you’re overwhelmed by the many types, brands, and price ranges, we have an easy solution: Buy the 2019 Rad Power Bike RadMini fat tire folding e-bike. The RadMini is a Class 2 e-bike with electric pedal assist and throttle operation. The RadMini powers along up to 20 mph and with a 25 to 45-mile range per charge. This e-bike is an incredible value at $1,499 750 watts on tap Mini? Not so much Fat tires steal the spotlight Our Take In the fast-growing world of special-purpose models, no other e-bike performs as many roles as well as the RadMini with its Kendra on/off-road fat tires. This versatile ride also folds so you won’t need a rack for the back of your vehicle or much floor space in your garage or home.
Since we reviewed the 2017 RadMini , the e-bike market has exploded. The RadMini has become a benchmark for other e-bikes. The RadMini’s sturdy construction, high-torque battery power, and well-chosen components add up to a great value at an affordable price. Rad Power Bike’s online sales and support also keep the prices low — if sold through retailer supply chains, the cost would probably be twice as much.
Rad Power Bikes RadMini fat tire folding e-bike at Wilmington Marina Bruce Brown / Digital Trends The RadMini is an amazing all-purpose e-bike , but it’s not the best e-bike for every purpose. If you’re looking for a high-powered trail e-bike , a competitive performance e-bike , or a cargo bike to transport children and groceries, the RadMini isn’t a great choice. E-bike early adopters often have specific needs, but most prospective riders today want an e-bike they can ride around the neighborhood, cruise beaches, ride in parks, and maybe get some exercise along the way. Unless you’re single-use focused, an all-purpose e-bike is the best bet, and that’s where the RadMini shines.
The RadMini is also available with a lower top tube. The RadMini Step-Thru has fat street tires, but all other components are identical.
750 watts on tap The RadMini gets its power from a 48-volt 14 Ah Lithium-ion battery. The battery powers a 750-watt, Bafang geared-hub motor with 59 foot-pounds of torque. The RadMini won’t do burnouts and drag you down the street, but the motor adds ample power assistance when you’re pedaling. You can also use the twist-grip throttle on the right handgrip without pedaling. In either operation mode, the electric power cuts out at 20 mph, which adheres to U.S. Class 2 e-bike regulations.
Several people thought the RadMini was an electric motorcycle and not an e-bike I used the RadMini’s throttle-only mode much more than pedal assistance. For those who want more exercise, and longer travel range per battery charge, the RadMini has a 7-speed Shimano gearset with a Shimano thumb-operated shifter. You can select from five pedaling power assistance levels via a handlebar-mounted LCD control panel. The RadMini uses a cadence sensor base on pedaling speed to supply extra power, based on the assist level you select from Level 1 (the least assistance) and Level 5 (the most assistance).
Whether you use the pedal-assist mode or throttle only, the power cuts out at 20 mph. Once you get up to speed you can theoretically pedal faster than 20 mph, but no power assistance is available until your speed dips below 20 mph.
Mini? Not so much The RadMini has a sturdy 6061 aluminum alloy frame. There are two folding locks mid-frame and at the base of the telescoping low-bar aluminum handlebar stem. However, the e-bike weighs 67 pounds including the 7.7-pound removable battery.
E-bikes are almost always heavier than conventional bicycle so regular bicycle racks don’t suffice. You can spend $250 to $600 or more on hitch-mounted e-bike racks, but it’s much more convenient to be able to fold the bike and put it in your car trunk or back seat or in the back of an SUV.
Rad Power Bikes RadMini fat tire folding e-bike folded Bruce Brown / Digital Trends Folding the RadMini is quick and easy. You first unlock a clamp and fold the middle of the frame so the tires are next to each other. Next, fold down the handlebar stem. An included Velcro strap keeps the pieces together so they won’t unfold while moving or carrying. You can also fold the Wellgo aluminum alloy pedals. With a bit of practice, you can fold the RadMini in about a minute.
Once the bike is folded, you can lift it to place it in your car or SUV. Bear in mind that the RadMini weighs 67 pounds, has knobby tires, and an exposed chain. I wouldn’t want to move it more than a few feet. Other folding e-bikes are lighter and easier to carry, such as the urban-focused Gocycle GX.
The RadMini is recommended for riders 5-foot-2-inches to 6-foot-2-inches. Total payload capacity, including people and whatever they wear or carry, is 275 pounds. I’m 5-foot-8-inches and could stand over the frame easily with my feet flat on the ground, although I adjusted the saddle above the minimum height so my legs would straighten fully on the rare occasions when I pedaled.
Fat tires steal the spotlight To operate the RadMini you insert and turn a key on the battery and then hold a power button on the backlit LCD control panel. The display shows the battery charge level, speed, miles traveled, and pedal assist level.
I appreciated the RadMini’s front and rear lights, which both run from the main battery. The front light has an ambient light sensor to increase the brightness at night. The rear light brightens when you apply the brakes.
Rad Power Bikes RadMini fat tire folding e-bike Bruce Brown / Digital Trends The RadMini rides 20-inch by 4-inch Kendra Krusade fat tires. These tires have a knobby tread but never felt rough riding on pavement. I rode 70% of the time on pavement and 30% on grass or sand, and the Kendras laughed at the surface changes, adding to my confidence in the e-bike’s handling.
There’s also a front suspension fork with rebound adjustment and 60 millimeters of travel. The Kendras have reflective sidewall striping that helps visibility (and looks cool, too).
The RadMini is truly an all-purpose electric bike. When I rode down a cobblestone street in our city I didn’t think much of it, but when I rode the same street on a Gocycle GX, a much lighter urban-focused folding bike with smooth street tires, the cobblestones played havoc. Other e-bikes with slim tires, like the Swagtron EB12 , have that same problem.
The Kendra fat tires laughed at surface changes, adding to my confidence in the e-bike’s handling You’ll find the mechanical disc brakes pull the bike to a stop quickly with a confident feel. These brakes are a good example of Rad’s choice of sturdy components that are totally adequate for their tasks and also keep the bike’s cost down.
Battery range is a concern with electric vehicles, though pedaling is an option here. To test the RadMini’s range, I rode as close to 20 mph using the throttle only on flat pavement over the course of three days. The battery finally quit supplying power at just over 28 miles. You’ll see better mileage if you do some pedaling yourself. Recharging takes 4 to 5 hours with the included 2 amp charger.
Our Take The RadMini is easy to ride with robust construction and suspension, brakes, and tires that give you the confidence to ride almost anywhere. It’s not the fastest e-bike, nor the lightest, and can’t carry the most cargo, but the RadMini can do everything well enough for most people. At $1,499 with free shipping to the lower 48 states, this bike is a bargain.
Is there a better alternative? If you explore folding e-bikes , you’ll see many that are tiny, and sold for as little as a few hundred dollars. You can also find lighter, more stylish folding e-bikes for urban use, such as the excellent 2019 Gocycle GX ($3,299) , that are light and easy to roll when folded and under your desk at work. Be prepared to shell out $2,800 to $4,500 for stylish urban folding e-bikes — and don’t think about taking them off-road.
The $1,699 2019 Blix Vika+ and $2,198 Electric Bike Technologies’s Electric Folding Bike are well-built folding e-bikes that weigh 10-to-12 pounds less than the RadMini which makes them somewhat easier to carry around. However, the Vika+ and the Electric Folding Bike cost more than the RadMini and ride on relatively narrow tires, 2-inches and 1.35-inches wide, respectively. If you want the smooth stability and the reassurance of the RadMini’s rugged construction, there is no better choice.
You may see folding e-bikes that appear to have similar features to the RadMini at lower prices, but when you read the specifications, they don’t measure up. Rad Power Bikes has an established enviable reputation so beware of knock-offs of questionable quality.
Our guide to the best electric bikes has recommendations for different e-bike styles.
How long will it last? The RadMini’s structural strength and brand name components should stand the test of time, rewarding riders for years. In addition to a comprehensive 1-year warranty, RadMini owners have access to live customer support in person, on the phone, and on-line at the company headquarters in Seattle seven days a week, from 9 A.M. to 5 P.M. Pacific Time.
Should you get one? Yes. If you are looking for an all-purpose e-bike for fun pretty much anywhere you want to take it, the RadMini is a smart buy.
Editors' Recommendations Rad Power Bikes’ new e-bike models boost accessibility and visibility Cars e-Bikes eBike Reviews Product Reviews Outdoors EcoFlow, a manufacturer of portable energy solutions, has announced the launch of the Delta 2 Max -- an eco-friendly solar generator that could replace your current gas generator. The device clocks in at 2,048 watts and should deliver enough power to keep your home running for two days as an emergency backup (or many more if you’re using it as an off-grid power source).
The original Delta Max was a popular item for outdoor adventures, as it could connect to the existing lineup of portable EcoFlow solar panels to juice up gadgets while out in the backcountry. That legacy continues with the Delta 2 Max, which features an upgraded lithium iron phosphate (LFP) battery for a longer life cycle and faster charging.
Outdoors Warm weather is here, and so is grilling season. Now is as good a time as any to set out in search of one of the best outdoor grills, and it’s never a bad time to keep an eye out for a discount on one as well. Whether you’re a grilling beginner ready for some burgers with the family or a seasoned pro looking to host summer gatherings around one of the best smart grills and smokers, we’ve tracked down all of the details you need to land a deal on a grill that’s right for your needs. Read onward for more details.
Everdure CUBE charcoal grill — $150, was $199 The Everdure CUBE charcoal grill is a unique little grill that can truly go almost anywhere with you. It’s lightweight and only 17-inches long, yet still can handle almost any grilling challenge a griller on the go could hope to throw at it. It has a built-in heat protection shield and chrome handles that remain cool while cooking, and the removable charcoal tray offers easy cleanup when you’re finished at the campground or on the beach. Wherever you intend to do some grilling this summer, the Everdure CUBE charcoal grill is a great option as a copilot.
Outdoors The best electric bikes have come a long way in recent years and we don't just mean in terms of the miles you travel. With technology changing quickly, there are also an increasing number of electric bike deals around and we've picked out some of the very best. Electric bikes are a great way of getting around more easily and without necessarily needing to use as much stamina as a regular bike. Below, you'll find fantastic e-bike bike deals from many different retailers. There'll be something for every need here. Let's take a look at them.
Jasion EB5 Electric Bike -- $430, was $750 With a 350w brushless motor, the Jasion EB5 Electric Bike can achieve a top speed of 20 MPH with a range of up to 25-40 miles per charge. It has four working modes with a PAS mode where the motor assists with a moderate amount of power as you pedal, along with a Pure Electric Mode, a Pedal Mode, and a Booster Mode where the bike assist on hills and anywhere else you might be struggling. 26-inch puncture-resistant tires provide excellent durability while there's a high-strength front fork suspension, Shimano 7-speed gears, dual lights, and an LCD display. The latter offers controls for adjustable backlight brightness with one of five levels, along with mode controls.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
