Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Outdoors Reviews 2020 Juiced Bikes Scorpion review: The Cadillac of e-mopeds By Bruce Brown Close $2,199.00 Best-in-class comfort Excellent value Standard rear rack and fenders Bright motorcycle-style LED headlamp Heavier than average If Juiced Bikes’ Scorpion is your first e-bike ride, you’ll be spoiled. There are many good things to say about the versatile moped-style Scorpion, but the first thing you’ll notice, especially if you’ve ridden other electric two-wheelers, is how smooth and comfortable it is to ride. The Scorpion is a Class 3 e-bike with a 28mph top speed, 45 miles maximum range per charge, and a $2,199 list price that’s frequently discounted by $200 to $400.
Why is it so comfortable? Our Take Is there a better alternative? How long will it last? Should you buy one? Why is it so comfortable? Four primary factors account for the Scorpion’s smooth ride: the seat, riding position, front and rear suspension, and standard 20-inch by 4-inch wide fat tires.
Harley-Davidson rides into the e-bike segment with Serial 1 subbrand Bosch Kiox and SmartphoneHub hands-on: The sleek displays e-bikes deserve Rad Power Bikes’ new e-bike models boost accessibility and visibility The Scorpion’s bulbous, firmly padded seat looks like what you’d find on a moped than a bicycle. It reminded me of the retro minibike-styled Juiced Bikes City Scrambler.
I found myself scooting all the way back on that seat for the greatest comfort, but isn’t necessary with the Scorpion, because its high handlebars and pedals allow an upright riding position that’s naturally comfortable. Sitting upright without a windshield will wear you out quickly at highway speeds on a motorcycle, but the Scorpion’s 28mph-ish top end, while perky for an e-bike, doesn’t cause wind-resistance fatigue.
The Scorpion also has front and rear suspensions. I left the adjustable front fork coil suspension with a hydraulic lockout in the default position. Many e-bikes have similar front forks, but rear suspensions are less common. The Scorpion’s spring-loaded swingarm rear suspension absorbed the jolts from curbs, driveway aprons, and speed bumps with aplomb.
Finally, the Scorpion’s puncture-resistant fat tires mounted on standard mag wheels have a 35-pounds-per-inch air pressure maximum, which I routinely dropped to about 26 to 28 pounds for riding mostly on smoothly paved streets. If you were going to ride the Scorpion on rougher terrain and take jumps, as shown in early Scorpion ads, it would be better to dial in the front suspension and run the tires hard. But I wasn’t jumping or going off the pavement (other than a few lawns), and I didn’t change the suspension settings or top off the tires.
I weigh 175 pounds. The Scorpion’s capacity, including rider and luggage, is 275 pounds, so different riders would likely adjust the suspension to suit their weight, riding style, and preferences. It’s good that the Scorpion has front and rear suspension, and even better, the suspension is adjustable.
Image used with permission by copyright holder There’s much, much more to like about the Scorpion other than its comfortable ride. The Scorpion has functional pedals with a Shimano 7-speed freewheel. You can pedal without electric power assistance, but this sturdy bike weighs in at 100 pounds even. Even if you remove the battery, you’re still moving 90 pounds. I tried pedaling to be sure I could do it, but I wouldn’t want to travel far or up hills.
The Scorpion’s electric powertrain consists of a Bafang 750-watt (1,300 watts peak) rear hub motor, a 13-Ah, 673-watt-hour, 52-volt, lithium-ion battery, and a 25-amp controller. This electric powertrain setup lets you travel up to 20mph with the throttle only, 28mph using the throttle and pedaling in Class 2 mode, and 28-30mph in Class 3 mode.
Pedal assistance with the Scorpion works via a 16-magnet cadence sensor and adds power proportional to the speed with which you pedal. There are several assistance modes selected via the Scorpion’s Matrix LCD. The top R mode unleashes the full electric assistance power even if you pedal very slowly — as long as you keep the pedals moving. The Scorpion has a twist-grip throttle similar to a motorcycle. You do need to pay attention that you don’t twist it accidentally when pushing the bike slowly — walking it into your garage, for example — because, like most electric vehicles, full torque kicks in immediately.
The Scorpion is equipped with 180mm hydraulic disc brakes front and rear, fenders, and a small luggage rack. In addition to side reflectors on the frame, the e-bike has a 2,000-lumen motorcycle-style LED headlamp plus an integrated LED rear light with brake lighting. A handy USB port near the left-hand grip allows you to plug in to charge a smartphone.
 Juiced Bikes doesn’t include mirrors on the Scorpion, so I added a set I keep for that purpose while testing. Mirrors are the only item not standard that I wish were included on the Scorpion, but Juice Bikes sells a pair the fits the bike for just $12. If I were to buy a Scorpion, I’d also pick up a set of panniers to carry extra gear and groceries or other purchases while running errands in town. The standard seat height is 30.9 inches, but Juiced Bikes also has a $49 tall seat option that raises the heat to 33.5 inches.
Our Take Image used with permission by copyright holder The Juiced Bikes Scorpion is an attractive, well-equipped, modern e-bike take on a retro moped style. The Scorpion is a product of Juiced Bikes, so you know it will emphasize performance, relative to other e-bikes anyway, but the Scorpion’s outstanding characteristic is rider comfort.
At 100 pounds with battery, the Scorpion is too much to carry up and down stairs every day comfortably, but the extra poundage is due to the e-bike’s confidence-inspiring ruggedness.
Is there a better alternative? Moped-style e-bikes are a relatively new category, the first of which was Rad Power Bikes’ RadRunner.
 The RadRunner is smaller, lighter, and slower, but at $1,199, it’s significantly less costly than the Scorpion. If you like the Scorpion’s retro look but would prefer a minibike frame format, Juiced Bikes’ City Scrambler ($1,799) is a good choice, as is the Super 73 S1 ($1,995). Neither the RadRunner nor the Super 73-S1 has front and rear suspensions.
If you like the Scorpion’s style but want a little more “juice,” the performance-upgraded HyperScorpion version ($3,499) has a custom 1,000-watt (1,700-watt peak) custom Bafang electric motor, 19.2 Ah battery, and a 33-amp controller. The HyperScorpion also includes mirrors, turn signals, and a combination cadence and torque sensor for pedal assist mode.
How long will it last? The Juiced Bikes Scorpion’s aluminum alloy frame and name-brand components lend assurance this bike will last for years. Juiced Bikes has a one-year warranty on electrical and mechanical components. During the first 30 days of the warranty period, the company pays shipping both ways for defective parts, but after 30 days, the customer pays for return shipping.
Should you buy one? Absolutely yes.
If you are looking for a sturdy Class 3 e-bike that’s exceptionally comfortable to ride, Juiced Bikes’ Scorpion is a speedy, versatile ride ready to serve as daily transportation.
Editors' Recommendations The best electric bikes for 2023 This inflatable, backpack-sized e-bike is the most ridiculous transport idea yet Blix drops e-bike prices in shift to selling exclusively online Electric Citi Bikes is returning to New York City with a price shake-up Spinciti’s Amsterdam e-bike offers speed and range at an affordable price e-Bikes eBike Reviews Product Reviews News Vintage Electric announced a limited-edition high-performance e-bike just ahead of the November 15, 2019, theater release of Ford v Ferrari. The film recounts the full-on effort by Carroll Shelby to build a Ford race car to take on Ferrari, the perennial winner of the 24 Hours of Le Mans in France in 1966. The Vintage Electric Shelby is a 36-mph e-bike with paint, finishes, and design details closely fashioned after the auto builder's personal 289 Cobra.
Introducing the Limited Edition Vintage Electric Shelby Bicycle Vintage Electric founder and lead designer Andrew Davidge consulted with Aaron Shelby, the auto legend's grandson, while developing the limited edition. Inspired by the 289 Cobra, the Vintage Electric Shelby has matching blue metallic N6 paint with matte black racing stripes, the Shelby logo, and Cobra badging.
Outdoors When I reviewed the Propella 2.2 ebike earlier in the year, I thought it was a fun commuter. While I wasn't overly impressed with its range and component set, I did feel that the 2.2 was a lightweight and affordable option for those looking to jump into the ebike market.
Fast forward a few months, and Propella has introduced an updated 3.0 version, which brings some nice refinements to a solid product.
Outdoors Chula Vista, California-based Juiced Bikes announced the Scorpion, a retro moped-style e-bike with a 28 mph top speed and a riding range of 45 to 75 miles. Equipped with front and rear suspension, hydraulic disc brakes, and puncture-resistant 20 x 4-inch fat street tires, the Scorpion is available for pre-order beginning today.
All New SCORPION from Juiced Bikes Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
