Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Outdoors 2020 Rad Power Bikes RadRunner: Build it your way High on value and utility, the Radrunner is easy to ride and customize By Bruce Brown Close $1,299.00 Excellent value Designed to be customized Step-thru frame easy to mount Great customer support Easy to ride The optional carrier console's cup and phone holders are a bit too small Ride can be a bit rough Rad Power Bikes ‘ moped-style RadRunner exemplifies the company’s vision for electric bikes. When Rad designed the RadRunner , every decision, including features to build in and those to leave out, was based on two principles. Value, and utility.
What features made the cut? What’s missing and why? Build it your way Riding the RadRunner Our Take The RadRunner’s basics are, well, pretty basic. It’s a single geared Class 2 e-bike with four pedal-assist levels and a motorcycle-style half-twist throttle. The e-bike’s top speed with power assistance is 20 miles per hour, limited by the RadRunner’s 750-watt controller because of U.S. restrictions.
Image used with permission by copyright holder The RadRunner’s battery is good for 25 to 45 miles or more travel range, depending on passenger and cargo weight, speed, road surface, incline, weather, and more. The removable battery weighs 7.7 pounds, and can be charged on or off the bike.
Stepping down to the next level of granularity, the RadRunner has a 750-watt Bafang geared hub motor on the rear wheel hub. The motor puts out 80 Newton-meters (the equivalent of 59 pound-feet of torque). Like all e-bikes, the torque is available immediately as soon as you start pedaling or twist the throttle. The bike’s charger can fully charge the battery from empty in five to six hours.
What features made the cut? The RadRunner has Tektro mechanical disc brakes front and rear, an adjustable moped-style seat, and adjustable aluminum 10-inch rise handlebars. The aluminum-framed e-bike has an integrated rear rack, a dual-leg kickstand, and fat 20-inch by 3.3-inch tires. The semi-knobby pneumatic tires are Kenda K-Rads, built exclusively for Rad Power Bikes with a K-Shield puncture-resistant liner and high-visibility reflective striping on both sides.
Both the RadRunner’s LED headlight and the integrated rear taillight with brake light and flash mode connect directly to the main battery, so you don’ t have to worry about replacing batteries individually. There’s an intuitive LED display by the left hand-grip that shows battery charge level, pedal assist level, and whether the lights are turned on.
What’s missing and why? From the outset, Rad intended that the RadRunner would fill the role of the brand’s entry-level ebike, which meant the price needed to be less than the already low $1,499 the company charges for its other models. The RadRunner’s $1,299 regular price includes free shipping, although right now, the price is $1,199 while supplies last during an end-of-year sale. That’s resulted in some compromises.
Because the RadRunner’s shape and size are not in the conventional bicycle or mountain bike style, Rad opted for a single-speed derailleur. The RadRunner is surprisingly easy to pedal, but there’s just one speed unless you use electric pedal assistance.
You’ll start to feel beat up if riding on rough roads.
The RadRunner has a rigid front fork and no rear suspension. The Kenda fat tires help soften the ride, especially if you run them a bit under their maximum air pressure. Even though the RadRunner has semi-knobby rubber. Still, you’ll start to feel beat up if riding on rough roads.
The LED display doesn’t show current speed, or miles traveled, either.
So, multiple gearing speeds, suspension, and a more informative display are off the RadRunner’s spec sheet because Rad figured the target buyer wouldn’t miss them and didn’t need them for a utility e-bike if the trade-offs helped keep the cost low.
Build it your way Rad Power Bike’s vision of utility for the RadRunner includes a high level of customization potential. By Rad’s count, there are 330 accessory combinations available from the company.
RadRunner customers can upfit the e-bike to best conform to their definition of utility with accessory selections. The accessory list includes fenders, gear racks, boxes, and bags, but the two most interesting RadRunner add-ons are the Passenger Package and Center Console. Rad has pending patents for those last two accessories, and we asked for both for our test bike.
The RadRunner Center Console takes away the easy-mounting of the step-through frame but adds a 12-liter capacity water-resistant storage compartment handy for picking up the mail or a few groceries. You could also use it to carry a notebook computer, a helmet, a few books, and an extra sweater or jacket.
The removable console top stays in place with three stretchable rubber cords. The console top has a cup holder and a smartphone compartment with an elastic strap. Most half-liter water bottles will fit in the cup holder, but the coffee cup in the photo below didn’t slide all the way down. The iPhone X in a case shown below fit the holder perfectly, but my Note 8 was just a bit too wide.
The Center Console is a $99 option. Installation is a matter of removing and reinstalling four screw bolts from the RadRunner’s frame, a process that shouldn’t take more than a couple of minutes unless, ahem, you drop the bolts.
Installing the RadRunner Passenger Package, another $99 accessory, takes a bit more time to install than the Center Console. A helpful video breaks down the passenger kit installation step-by-step.
The package includes a comfortable passenger seat that fits on top of the rear, a pair of retractable footpegs, and clear protective wheel skirts. It took less than 30 minutes to install the three components, including the time to read the documentation and watch the video.
The passenger seat is roughly 18-inches long x 7-inches wide x 3.5-inches high. The retractable footpegs mount high enough on the frame so a passenger can reach them easily and not have to hang their legs. The wheel skirts prevent passengers’ shoes or shoelaces from getting caught in the wheel spokes.
Image used with permission by copyright holder The RadRunner’s standard adjustable saddle conforms to the front of the passenger seat. You might otherwise position the saddle higher for pedaling comfort, but with the passenger seat you can slide back for a much more comfortable ride — as long as you leave enough room when you carry a passenger.
The passenger package was a total win, while I’d give the center console slight ding for its just-barely-too-small cup and phone holders.
Riding the RadRunner The RadRunner isn’t a high-performance e-bike, but it’s easy and fun to ride. The pedal assist levels and throttle won’t power the e-bike faster than 20 mph, but without a speed display, you don’t know how fast you’re going until the electric assistance cuts out.
When the assistance stops, it stops abruptly but then cuts right back in if your speed drops. You could theoretically pedal fast enough to exceed 20 mph, but this e-bike’s single-speed gearing doesn’t encourage it.
The RadRunner may be the perfect e-bike for new riders looking for a versatile micromobility solution with a low entry cost I rode the RadRunner primarily on pavement and sidewalks. When I rode on grass or over driveway entrance curbs at first, the ride felt overly harsh. After I dropped the tire pressure about five pounds, however, the ride was comfortable, but I still wouldn’t want to ride it off-road on any regular basis.
I didn’t notice a change in the RadRunner’s responsiveness or power while the passenger was on the back, although I also rode more carefully and didn’t lean as much going around corners.
Our Take The RadRunner is a surprising electric bike. It makes compromises to reach its low price point, yet it has unique customization features that aren’t available on most electric bikes at any price.
This unique combination of customization and affordable pricing is what puts the RadRunner into the upper echelon of electric bikes. It’s a great way to get around town.
Is there a better alternative? Nothing currently on the market at the RadRunner’s price level beats its value, and versatility, or its availability. Moped-style e-bikes have become a thing, however, and there are two pair of moped-style e-bikes from two other companies on the way. The first pair is Juiced Bikes ‘ Scorpion and more powerful HyperScorpion e-bikes, currently on pre-order status with shipments scheduled to begin in April.
Both Juiced models are Class 3 e-bikes with 28 mph and 35 mph top speeds, respectively. The Scorpion lists for $2,199 (currently on sale for $1,399 for pre-orders) and the Hyperscorpion costs $3,499, ($2.099 for pre-orders).
Monday Motorbikes also has two Moped-style e-bike models soon to appear in an Indiegogo crowdfunding campaign, with delivery also planned for April 2020. The Monday Motorbike Gateway and Gateway Booster e-bikes are Class 2-rated models with $2,399 and $3,499 list prices.
How long will it last? Rad Power Bikes may not use high-end components, but they make solid bikes built on 6061 aluminum frames with brand name components. The RadRunner’s single-speed gearing and lack of suspension mean there are fewer parts to fail. Maintenance will also be easier without those components. Rad Power Bikes come with a one-year limited warranty, but there’s no reason not to expect the RadRunner to last for years. The only maintenance will likely be for the disc brakes, the chain, and tires and tubes.
Should you buy one? Yes. If you want a fun, easy-to-ride electric bike you can customize to your needs, the RadRunner is an excellent choice.
Editors' Recommendations Rad Power Bikes’ new e-bike models boost accessibility and visibility Cars e-Bikes eBike Reviews Product Reviews Outdoors EcoFlow, a manufacturer of portable energy solutions, has announced the launch of the Delta 2 Max -- an eco-friendly solar generator that could replace your current gas generator. The device clocks in at 2,048 watts and should deliver enough power to keep your home running for two days as an emergency backup (or many more if you’re using it as an off-grid power source).
The original Delta Max was a popular item for outdoor adventures, as it could connect to the existing lineup of portable EcoFlow solar panels to juice up gadgets while out in the backcountry. That legacy continues with the Delta 2 Max, which features an upgraded lithium iron phosphate (LFP) battery for a longer life cycle and faster charging.
Outdoors Warm weather is here, and so is grilling season. Now is as good a time as any to set out in search of one of the best outdoor grills, and it’s never a bad time to keep an eye out for a discount on one as well. Whether you’re a grilling beginner ready for some burgers with the family or a seasoned pro looking to host summer gatherings around one of the best smart grills and smokers, we’ve tracked down all of the details you need to land a deal on a grill that’s right for your needs. Read onward for more details.
Everdure CUBE charcoal grill — $150, was $199 The Everdure CUBE charcoal grill is a unique little grill that can truly go almost anywhere with you. It’s lightweight and only 17-inches long, yet still can handle almost any grilling challenge a griller on the go could hope to throw at it. It has a built-in heat protection shield and chrome handles that remain cool while cooking, and the removable charcoal tray offers easy cleanup when you’re finished at the campground or on the beach. Wherever you intend to do some grilling this summer, the Everdure CUBE charcoal grill is a great option as a copilot.
Outdoors The best electric bikes have come a long way in recent years and we don't just mean in terms of the miles you travel. With technology changing quickly, there are also an increasing number of electric bike deals around and we've picked out some of the very best. Electric bikes are a great way of getting around more easily and without necessarily needing to use as much stamina as a regular bike. Below, you'll find fantastic e-bike bike deals from many different retailers. There'll be something for every need here. Let's take a look at them.
Jasion EB5 Electric Bike -- $430, was $750 With a 350w brushless motor, the Jasion EB5 Electric Bike can achieve a top speed of 20 MPH with a range of up to 25-40 miles per charge. It has four working modes with a PAS mode where the motor assists with a moderate amount of power as you pedal, along with a Pure Electric Mode, a Pedal Mode, and a Booster Mode where the bike assist on hills and anywhere else you might be struggling. 26-inch puncture-resistant tires provide excellent durability while there's a high-strength front fork suspension, Shimano 7-speed gears, dual lights, and an LCD display. The latter offers controls for adjustable backlight brightness with one of five levels, along with mode controls.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
