Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Outdoors Bulls E-Stream EVO FS 2 27.5 Plus Review: Conquer tarmac and dirt with equal ease By Mitchell Nicholson Close Adjustable front and rear suspension Dual sprockets for versatility Smooth and powerful Brose electric motor Clean and simple design Long battery life Suspension only offers 120mm of travel Finicky battery removal Mountain biking is surrounded by more machismo than a UFC title fight. Hitting the biggest gaps, down the steepest inclines, and barreling through the tightest berms are all ways to prove that you’ve got the guts to tackle the beast that is “the mountain.” But what if you don’t have anything to prove? What if want to trade machismo for fun? Then you might like the Bulls E-Stream EVO FS 2 27.5 Plus.
What is it? Travel for fun Brake with confidence Putting the power down Two Wheeled Brute Warranty Information Our Take What is it? The E-Stream EVO FS 2 is a mountain e-bike of all trades. It has all the makings of a serious mountain bike with full suspension and lockout, 180mm hydraulic disc brakes, wide 27.5+ tires, and Shimano Deore shifters and derailleurs. However, the E-Stream EVO FS 2 makes a few compromises to keep the price down.
Travel for fun The fork on the E-Stream EVO FS 2 is an SR Suntour XCR-32 RLR Air 27.5, with a 15mm thru-axle and 120mm of travel. The air shocks mean less missing with maintenance, and the thru-axle allows for more positive feel on braking while stiffening up the front end for better agility. The rear shock is the SR Suntour Epicon-LO D, an air shock with 120mm of travel.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Both the front and rear have rebound adjustments and lockouts that are used to stiffen the frame. The lockouts are great when making your way up hills or pounding out paved miles. Locking the suspension keeps your pedal power going to straight to the ground instead of soaked up by the suspension, which helps preserve battery life and your legs.
The Suntour setup also spares your wallet some pain. The suspension travel is enough for most riding but could meet its limit on the most demanding trails. Still, the E-Stream EVO FS 2 handled my trail riding with ease. You’d have to push the bike very hard to overcome the suspension. You’ll want to look elsewhere if you’re hoping to compete in the X Games, but less serious riders are unlikely to encounter this bike’s limits.
Brake with confidence You’re brought to a stop by 180mm Tektro hydraulic disc brakes on the front and rear. They feel confident in panicky moments. Good brakes aren’t worth a dime if they don’t have a quality set of tires to match. Thankfully, Bulls chose Schwalbe Smart Sams, which are not only capable in the dirt, but also mind their manners on the paved stuff. With meaty outer-edge lugs and a solid central rib, the Schwalbe Smart Sam is big enough to scramble through the loam but nimble enough to maneuver through trees.
Shimano’s Deore derailleurs and shifter set manage the gears. They do the job without complaint, but the real headliner is Shimano’s Shadow Plus clutch mechanism. This clutch stops the chain from flying wild during hard riding. It’s a great feature, though I would ideally like control over it, so I could turn it off when riding on pavement.
Putting the power down Also worthy of praise is the 20-gear setup that’s made possible by the two main sprockets. Two main sprockets on an e-bike isn’t common, as most electric motors not being able to cope with the varying torque inputs. This bike’s Brose motor handles the variability beautifully, however, with smooth power output at every level. That’s not because it’s lacking for power, either. With 90Nm of torque on tap, this wolf in sheep’s clothing will have you wheelieing for days if you want.
Image used with permission by copyright holder That’s why it’s nice to be able to dial power back with eco, tour or sport modes. Sport was my obvious favorite for trudging up hills, but switching to Eco will get you close to the 137-mile claimed “optimal” range. In our time with the bike, through some moderate hill climbs, it was able to last a full day of riding with juice left to spare. On the technical side, we were able to squeeze 45 miles out of the battery, with the motor on the highest power setting, on flat pavement.
I did notice a slight metallic noise when pedaling on tarmac at approximately 18 miles per hour or higher. The sound only occurred at high speeds and was most likely caused by an overdue tune up on the well-worn demo we used for testing.
Two Wheeled Brute Though our E-Stream EVO FS 2 was a bit worse for wear, it still shined by showing off that it could take a beating. For example, its nicked display still worked without fault after being dropped. By minimizing the size of the display, Bulls lessened the likelihood of it getting broken in the event of a crash, which shows they were thinking about the long-term viability of the bike and not just how it would look in the showroom. The display is simple, showing only your speed and selected power setting, but it also makes provisions for additional devices with a micro USB port for GPS or phone charging.
Image used with permission by copyright holder The minimalist theme continues through the rest of the bike with a clean aesthetic and a tucked away battery. The matte black and hi-viz finish give the E-Stream EVO FS 2 a brutal beauty that turned heads everywhere we took it.
What wasn’t quite as sleek was the clunky nature of how the battery pulls out. Once unlocked, be sure to have your hand in place to catch the battery, because it will drop out of the bottom of the frame. Then there’s the interesting fact that if you leave the key in the lock you could easily shear it off, because the pedal gets in the way. These issues are avoided if you charge the battery while it’s still on the bike, which is easier anyway.
On the other hand, you’ll want to remove the battery if you need to haul this bike up a set of stairs. With an aluminum frame you’d expect lower weight, but at 55 pounds, the E-Stream EVO FS 2 has some heft.
Warranty Information All Bulls e-bikes come with a 2-year warranty on the drive unit and battery, 5-year warranty on the frame, and 1-year warranty on other components excluding wear-and-tear parts.
Our Take The E-Stream EVO FS 2 is a jack-of-all-trades. Bulls made a few compromises to keep the price reasonable at $3,999. Still, this is an incredibly fun bike that tracks well, has a great motor, long lasting battery, and looks tough as nails.
Is there a better alternative? There are certainly comparable e-bikes, like Giants Full E+ or the Specialized Turbo Levo FSR , but the 20 speeds on the E-Stream EVO FS 2 make it unique and worth consideration in the all-rounder category.
How long will it last? Bulls has gone to lengths to make the E-Stream EVO FS 2 as bulletproof as possible with its minimal display, tucked away battery, and padding for the electric motor. But the longevity of the E-Stream EVO FS 2 will depend on the conditions it’s ridden through, coupled with the regular bike maintenance you’d typically expect.
Should you buy it? Yes. The Bull E-Stream EVO FS 2 27.5 Plus is as suited for roaming neighborhood as it is for conquering a trail.
Cars Emerging Tech e-Bikes eBike Reviews Emerging Tech Product Reviews Outdoors EcoFlow, a manufacturer of portable energy solutions, has announced the launch of the Delta 2 Max -- an eco-friendly solar generator that could replace your current gas generator. The device clocks in at 2,048 watts and should deliver enough power to keep your home running for two days as an emergency backup (or many more if you’re using it as an off-grid power source).
The original Delta Max was a popular item for outdoor adventures, as it could connect to the existing lineup of portable EcoFlow solar panels to juice up gadgets while out in the backcountry. That legacy continues with the Delta 2 Max, which features an upgraded lithium iron phosphate (LFP) battery for a longer life cycle and faster charging.
Outdoors Warm weather is here, and so is grilling season. Now is as good a time as any to set out in search of one of the best outdoor grills, and it’s never a bad time to keep an eye out for a discount on one as well. Whether you’re a grilling beginner ready for some burgers with the family or a seasoned pro looking to host summer gatherings around one of the best smart grills and smokers, we’ve tracked down all of the details you need to land a deal on a grill that’s right for your needs. Read onward for more details.
Everdure CUBE charcoal grill — $150, was $199 The Everdure CUBE charcoal grill is a unique little grill that can truly go almost anywhere with you. It’s lightweight and only 17-inches long, yet still can handle almost any grilling challenge a griller on the go could hope to throw at it. It has a built-in heat protection shield and chrome handles that remain cool while cooking, and the removable charcoal tray offers easy cleanup when you’re finished at the campground or on the beach. Wherever you intend to do some grilling this summer, the Everdure CUBE charcoal grill is a great option as a copilot.
Outdoors The best electric bikes have come a long way in recent years and we don't just mean in terms of the miles you travel. With technology changing quickly, there are also an increasing number of electric bike deals around and we've picked out some of the very best. Electric bikes are a great way of getting around more easily and without necessarily needing to use as much stamina as a regular bike. Below, you'll find fantastic e-bike bike deals from many different retailers. There'll be something for every need here. Let's take a look at them.
Jasion EB5 Electric Bike -- $430, was $750 With a 350w brushless motor, the Jasion EB5 Electric Bike can achieve a top speed of 20 MPH with a range of up to 25-40 miles per charge. It has four working modes with a PAS mode where the motor assists with a moderate amount of power as you pedal, along with a Pure Electric Mode, a Pedal Mode, and a Booster Mode where the bike assist on hills and anywhere else you might be struggling. 26-inch puncture-resistant tires provide excellent durability while there's a high-strength front fork suspension, Shimano 7-speed gears, dual lights, and an LCD display. The latter offers controls for adjustable backlight brightness with one of five levels, along with mode controls.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
