Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Outdoors Gazelle Ultimate T10 review: The best commuter ebike Exclusive: Gazelle's Ultimate T10 is an electric bike that makes you look twice By Matthew S. Smith Close $3,799.00 Award-winning design Comfortable ride Smooth power delivery Excellent brakes Includes lights, fenders, and more Modest LCD screen No smart connectivity Most electric bikes look a mess, but not the Gazelle Ultimate T10. It’s a stunner, and the best commuter bike I’ve seen yet.
Great ride Don’t crush it, just cruise Our take Available in white or red, the Ultimate T10 ebike takes an unexpected road towards beauty. Instead of obscuring bulk with elegant lines, as does the Specialized Como , Gazelle built a bike that turns warts into beauty marks. Don’t just take my word for it. The bike is a 2020 iF Design Award winner.
Harley-Davidson rides into the e-bike segment with Serial 1 subbrand Bosch Kiox and SmartphoneHub hands-on: The sleek displays e-bikes deserve The Karmic Oslo looks like an eibike Apple would design and build It starts with the shape. Step-through frames don’t get hearts racing, but this bike uses its hefty, utilitarian downtube to ground the entire design. The blacked-out battery pack, smack in the center of the bike, contrasts with the frame’s bright red or white paint. It reminds me of the covers that dress up engine bays in modern sports cars. The same blacked-out look extends to the front fork, chain guard, and rear rack, tying the whole design together.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Still, it’s hard to argue with results. The Ultimate T10’s retail price of $3,799 is expensive, but not quite enough to guarantee a gorgeous bike. Even the most premium Pedgeo City Commuter looks a bore next to the Ultimate T10, while price competitive bikes from Trek and Giant have battery bumps that look like alien eggs growing from the frame.
Only Specialized can hope to compete on looks within this budget, but I still give Gazelle’s new bike the edge.
Here’s the real trick; the bike’s design is functional. The Ultimate T10 looks amazing yet doesn’t ditch features essential for a commuter. It comes standard with both lights and fenders front and rear, a rear rack, and a chain guard. The gang’s all here.
As a bonus, the Ultimate T10 has an integrated Axa Defender ring lock. It’s mounted to the frame and can be used to lock out the rear wheel, making the bike impossible to ride. You’ll still want a lock that secures the bike to a rack or another study object, but the integrated lock is a nice backup.
Great ride The standard equipment list, along with the step-through design, make this bike’s purpose clear. The Gazelle Ultimate T10 is a commuter, and it makes no apologies for that.
That means a relaxed, upright seating posture. It’s so upright that I found it uncomfortable at first. My instincts told me to lean forward, which meant the handlebars were too close. Eventually, I learned to lean back and enjoy the ride.
And it’s a superb ride. A lot of credit goes to the front fork’s integrated suspension. The bike’s design hides it, but it’s there, lending some cushion between you and the road.
Image used with permission by copyright holder This isn’t mountain bike suspension, so it’s not going to save your wrists if you drop off a curb. Still, it’s enough to absorb most bumps you’ll find. My usual route to the Digital Trends office has several tracts of rough pavement that can deliver bone-rattling impacts. The Ultimate T10 smoothed over those potholes with ease.
I even loved the saddle, a word of praise I rarely offer. It felt perfect for this bike. Wide enough to offer a lot of support, but not wide enough to interfere when it came time to crank out some watts. It’s the most comfortable stock saddle on any electric bike I’ve reviewed.
Don’t crush it, just cruise A Bosch Performance Line Cruise motor powers the Gazelle Ultimate T10 up to 20 miles per hour, after which it cuts out. It does indeed cruise. The motor’s power delivery is balanced and gradual even at the highest of three power assist levels.
Want to go fast? This isn’t the bike for you. The motor isn’t for speed freaks looking to mix it up with city traffic, something that’s possible on a Specialized Como or Vado. It’s for commuters biking across town at a reasonable pace.
Image used with permission by copyright holder It works for that purpose. I preferred Eco Mode, the least powerful assist setting. The power’s just enough to provide a boost, but not so much that I didn’t get a workout. Eco Mode also makes the most of the integrated PowerTube 500 battery which, in my experience, lasted about 60 miles on a charge. Switching to Sport Mode, the most aggressive, dropped range to about 35 miles.
Power is delivered through 10-speed Shimano XT hardware. It felt adequate to the task. Shifts were occasionally clunky, but ultimately reliable. I had no problem with missed shifts, or shifts occurring when I hadn’t asked for them.
The groupset also includes front and rear hydraulic disc brakes that swiftly bring the bike to a stop. I was also impressed by the brake handles. They always felt right underhand and actuated with great tactile feedback. It’s a small thing that made me more comfortable bombing down Portland’s steepest hills.
Image used with permission by copyright holder I was less impressed by the black-and-white LCD that displays speed and battery life. It’s backlit, but not as large as I’d like, a problem that’s all too common on modern electric bikes.
 There’s also no support for an app to track miles, speed, or battery status.
Our take The $3,799 Gazelle Ultimate T10 is pricey, but a solid value. This is a complete, all-in-one solution to daily commuting, and the best commuter ebike I’ve tested. Range, power, ride, lights, fenders, rack, even an integrated lock – this bike has it all right out of the box. Plus, it looks fantastic, which helps justify the price to your friends.
Is there a better alternative? Every major brand offers a competitor.
Specialized has the Como , Trek offers the Quick E+, and Trek has the Super Commuter. All three are solid bikes you’d likely enjoy, but the Gazelle is the most complete package for commuters.
How long will it last? Gazelle offers a strong 10-year warranty on the frame, while the front fork is covered by a five-year warranty. There’s also a five-year warranty on paint for the frame and front fork. Other parts are covered by a two-year warranty.
Electric bikes require regular maintenance, though that shouldn’t cost more than a couple hundred dollars per year. The battery will eventually degrade after three to five years, and a replacement will be your most significant cost. Otherwise, the bike should last a decade or more.
Should you buy it? Yes. The Gazelle Ultimate T10 is the ultimate commuter ebike.
Editors' Recommendations The best electric bikes for 2023 The best mountain bikes Propella 3.0 ebike review: Cheap thrills Gocycle’s new GXi electric bike can fold away in a mere 10 seconds Specialized’s new road ebike will cure your range anxiety for good Cars Emerging Tech e-Bikes eBike Reviews Emerging Tech Product Reviews Deals Looking for an environmentally-friendly way to get around, but would rather have something more exciting to ride than a bike? An electric scooter or electric skateboard might be a great alternative. They're far more portable than even the smallest foldable bike, and are great for shorter commutes and trips. We've found some great deals at Amazon, Best Buy, and Walmart which we'd like to share with you. You might also want to check out our list of the best electric bike deals we posted quite recently before making a final decision on which electric mobility option you'll buy.
Generally, electric scooters and skateboards are cheaper than electric bikes. While they are also generally slower and have a shorter range, you'll still get the great benefits of electrification, including a longer range than you might have using a traditional scooter or skateboard. Plus you won't have to worry about bringing a change of clothes, since you'll be expending a whole lot less energy.
Electric Scooters Deals Looking for a more environmentally friendly way to get around? An electric bike is a great way to do just that. While of course riding a bike is the option that's best for fitness, there are also limits to its range. Unless you're really fit, you won't get far, and who wants to show up at work a sweaty mess? If you're looking for a different type of mobility for your commute check out these great electric scooter and electric skateboard deals.
Electric bikes can take a variety of forms, many looking like a traditional bike, while others are foldable. The latter option allows you to store the bike away just about anywhere, and with additional space in some offices at a premium, that's a very attractive option.We have a ton of deals on both traditional as well as folding electric bikes that we recently uncovered on Walmart which we think you should check out. As always, we recommend you act fast as these sales often come and go quickly. Let's get started.
Folding Electric Bikes Outdoors Previous Next Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
