Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Outdoors Haibike Sduro FullSeven 7.0 Review: More than its parts By Mitchell Nicholson Close $4,699.00 Geometry is great for all-day riding Smooth power output Middling components come together well It looks awesome Battery not easily removable Heavy for its category When I got the news that I’d be reviewing the Haibike Sduro FullSeven 7.0 for a full month, my first thought was that the name was way too long (like so many other E-MTBs before it. I’m looking at you Bulls E-Stream EVO FS ).
Spec Sheet Round Up Powered by Bosch Plenty of Juice Heavy Is Putting It Lightly Warranty information Our take Then I pulled up a photo, and realized I’d be riding one of the best looking e-bikes I’d ever seen. With a beautifully slim and fully-integrated battery and motor, the full-suspension FullSeven 7.0 is definitely a looker.
Looks can be deceiving, though, and with some quasi-budget-oriented components I was concerned it wouldn’t be able to live up to its aesthetic and that all-important price tag of $4,699.
Somehow, the FullSeven 7.0 changed my entire outlook on full-suspension e-bikes, and left me with a mud-covered grin I still can’t get rid of.
Spec Sheet Round Up What is the FullSeven 7.0? It sits in Haibike’s Sduro line, which is less aggressive than the Xduro line. In a nutshell, and without getting too technical, that pertains to the geometry of the bike. By having the head tube angle a little more upright, and the chain stays a little longer, the FullSeven 7.0 offers more comfort for the ride to the trail in lieu of being completely downhill-focused.
Still, the FullSeven 7.0 is capable when it comes to crushing trails. It just leans more toward comfort than the extreme geometry of the Xduro line.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Initially, I was a little underwhelmed. The parts and pieces that make up the FullSeven 7.0 aren’t upper echelon. Suntour forks and a Rock Shox Deluxe rear shock offer up 120mm of travel and can handle the bike’s extra weight, but aren’t envy-inducing. Tektro hydraulic brakes with 203mm discs in the front and 180mm in the back are fully capable of bringing things to a stop in a hurry. The Sram NX line drivetrain with an 11-42 cassette is a workhorse that won’t need updating. All of this is just fine. But given the bike’s price, I expected more exotic hardware in one or two areas.
That said, I was impressed with what the FullSeven 7.0 did with its practical setup. In fact, it performs incredibly well.
Powered by Bosch Most of that performance comes from the Bosch CX 250-watt motor with 75Nm of torque driven through the 11-42 cassette. That cassette gives the gears range for serious cruising and climbing, but it’s the smoothness of the Bosch CX that’s the star of the power delivery show.
I had some complaints with the Bosch CX motor on a different e-bike , but Haibike’s unique extra pulley design seems to smooth out the power delivery. When we asked Haibike about their non-standard chainring set up, Leif Fleming with Alta Cycling, Haibike’s North American distributor, told us that the pulley was designed to “lessen or equalize” the forces the motor applies to the cassette.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Electric motors apply a good deal of torque, quickly, to the bicycle drivetrain components and can cause accelerated wear on the chain (stretch, and wear on the cassette. The Haibike setup should less that effect, and it also seems to result in smoother, more natural power delivery.
This thoughtful design shows Haibike has the experience to build a product that goes beyond what off-the-shelf parts offer. A chief complaint with e-bikes, especially E-MTBs with all the climbing they do, is that the extra torque wears out parts prematurely. Sudden power delivery can also feel awkward in delicate situations. Haibike went the extra mile to solve that problem, and it gives the FullSeven 7.0 an edge over many bikes in this category and price range.
Plenty of Juice The FullSeven 7.0 has a 500Wh battery and will let you cruise at 20 MPH easily, making quick work of the road to your next off-road destination. Helping preserve battery life are full lock outs on the forks and rear shock, helping to stiffen the bike up and make the most of every watt used.
In my experience, cranking the FullSeven 7.0 up to Turbo mode and hitting nothing but hills, I managed about 25 miles per charge. In Eco mode, riding on a mixture of trails and flat, I saw a battery-sipping 60 miles per charge. Haibike doesn’t provide any estimated ranges due to the obvious differences in riding style, locations and rider weight, but the performance we saw was in line with other e-bikes of similar capacity.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Thankfully, keeping an eye battery life is easy with the Bosch Purion display that, while not all that advanced, is straightforward and easy to use. I dowish it had a tripmeter, cadence, and estimated range, like the display on this Giant Toughroad , but no such luck.
Located right next to the display is the remote dropper for the seat post. That’s a high-end feature that makes the FullSeven 7.0 package a little sweeter.
Heavy Is Putting It Lightly Not quite as sweet is the bike’s weight. Those vaguely-budget components and large battery make for a bike that may prove too heavy to throw into the back of a truck for some, as our large-size bike weighed in at 55.4 pounds. I’ve hauled heavier, but many bikes in this category are a bit lighter.
I was hoping I could take off the battery to help lighten the load, but the FullSeven 7.0 utilizes Bosch’s PowerTube setup. It keeps the design slim and cohesive, but is a bit of a pain to remove. That means the estimated charging times of 1.5 hours for 50% to full, and 3.5 hours from 0% to full, will happen with the battery in the bike. You’ll need a convenient power outlet in the space your store the bike.
Warranty information Haibike offers a five year warranty on the frame, with one year on Haibike branded or non-branded components. There’s also one year on the battery and two years on the motor.
Our take The FullSeven 7.0 is aimed at newer riders looking for a capable E-MTB with a great base set up that can be improved on in the long run. With frame geometry that offers great all-day riding and a collaboration of components that performs exceedingly well, the FullSeven 7.0 shows how far the E-MTB industry has come in terms of pushing limits and what it allows the average rider to tackle. As an added bonus, it happens to be one of the better looking bikes on the market today.
Is there a better alternative? If you’re interested in a bike with an even longer name, the FullSeven 7.0 LT comes with 30mm more suspension travel, and it’s currently on sale for $3,999.
Want more options? Check our favorite electric bikes of 2019.
How long will it last? Longer than most E-MTBs, because of the extra pulley setup that Haibike utilizes for their main chainrings.
Our bike arrived with the speed sensor broken off, which could happen to any bike, but it does serve as a reminder that more parts can lead to more opportunities for failure. An ebike will need more maintenance than a conventional bicycle.
Should you buy it? Yes. The FullSeven 7.0 is an awesome entry into serious mountain ebikes.
Cars Emerging Tech Health & Fitness eBike Reviews Emerging Tech Product Reviews Outdoors EcoFlow, a manufacturer of portable energy solutions, has announced the launch of the Delta 2 Max -- an eco-friendly solar generator that could replace your current gas generator. The device clocks in at 2,048 watts and should deliver enough power to keep your home running for two days as an emergency backup (or many more if you’re using it as an off-grid power source).
The original Delta Max was a popular item for outdoor adventures, as it could connect to the existing lineup of portable EcoFlow solar panels to juice up gadgets while out in the backcountry. That legacy continues with the Delta 2 Max, which features an upgraded lithium iron phosphate (LFP) battery for a longer life cycle and faster charging.
Outdoors Warm weather is here, and so is grilling season. Now is as good a time as any to set out in search of one of the best outdoor grills, and it’s never a bad time to keep an eye out for a discount on one as well. Whether you’re a grilling beginner ready for some burgers with the family or a seasoned pro looking to host summer gatherings around one of the best smart grills and smokers, we’ve tracked down all of the details you need to land a deal on a grill that’s right for your needs. Read onward for more details.
Everdure CUBE charcoal grill — $150, was $199 The Everdure CUBE charcoal grill is a unique little grill that can truly go almost anywhere with you. It’s lightweight and only 17-inches long, yet still can handle almost any grilling challenge a griller on the go could hope to throw at it. It has a built-in heat protection shield and chrome handles that remain cool while cooking, and the removable charcoal tray offers easy cleanup when you’re finished at the campground or on the beach. Wherever you intend to do some grilling this summer, the Everdure CUBE charcoal grill is a great option as a copilot.
Outdoors The best electric bikes have come a long way in recent years and we don't just mean in terms of the miles you travel. With technology changing quickly, there are also an increasing number of electric bike deals around and we've picked out some of the very best. Electric bikes are a great way of getting around more easily and without necessarily needing to use as much stamina as a regular bike. Below, you'll find fantastic e-bike bike deals from many different retailers. There'll be something for every need here. Let's take a look at them.
Jasion EB5 Electric Bike -- $430, was $750 With a 350w brushless motor, the Jasion EB5 Electric Bike can achieve a top speed of 20 MPH with a range of up to 25-40 miles per charge. It has four working modes with a PAS mode where the motor assists with a moderate amount of power as you pedal, along with a Pure Electric Mode, a Pedal Mode, and a Booster Mode where the bike assist on hills and anywhere else you might be struggling. 26-inch puncture-resistant tires provide excellent durability while there's a high-strength front fork suspension, Shimano 7-speed gears, dual lights, and an LCD display. The latter offers controls for adjustable backlight brightness with one of five levels, along with mode controls.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
