Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Outdoors Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Pedego City Commuter Lite Edition Review Pedaling optional: This sweat-free ebike is practically a moped By Matthew S. Smith Close $1,895.00 Affordable Secure, compliant ride Powerful motor Broad dealer network Heavy frame Lacks pedal assist or LCD display I was probably doing 25 miles per hour when I locked eyes with the cop. Immediately, I tapped on the brakes and, after a short distance, casually looked over my shoulder to see if his Ford Explorer had leaped out of its parking space.
Heavyweight cruiser Don’t bother pedaling The features are missing. But will you miss them? Our take It hadn’t, of course. I was doing the speed limit, pedaling away on an electric bike that looked like any mundane cruiser. I wasn’t doing anything wrong. I just felt like I was.
The CyberScooter Edition electric scooter is designed to replace your car Lyft is pulling its e-scooters from six cities and laying off workers Propella 3.0 ebike review: Cheap thrills That mischievous feeling constantly came back as I cruised around Portland on Pedego’s City Commuter Lite Edition.
Not because I was out of line, and not even because the bike is that quick — it’s slow and heavy, even for an ebike. Yet my brain couldn’t gel the heft of the bike with the effortless cruise it can maintain. It made scooting around town simple and left more than a few fellow cyclists sweating through their bib shorts in a futile attempt to keep up.
Heavyweight cruiser The City Commuter Lite Edition, starting at $1,895, gets its name from its price and not weight. The classic 28-inch model I rode weighs 55.8 pounds. That’s high for an electric bike in this category; the Trek Verve+ is 45 pounds, and the Specialized Turbo Como weighs 46 pounds. You’ll have a hard time hefting the City Commuter Lite Edition up a set of stairs or even a tall curb. The battery, mounted below the rear rack, can be removed to slightly reduce weight and improve balance.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Its weight can be felt on the road. Lycra-clad cyclists worshiping at the temple of carbon will have a bad reaction to the City Commuter Lite Edition’s tepid, relaxed road manner. Telepathic steering? Hah. You ask the City Commuter Lite Edition to do something, and like a good friend baked on half a bowl of edible brownies, it’ll comply. Eventually. After it finishes the last season of Friends.
Of course, relaxation has perks. The bike doesn’t twitch or jerk when you turn the bars, but wafts in your intended direction. Bumps and potholes are noticeable, as the bike has no suspension, but the hefty frame and thick tires isolate most jolts. You’ll only find it ponderous if you purposely dive into a corner at high speed. Competitors from Specialized and Trek feel more responsive.
The bike doesn’t twitch or jerk when you turn the bars, but wafts in your intended direction.
This isn’t a sports coupe. It’s a truck – and I mean that as a compliment. Most Americans drive trucks or SUVs. Not because they need the cargo room, but because they like how a truck feels on the road. Trucks are big, comfortable, hefty machines. Their sheer mass is reassuring. The City Commuter Lite Edition provides similar pleasure, all without belching a ton of carbon every month.
Don’t bother pedaling Though it’s Pedego’s most basic City Commuter model, the Lite still has a 500-watt motor. There’s no pedal assist here. Just twist and go. On flat terrain, the bike glides to cruising speed in a few seconds. Keep the throttle open and you’ll eventually hit the top speed of 20 miles per hour.
Yes, that’s right. You don’t have to pedal. State laws generally require an ebike to move under pedal power but don’t demand the rider must pedal. It’s entirely possible to treat the City Commuter Lite like an electric moped, and I’d argue you’re better off for it. The bike’s hefty frame, upright position, and broad seat make pedaling a serious chore. I’m a daily bike commuter, riding 12 miles round-trip on a meat-powered bike most days, and even I found the City Commuter Lite challenging to push around on my own power.
Previous Next 1 4 Image used with permission by copyright holder Image used with permission by copyright holder Image used with permission by copyright holder Image used with permission by copyright holder Stick to the throttle, though, and the bike’s convivence is addicting. Want to meet friends for dinner after work? No problem. Just hop on and hit the throttle. You won’t need to a change of clothes since you’re not putting in real effort, and you can use bike lanes or sidewalks to bypass traffic (sidewalk use is legal in Oregon – check your state laws). The City Commuter Lite Edition is a fantastically quick way to navigate urban America during rush hour.
Yes, that’s right. You don’t have to pedal.
You can wander up to 45 miles, according to Pedego’s marketing materials. I’d say that’s a charitable claim. I ran the battery down to a quarter with two 12-mile trips, which meant I had to charge once every three days. Most riders will see between 30 to 40 miles on a charge. That’s a tad less than you might expect from a Specialized Turbo Como 2.0 or Trek Verve+ under similar conditions, and the City Commuter Lite Edition is more difficult to ride when out of juice because of its heavy frame. Charging the Lite’s battery from near-empty to full took about four hours.
The features are missing. But will you miss them? The most expensive ebikes can be complex, and some even have smartphone apps. The City Commuter Lite Edition strips most of that out in the name of affordable, reliable transportation. Pedal assist? Not here. LCD screen with speed and range? Nope. It has a throttle, disc brakes, a rudimentary charge gauge, a taillight, and that’s about it.
Stripping out features does rob the bike of excitement. Sitting atop a $5,000+ Specialized Vado or Riese and Müller Charger feels like an event before you start moving. Pedego’s City Commuter Lite Edition is just a bike. It looks like a cruiser but, unlike most cruisers, it’s not available in exciting colors (at least, not in Lite Edition trim).
Image used with permission by copyright holder You can find more features on less expensive ebikes. The GenZe 200 , which we reviewed last year, offered pedal assist and a basic LCD screen. Other options include the Sondors Thin and Propella 3.0., both of which are less expensive but have a few additional features. Those bikes are also a bit lighter.
The City Commuter Lite Edition has a more powerful motor, however. While many competitors have 250- or 350-watt motors, Pedego includes a 500-watt unit. The difference is noticeable from a standstill, and the bike can (eventually) haul itself up steep hills that affordable electric bikes usually can’t tackle without help from your quads.
It has a throttle, disc brakes, a rudimentary charge gauge, a taillight, and that’s about it.
You’ll also find a rear rack integrated into the frame. It’s a handy standard feature that’s rarely stock on competing ebikes. The rack’s thick tubing means certain pannier bags won’t fit, but that’s only a problem if you already own a pair.
Pedego has one feature that’s rare among electric bikes: a nationwide retail network. Pedego, which has operated for a decade and calls itself the biggest electric bike brand in America, operates over 100 stores across the United States and promises a two-year warranty. You’ll find Pedego stores not only in the usual coastal bike havens but also in Boise, Indianapolis, and Santa Fe. Only the largest bike brands, like Specialized and Trek, have similar reach.
Our take Pedego’s City Commuter Lite is more electric moped than electric bike, and that statement alone should help you decide if you’re interested. Looking for an ebike that’s great for exercise or covering long distances? Skip it. Want an ebike you can zip across town without arriving sweaty and exhausted? The Pedego City Commuter Lite is for you.
Is there a better alternative? You’ll find even less expensive bikes from affordable brands like Swagtron and Ecotric that can get you from point A to B, but they have less powerful motors and often skimp on disc brakes.
Major bike brands offer electric commuter bikes at similar but slightly higher prices. Trek’s Verve+ and Specialized’s Turbo Como 2.0 are good examples. They’ll appeal if you want a conventional city bike that’s fun to ride on your own power but can also offer a boost when needed.
How long will it last? The City Commuter Lite Edition’s heavy frame could last decades if maintained well, and all the components can be repaired or replaced. As with so many electronics, the battery will be your main obstacle to longevity. While replaceable, there’s no guarantee that a compatible battery will be widely available in 2029.
Pedego offers a two-year warranty and has a broad dealer network. The dealer network is great, but the warranty is so-so. Major bike brands offer tiered warranties that usually cover electric bike components for two years and cover the frame for life.
Should you buy it? Yes. The Pedego City Commuter Lite Edition is a simple, affordable electric bike that can navigate dense cities at least as quickly as a car.
Editors' Recommendations Scooter startup Lime exits 12 cities and lays off workers in profit push Electric Citi Bikes is returning to New York City with a price shake-up Vintage Electric honors Shelby with limited-edition e-bike for Cobra fans The best deals on electric scooters and electric skateboards for your commute Lyft pulls thousands of ebikes from three U.S. cities over safety issue Cars Emerging Tech eBike Reviews Emerging Tech Product Reviews Outdoors A few months back, Google Maps teamed up with Lime to help riders locate its dockless scooters, ebikes, and pedal bikes more easily.
The feature launched in 13 cities globally, 11 of them in the U.S., with the two-wheelers showing up in Google Maps in just a few taps.
Outdoors Previous Next News It's better known for ridesharing, but make no mistake, Lyft is getting serious about expanding into bikesharing services, too.
Its plan is evidenced by Lyft's announcement on Thursday, November 29, that it has now completed its acquisition of Motivate — the largest bikesharing provider in North America.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
