Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Outdoors Reviews Propella 3.0 ebike review: Cheap thrills By Kraig Becker Close When I reviewed the Propella 2.2 ebike earlier in the year, I thought it was a fun commuter. While I wasn’t overly impressed with its range and component set, I did feel that the 2.2 was a lightweight and affordable option for those looking to jump into the ebike market.
Similar bike, new battery pack New fork, smoother ride In control Warranty information Is there a better alternative? How long will it last? Should you buy it? Fast forward a few months, and Propella has introduced an updated 3.0 version, which brings some nice refinements to a solid product.
In fact, the company has made an already enticing model even better, retaining its crown as the budget ebike to beat.
Spinciti’s Amsterdam e-bike offers speed and range at an affordable price Specialized’s new road ebike will cure your range anxiety for good Similar bike, new battery pack At first glance, it isn’t easy to see a difference between the Propella 2.2 and its 3.0 sibling. Both models have a very similar look that includes the company’s signature reflective blue wheels and a low-key design that camouflages its electric components nicely. But dig a little deeper and you’ll start to see a few subtle changes, some of which are merely cosmetic, while others make for simple, but effective improvements on the original bike’s performance.
One of the more noticeable changes is a redesigned battery pack. On the Propella 2.2 model, the battery looked a bit like a water bottle bolted onto the frame, which made it more difficult to identify as an ebike. The new version looks more like a traditional ebike battery, albeit a slim and streamlined one. The refreshed battery design doesn’t call much attention, however, allowing it to continue to fly under the radar for the most part.
Kraig Becker / Digital Trends However, the new battery doesn’t bring longer range with it. The Propella 3.0 is still rated for approximately 20 to 40 miles of pedal assist depending on the settings you use the most. That’s about half what you’d find in most other ebikes, so those with range anxiety will still need to bring a charger or an extra battery with them when making a longer commute. Recharging remains a brisk 2.5 hours, so it doesn’t take long to get the battery fully juiced up again.
The new battery pack powers the same 250-watt hub-mounted motor that was found on the Propella 2.2. That drive system is capable of providing pedal assist speeds of up to 18 miles per hour, so if you’re in the market for a fast ebike, you may want to look elsewhere. Urban commuters will find it to be more than adequate for weaving through traffic or climbing steep hills however.
With five levels of pedal assist – activated via a handlebar-mounted LCD screen and controller – the bike can deliver as much or as little power as the rider needs. As with most ebikes, finding the balance between pedaling entirely on your own and having the motor lend a hand is the key to extending battery life as far as possible.
Thankfully, the included display makes that easy to do by making all of the important information available at a glance. It’s small, and simple, but it works.
New fork, smoother ride Another design change that isn’t all that evident at first glance is Propella’s use of a new front fork on the 3.0’s bike frame. The new fork is a bit thicker and features a slightly different shape, which helps to improve ride quality in a noticeable way. On the 2.2 model the ride was fine, but not particularly outstanding. On the 3.0 things are smoother and more refined.
This is especially noticeable on longer commutes, which are more comfortable in general. The bike handles bumps and cracks in the road much better as well, which was greatly appreciated both on the bike and after the ride was over, with less muscle fatigue setting in.
Speaking of improved ride quality, Propella now offers an optional accessory that is a dramatic upgrade. The Kinekt Suspension Seatpost is an additional $200, but it makes a huge difference in terms of comfort while in the saddle. The seatpost comes with a set of springs built in that are designed to further lessen the impact of riding on a rough road.
To put the performance of this accessory into perspective, it is roughly the equivalent of going from a regular mountain bike with a front suspension to a full-suspension model instead. Considering how affordable the Propella 3.0 already is, spending another $200 to get such a major upgrade in ride quality seems like a no-brainer.
That said, for testing purposes I also rode the 3.0 in its stock configuration and found it to be on par with the 2.2 edition in terms of comfort. The standard seat and seatpost combo are more than adequate for daily rides, although they aren’t nearly as comfortable as when I upgraded to the Kineckt seatpost. The new front fork gives Propella’s newest bike the edge over the previous generation however, helping to smooth out almost every aspect of the ride.
In control One of the things that I noted when reviewing the 2.2 model was that the rear tire would sometimes get a little loose when going around corners at higher speeds. At the time, I chalked it up to the rear-hub motor sending too much power to the wheel while cornering, and although it was a bit unnerving it was never so bad as to actually cause a crash.
This happened with much less frequency when riding the 3.0 and never to the same level of severity. On paper, the two bikes use the same components, and not much should have changed in this area. Yet the 3.0 felt more stable when cornering while pedal assist was engaged.
Both the Propella 2.2 and 3.0 share the same cycling component set, which I found to be reliable and adequate on both models. These components were picked to help keep costs down rather than to provide top-tier performance. The main goal is to deliver an ebike that is very affordable, and in order to do that some compromises had to be made. Still, the chainset, gears, pedals, tires, and various other parts do a good job of straddling a line between price, dependability, durability, and ease of maintenance.
This includes a set of mechanical disc brakes, which provide plenty of stopping power without the price tag of hydraulic models.
Kraig Becker / Digital Trends As with its predecessor, the Propella 3.0 comes in two different versions – a single-speed model that runs $999, and a 7-speed edition that incorporates a Shimano gear system and sells for $1199. If you’re riding on mostly flat terrain and are looking to save a few dollars, the single-speed model will more than meet your needs.
However, the $200 premium for the 7-speed model is worth the money, providing more versatility when it comes to riding. Between changing up both the gear you ride in and the level of power assist from the electric motor, it is possible to dial in the exact settings you need for cruising down a road effortlessly or climbing massive hills that would normally be a significant challenge.
The new Propella doesn’t come with built-in lights, which was one of our quibbles with the earlier version. Many ebikes, particularly those aimed at urban commuters, now come with lights already mounted on the frame, and I would have loved to have seen that upgrade included here. That said, if it meant raising the price or impacting the range of the bike by draining the battery faster, this is yet another compromise that I can live with.
Warranty information Propella offers a one year warranty on all of its bikes, with a 14-day return policy.
Our take The Propella 3.0 remains a great bargain in the ebike space. The bike is still an excellent option for an entry-level model that doesn’t try to compete with higher priced ebikes in terms of specs and performance. Instead, it stands alone as a quality ride that will surprise and delight cyclists on a budget.
Is there a better alternative? As stated in my the Propella 2.2 review, there are much better ebikes on the market, but you won’t very many at this price point. This is especially true for commuters and casual riders who are on a limited budget. But today’s ebike market is evolving quickly and there are now options from most of the major manufacturers, including Trek , Specialized , and Raleigh.
The Swagtron EB12 is one possible competitor for the Propella 3.0, but it underlines why the Propella is a better option. The Swagtron doesn’t look or feel as robust and has a slightly lower top speed. It’s $200 less, because it has a 7-speed drivetrain for $1,000 — but I think it’s wise to spend a little more on the 7-speed Propella 3.0.
Still not sure what to buy? Check out our favorite electric bikes of 2019.
How long will it last? Like its predecessor, the Propella 3.0 is built to last, with a frame and component set that are simple, yet durable and reliable. That should make for years of worry-free riding with just simple, basic maintenance to ensure that everything stays in working order. As with most ebikes, the battery may be the first thing to go, and Propella offers replacements for $249.
Should you buy it? Yes. The Propella 3.0 is the rare example of a budget electric bike that will keep you happy for years to come.
Editors' Recommendations The best electric bikes for 2023 The Karmic Oslo looks like an eibike Apple would design and build Yamaha’s Wabash ebike takes on gravel, single track, and more Health & Fitness e-Bikes Outdoors EcoFlow, a manufacturer of portable energy solutions, has announced the launch of the Delta 2 Max -- an eco-friendly solar generator that could replace your current gas generator. The device clocks in at 2,048 watts and should deliver enough power to keep your home running for two days as an emergency backup (or many more if you’re using it as an off-grid power source).
The original Delta Max was a popular item for outdoor adventures, as it could connect to the existing lineup of portable EcoFlow solar panels to juice up gadgets while out in the backcountry. That legacy continues with the Delta 2 Max, which features an upgraded lithium iron phosphate (LFP) battery for a longer life cycle and faster charging.
Outdoors Warm weather is here, and so is grilling season. Now is as good a time as any to set out in search of one of the best outdoor grills, and it’s never a bad time to keep an eye out for a discount on one as well. Whether you’re a grilling beginner ready for some burgers with the family or a seasoned pro looking to host summer gatherings around one of the best smart grills and smokers, we’ve tracked down all of the details you need to land a deal on a grill that’s right for your needs. Read onward for more details.
Everdure CUBE charcoal grill — $150, was $199 The Everdure CUBE charcoal grill is a unique little grill that can truly go almost anywhere with you. It’s lightweight and only 17-inches long, yet still can handle almost any grilling challenge a griller on the go could hope to throw at it. It has a built-in heat protection shield and chrome handles that remain cool while cooking, and the removable charcoal tray offers easy cleanup when you’re finished at the campground or on the beach. Wherever you intend to do some grilling this summer, the Everdure CUBE charcoal grill is a great option as a copilot.
Outdoors The best electric bikes have come a long way in recent years and we don't just mean in terms of the miles you travel. With technology changing quickly, there are also an increasing number of electric bike deals around and we've picked out some of the very best. Electric bikes are a great way of getting around more easily and without necessarily needing to use as much stamina as a regular bike. Below, you'll find fantastic e-bike bike deals from many different retailers. There'll be something for every need here. Let's take a look at them.
Jasion EB5 Electric Bike -- $430, was $750 With a 350w brushless motor, the Jasion EB5 Electric Bike can achieve a top speed of 20 MPH with a range of up to 25-40 miles per charge. It has four working modes with a PAS mode where the motor assists with a moderate amount of power as you pedal, along with a Pure Electric Mode, a Pedal Mode, and a Booster Mode where the bike assist on hills and anywhere else you might be struggling. 26-inch puncture-resistant tires provide excellent durability while there's a high-strength front fork suspension, Shimano 7-speed gears, dual lights, and an LCD display. The latter offers controls for adjustable backlight brightness with one of five levels, along with mode controls.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
