Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Outdoors Reviews Rad Power Bikes RadRover Step-Thru review: Carry all the things Rad Power Bike's RadRover Step-Thru model brings fat tire fun to more people.
By Bruce Brown Close $1,499.00 Excellent value Smooth ride Extremely versatile Step-Thru frame is accessible Heavy and bulky Seat adjustment tricky for short riders Rad Power Bikes ‘ new RadRover Step-Thru e-bike improves rider accessibility over the RadRover , the popular brand’s bestseller. Mounting and riding the RadRover Step-Thru model is easier for those of us who are challenged in terms of height and flexibility by the RadRover’s cross-tube design and 30.5-inch step-over height.
Best uses Speed, range, and components Build and assembly So, how big and heavy is it? Riding it Our Take The rugged and versatile fat tire RadRover models deliver impressive value at their identical $1,499 starting prices. Sure, you can find e-bikes for under $1,000 that purport to have the same capabilities but lack the RadRovers’ quality complements and company support. And those with deep pockets can spend $5,000 or more for special-purpose e-bikes designed for road races or competitive mountain trail riding.
Image used with permission by copyright holder The two RadRovers, like Rad Power Bikes’ other models, hit the sweet spot in terms of the quality and durability most people expect at this price. The $1,200 to $1,800 price range is the fastest-growing segment of the e-bike market, with Rad Power Bikes and Juiced Bikes the current sales leaders.
Best uses The versatile RadRovers excel at recreation and transportation on- and off-road in towns and villages, on trails and at the beach, around campgrounds, in parks, and, if equipped with the proper accessories, running errands and shopping.
Neither the RadRover Step-Thru, nor the cross-tube version, is the best choice for all e-bike use. The relatively heavy RadRovers aren’t suitable as electric mountain bikes, and you wouldn’t want to enter one in a Hooligan-style e-bike flat-track race. The RadRovers’ weight and bulk also rule them out as urban mobility alternatives, as daily trips up and down stairs or on elevators would get old quick.
Speed, range, and components The RadRover Step-Thru is a class 2 e-bike, which means that you can use electrical power to help you attain speeds up to 20 miles per hour. The battery-powered electrical motor on the bike’s rear-wheel hub works in two ways. You can choose from five levels of electrical assistance when you pedal the bike using a 7-speed Shimano derailleur.
There’s also a twist-grip throttle on the right handgrip that you can use for electrical power assistance with or without pedaling. Either way you use it, the electrical power assistance cuts out at 20-mph and only kicks back in when your speed drops below that threshold.
The RadRover Step-Thru’s rechargeable lithium-ion NCA battery has a travel range of 25 to 45 miles. Mileage will vary depending on full cargo weight (meaning you and your stuff), speed, incline, temperature, tire pressure, and, more than any other factor, the degree to which you use battery power more than pedal power. Fully recharging the battery pack with the included charger takes 5 to 6 hours.
The bike rides on 4-inch-wide x 26-inch diameter Kenda Juggernaut tires designed specifically for Rad Power Bikes. These tires have a mildly aggressive tread and a puncture-resistant liner that is a necessity for bikes ridden at e-bike speeds on varied terrain. Adjusting the tire’s air pressure can also significantly improve ride comfort.
Tektro mechanical 180mm disc brakes offer serious stopping power. While hydraulic disc brakes require less squeezing pressure, they cost more and need more maintenance than the mechanical brakes.
The RadRover models have a front spring fork with adjustable preload and 80mm of travel. You can adjust the fork easily with your fingers, and there’s also a lockout if you prefer a rigid frame. Lighting includes a new-to-Rad LED halo front light and a rear light that brightens when you apply the brakes. The RadRover Step-Thru and the latest version of the RadRover both come with black fenders standard — fenders were previously an option.
Build and assembly Rad Power Bikes primarily sells e-bikes directly to the buyer, with shipping included in the sale price. Rad also has showrooms in Seattle, Vancouver, B.C., and the Netherlands, as well as numerous locations in North America, Central America, and Europe where you can test ride various models.
Rad ships e-bikes in a large carton with the front wheel and seat removed, and the handlebar detached. The only part where you might want help is in lifting the bike from the shipping carton. Rad includes the necessary tools with the bike. Rad Power Bikes also sends printed owner’s manuals with each of its bikes — most other manufacturers now rely on online manuals.
Using the manual and videos accessible from the Rad website, you can expect to spend one to two hours assembling the e-bike depending on your familiarity with the process.
To check out the Step-Thru’s versatility, we asked for optional front and rear racks ($69 and $80, respectively), a metal front basket ($79), and a pair of panniers or saddlebags ($89 each) to attach to the rear rack. Correctly installing the accessories took about two hours at a careful and methodical pace. The final price of the RadRover Step-Thru with accessories was $1,885.
So, how big and heavy is it? The RadRover Step-Thru’s total length is 75 inches, the handlebar height is 47.5 inches, and the seat height (from the bottom of the pedal) adjusts from 28 inches to 37 inches. Stand-over height is only 20.25-inches with the Step-Thru. The RadRover dimensions are approximately the same as the Step-Thru except for its 30.5-inch stand-over height. The extra 10 inches makes a huge difference in getting on and off the bike.
The recommended rider height for the RadRover ranges from 5 feet, 4 inches to 6 feet, 2 inches. Thanks to its lower stand-over height, the Step-Thru’s recommended rider height ranges from 5 feet, 0 inches to 6 feet, 2 inches. Both versions have a 275-pound payload capacity, which includes passengers, luggage, and installed accessories.
Checking in on a Facebook Rad Power Bikes owners group , I found that 5 feet, 7 inches was the height at which people began to question the feasibility of buying a RadRover, especially if they planned to add a rear rack. I am precisely 5 feet, 7-inches, and I found it comfortable to mount the bike before I added the rear rack and panniers. With the accessories installed, I always stepped through the frame. I have a 29-inch inseam and found a happy compromise by adjusting the seat height so my legs could almost fully extend while pedaling and still be able to reach the ground without leaving the seat at stop signs or intersections.
Image used with permission by copyright holder The Step-Thru model weighs 71 pounds, two pounds more than the RadRover. After I installed the accessories listed above, the bike weighed 83 pounds. Without accessories, the RadRover Step-Thru is only a few pounds heavier than other Rad models such as the 65-pound RadRunner or 67-pound RadMini.
 With the accessories in place on the Step-Thru, however, it was noticeably heavier to lift.
When I transported the RadRover Step-Thru to ride in various areas in southeastern North Carolina, it was easy to mount on a hitch carrier.
Riding it Image used with permission by copyright holder I logged miles on the RadRover StepThru both on- and off-road across fields, on dirt roads, and on paved roads and paths. Most often, I pedaled and used the throttle. The throttle is especially helpful when pulling away from a stop or out of an intersection with traffic, and responds quickly with the instant torque typical to e-vehicles. Maintaining 20mph or close to it wasn’t a challenge, although there are few hills in our coastal area. The fat tires definitely added to my confidence in the bike when riding near the edge of the road in traffic.
Based on my most recent experiences with e-bikes that have disc brakes of similar size, including the significantly lighter RadRunner, I was at first concerned about the stopping power of the brakes of the RadRover Step-Thru, especially after I added the racks and other accessories. In practice, however, I just pulled the brake levers a bit harder, and the bike stopped very quickly. E-bikes don’t have an anti-lock braking system (ABS), and I could easily lock up the wheels for a sliding stop.
Image used with permission by copyright holder When I rode on anything but paved surfaces, I found that I relied more on throttle power only and less on pedaling. Even with the front suspension adjusted for more travel, and with lowered tire pressure, the ride was jumpy enough that I tended to stand on the pedals to use my knees as additional suspension components.
Bicycle seat style preference varies widely among riders. The RadRover has a Velo Plush saddle that some riders in the Rad Owners Facebook group praise. If I bought the RadRover, I’d probably replace the seat for a more cushy ride and perhaps replace the seat post with a suspension post as well. Switching out the standard components would likely cost $150 to $200 for aftermarket parts, so seating is another area in which Rad kept the price down with a midrange seat that many people find perfectly acceptable.
When riding the RadRover Step-Thru on a variety of surfaces, usually at or close to the 20mph maximum, I never noticed any shaking or found loose components or accessories after the ride. I jumped a few curbs at full speed, and while contents of the basket that weren’t secured moved around a bit, the bike didn’t falter or get squirrelly before regaining traction and momentum.
Our Take The RadRover Step-Thru lives up to the conventionally designed RadRover’s reputation as a solidly constructed all-purpose e-bike. The Step-Thru never faltered, shook, or disappointed when traveling.
This bike is so sturdy and had enough room that it could certainly function as a cargo bike — unless you wanted to carry multiple passengers in optional child seats. I didn’t use it that way, but the rear panniers, rack, and front basket could handle most grocery shopping, sporting gear, or work tools. This is as much storage as you’ll get short of buying an extended-length cargo bike.
It’s easy to see why the RadRover is Rad Power Bikes’ top seller, and the Step-Thru version may well capture riders who would otherwise purchase the narrow-tire RadCity Step-Thru model. The RadRover’s fat tires add more versatility to the e-bike, albeit at somewhat of a cost of pedaling ease.
Is there a better alternative? Some riders might prefer the cross-tube RadRover model just for looks, but a Rad representative assured us there is no difference in structural rigidity. The RadRover Step-Thru is available with a black or white frame, in each case with black fenders. The cross-tube RadRover only comes with a black frame. Our test bike was white because that was the color available, but I also think it gives the bike improved visibility over an all-black model. If you want a fat tire bike but need more portability, the folding RadMini is an excellent alternative at the same $1,499 price.
Among other brands, the Juiced Bikes RipCurrent Fat Tire E-Bike could be a good choice, although, at $1,899, it costs $400 more than the RadRover. The RipCurrent is a Class 3 bike with a 28-mph top speed, but it lacks the RadRover’s now-standard fenders. CSC Motorcycles recently introduced the CSC FT750-26 , a new fat-tire e-bike with many premium components and a top speed of 25 to 28-mph. It has a $1,688 list price.
How long will it last? All Rad Power Bikes come with a 1-year warranty against manufacturing defects, but we expect this bike should last 3 to 5 years or longer. Rad has a reputation for bikes with solid structural components, and the other elements are all recognized brand names, so there shouldn’t be an issue if you need to replace parts in the future. Also, Rad has live customer support hours seven days a week from the company’s Seattle headquarters.
Should you buy one? Yes. If you’re looking for a solidly constructed e-bike to use as an all-purpose ride in various settings, the RadRover Step-Thru won’t disappoint. If you buy another e-bike in the future, the Step-Thru will still be a great bike to keep because the Step-Thru frame makes it accessible and easy to operate for a wide range of riders.
Editors' Recommendations Rad Power Bikes’ new e-bike models boost accessibility and visibility e-Bikes eBike Reviews Product Reviews Outdoors EcoFlow, a manufacturer of portable energy solutions, has announced the launch of the Delta 2 Max -- an eco-friendly solar generator that could replace your current gas generator. The device clocks in at 2,048 watts and should deliver enough power to keep your home running for two days as an emergency backup (or many more if you’re using it as an off-grid power source).
The original Delta Max was a popular item for outdoor adventures, as it could connect to the existing lineup of portable EcoFlow solar panels to juice up gadgets while out in the backcountry. That legacy continues with the Delta 2 Max, which features an upgraded lithium iron phosphate (LFP) battery for a longer life cycle and faster charging.
Outdoors Warm weather is here, and so is grilling season. Now is as good a time as any to set out in search of one of the best outdoor grills, and it’s never a bad time to keep an eye out for a discount on one as well. Whether you’re a grilling beginner ready for some burgers with the family or a seasoned pro looking to host summer gatherings around one of the best smart grills and smokers, we’ve tracked down all of the details you need to land a deal on a grill that’s right for your needs. Read onward for more details.
Everdure CUBE charcoal grill — $150, was $199 The Everdure CUBE charcoal grill is a unique little grill that can truly go almost anywhere with you. It’s lightweight and only 17-inches long, yet still can handle almost any grilling challenge a griller on the go could hope to throw at it. It has a built-in heat protection shield and chrome handles that remain cool while cooking, and the removable charcoal tray offers easy cleanup when you’re finished at the campground or on the beach. Wherever you intend to do some grilling this summer, the Everdure CUBE charcoal grill is a great option as a copilot.
Outdoors The best electric bikes have come a long way in recent years and we don't just mean in terms of the miles you travel. With technology changing quickly, there are also an increasing number of electric bike deals around and we've picked out some of the very best. Electric bikes are a great way of getting around more easily and without necessarily needing to use as much stamina as a regular bike. Below, you'll find fantastic e-bike bike deals from many different retailers. There'll be something for every need here. Let's take a look at them.
Jasion EB5 Electric Bike -- $430, was $750 With a 350w brushless motor, the Jasion EB5 Electric Bike can achieve a top speed of 20 MPH with a range of up to 25-40 miles per charge. It has four working modes with a PAS mode where the motor assists with a moderate amount of power as you pedal, along with a Pure Electric Mode, a Pedal Mode, and a Booster Mode where the bike assist on hills and anywhere else you might be struggling. 26-inch puncture-resistant tires provide excellent durability while there's a high-strength front fork suspension, Shimano 7-speed gears, dual lights, and an LCD display. The latter offers controls for adjustable backlight brightness with one of five levels, along with mode controls.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
