Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Outdoors Riese & Muller Delite nuvinci Review Riese & Muller’s Delite nuvinci goes the extra miles for a premium price By Mitchell Nicholson Close $6,579.00 Tons of accessories Adjustable front and rear suspension Belt drive Dual battery increases range Expensive Second battery isn’t included in base price Range anxiety is a relatively new concept, especially in the world of e-bikes. While the dread of getting stranded is less dramatic as it is when it happens to electric cars, watching your range tick down mile by mile causes a bit of unnecessary malaise. Stepping in to ease your range worries is the German-based ebike manufacturer, Riese & Muller with its latest product, the Delite nuvinci.
 By doubling down on battery power, the Delite nuvinci gives riders the ultimate experience in e-bike range.
What is it? Accessories galore Putting the power down Say goodbye to the chain Warranty Information Our Take But is the extra battery (and the range that comes with it) worth the higher price tag? To get a true sense of how the Delite nuvinci handles in the wild, we snagged one for a few weeks and rode it like hell. At the end of our nearly 500 miles on the bike, we found that this premium-priced ebike packs a premium punch, and we just couldn’t get enough.
Bosch Kiox and SmartphoneHub hands-on: The sleek displays e-bikes deserve Use Wheels’ new helmets and the bikesharing startup will discount your ride Spinciti’s Amsterdam e-bike offers speed and range at an affordable price What is it? The Delite nuvinci is one of the many options Riese & Muller offer for its dual battery purposes, yet there’s so much more to it than dual batteries. Hailed by its creators as a “town and country” e-bike, the Delite nuvinci provides an upright and comfortable body position that’s as able at tackling potholes as it is rocky dirt roads. The all-purpose abilities of the Delite nuvinci are due to its full suspension with Suntour Aion air suspension fork and X-Fusion O2 air-sprung element rear shock, as well as the 27.5″ Schwalbe Almotion 55-584 tires.
Accessories galore Riese & Muller did a lot more than just equip the bike with quality suspension and reliable tires. Rather, it’s the healthy helping of included accessories which allow the Delite nuvinci to truly shine. As anyone who’s sifted through third-party add-ons can attest, going through the process of finding what fits and modifying a universal part is a hassle. Not only do accessories often fail to live up to their billing but it takes entirely too much time to take a stab at custom fitting them.
The healthy helping of included accessories allow the Delite nuvinci to truly shine.
So, Riese & Muller decided to do the updating for you as the bike comes standard with water bottles and holders, a kickstand, fenders, lighting, a luggage rack, and an Abus bike lock that’s keyed to match its lockable batteries. Put plainly, purchasing the Delite nuvinci gives you an e-bike that has everything you’d need for an extended trip — save for actual luggage and perhaps a phone holder like other e-bikes we’ve tested have had. Each included accessory is not simple throw-ins, either. This is gear you need.
Though these accessories aren’t exactly a dealbreaker, the fact they’re included — and thus make the bike void of any immediate, expensive upgrades — allows the steep price tag to make a bit more sense. Sure, $7,000 isn’t exactly pocket change but drastically reducing the process of hunting for, and installing, an add-on is a nice touch and something that shouldn’t be taken for granted.
Putting the power down When it comes to heading out for your daily commute, or even an extended trip, options don’t mean much if power isn’t being put down. Rest assured, the Bosch Performance CX motor with its dual 36-volt Bosch PowerPack 500 Performance batteries give you all the range you need. In our experience on the Delite nuvinci, we consistently experienced a range of roughly 130 miles while in Eco mode. This lined up exactly with the estimates on the Bosch Range Calculator as well as the Bosch Intuvia display.
For the most part, our experience with the Bosch Performance CX motor was issue free, with our only complaint being that the pedal assist was a bit more abrupt than other models we’ve tested in the past.
 Similarly, the Intuvia display was more than adequate, giving us feedback on our current speed, range left in the battery, and trip distance while also indicating which mode we were in (Eco, Tour, Sport, Turbo).
The Delite nuvinci is the perfect entry into the world of ebikes — that is if you can afford it.
Like many ebikes on the market, each mode offers a slightly different pedal-assisted ride. Eco, the Delite nuvinci’s base mode, gives the bike a subtle amount of boost while each subsequent mode kicks it up a few noticeable notches. As expected, each mode’s impact on the battery increases as the power does, with Turbo sapping its juice at a rapid clip.
Say goodbye to the chain Despite the bumpy pedal-assistance, the bike’s Gates belt drive helped smooth out the ride. Eschewing the laborious task of shifting gears, the Delite nuvinci uses a clockwork of pulleys and tensioners to take you from flat surfaces to hills with zero noise or issue.
Controlled via the grip on the handlebars, the bike’s belt drive bids farewell to the days of crossed up chains, instead leaning on a durable belt that’s both longer-lasting and free of greasy maintenance. Another high-quality addition which only further justifies its expensive barrier of entry.
Warranty Information The Delite nuvinci offers a ten-year warranty for the frame, five years for the rear swingarm, two years for Bosch’s electric motor, and a standard one-year manufacturer warranty on the remaining components.
Our Take The Delite nuvinci is the perfect entry into the world of ebikes — that is if you can afford it. Having professionals, like the folks at Riese & Muller, go through the process of picking the best parts and pieces saves you a ton of time and effort. However, the flip side is that convenience is expensive and at $6,759 for the base Delite nuvinci, words like budget don’t come to mind. Furthermore, considering that base price only includes a single battery — the second costs $823 extra — you start reaching the upper regions of ebike price points similar to Stromer’s ST2 S.
But, in our time with the Delite nuvinci, it proved itself greater than the sum of its parts. Having an extremely well-sorted bicycle that glides around effortlessly, despite its whopping 74-pound weight, is proof that you get what you pay for.
Is there a better alternative? At present, no. The Delite nuvinci’s dual batteries and the plethora of accessories put it in a class all its own. Comparing it against bikes like eSpin’s Sport , Specialized’s Turbo Vado , or Trek’s Dual Sport+ allows you to match certain aspects, but none comprehensively match wits with Riese & Muller. With an innovative two-battery setup and an accessory-heavy standard build, the Delite nuvinci is in rare territory.
How long will it last? To say we did our best to beat this ebike up is a bit of an understatement. With a little over 470 miles, the Delite nuvinci held up quite well to the abuse we put it through. A drop here or there has done little to phase this beast of a machine. The components, including the Shimano Deore XT hydraulic disc brakes, continued to perform with zero issues.
Meanwhile, the batteries, which take roughly four and a half hours to charge, never created a memory for decreased life and are charged while still attached to the bike. With proper bike maintenance, we could see the Delite nuvinci lasting for several years, allowing anyone to easily get their money’s worth.
Should you buy it? Yes. Even with a slightly elevated price point, what Riese & Muller have done is build a product the buyer doesn’t have to worry about equipping. Through careful curation, the Delite nuvinci is an ebike with all the right parts, creating a near perfect setup for town and country riding. For those able to afford it, we doubt you’d find something more worry-free and complete than the Delite nuvinci.
Editors' Recommendations The best electric bikes for 2023 Rad Power Bikes’ new e-bike models boost accessibility and visibility Amazon discounts Elby electric bicycle by $1,000 ahead of Black Friday Propella 3.0 ebike review: Cheap thrills The Karmic Oslo looks like an eibike Apple would design and build Cars Health & Fitness e-Bikes eBike Reviews Product Reviews Outdoors Previous Next Outdoors FUELL Fluid: Longest Range, Best Pedal Assist E-bike Differentiating ebikes can be difficult, especially when most look pretty much alike. There are tons of choices in this relatively new transportation category, with ebikes designed for urban commuting, trail riding, beach cruising, or just knocking around town. Fuell's Fluid performance urban mobility ebike is unique due to its heritage.
Health & Fitness Previous Next Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
