Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Outdoors Schwinn Monroe 250 review: Making me a fan By Brandon Widder Close $1,349.00 Variable pedal assist Budget-friendly Excellent range Disc brakes Bare-bones LED display Uncomfortable over long distances Average component set I’m not a fan of electric bicycles.
Nostalgia, reinvented Low cost, at a cost Our take As an avid bike commuter, I clock a healthy 2,000 miles on my Specialized Diverge in a any calendar year. It’s a nice bike — though, it’s certainly not Tour-caliber — and I’ve steadily grown accustomed to its jet-black frame and abundance of gears, which allow me to traverse the damp hills of Portland, Oregon with ease. The mere thought of ditching versatility for an electric single-speed seems unnecessary, if not ridiculous.
Mercedes-Benz rolls into micromobility market with foldable e-scooter Vintage Electric honors Shelby with limited-edition e-bike for Cobra fans The Karmic Oslo looks like an eibike Apple would design and build The thing is, the Schwinn Monroe 250 (I reviewed the disc model with an MSRP of $1,35) is a hard bike to hate. It sits at the cross-section of functionality and affordability. It cuts corners, but mostly the right ones, and hits the marks that matter most in range and maneuverability. Like the Swagtron EB12 , it’s aimed at box-store dominance. Yet several key features help it stand out.
Nostalgia, reinvented The Monroe 250 isn’t the iconic Schwinn Corvette your grandfather continues to wax poetic about over Thanksgiving dinner. Unlike the aforementioned three-speed of ‘55, the Monroe is one of several similar models built to capitalize on the burgeoning ebike market in the United States.
The Monroe 250 isn’t the iconic Schwinn Corvette your grandfather continues to wax poetic about over Thanksgiving dinner.
Contours and colors are no longer the selling point here. Instead, the Monroe’s legacy rides on a 250-watt motor attached to the rear hub which, in conjunction with a single-speed drivetrain, allows the bike to reach a top speed 20 miles per hour. That is standard fare at this point — the like-minded Propella 3.0 and Pedego City Commuter Lite Edition both achieve similar speeds — but it’s plenty fast for your everyday cyclist. Leisurely cruising by at 20 mph is enough to make even the most seasoned commuters feel sluggish.
Though it lacks gears, the Monroe features five levels of pedal-assist, each of which supplies you with a little more oomph when you need it most. The mere act of pedaling activates the motor, and it’s subtle enough to not be jarring. Once moving, the bike tracks and turns well, making everyday commutes on flat pavement a breeze. Like the Swagtron EB12 and Propella 3.0, the Schwinn Monroe 250 benefits from its simple frame. It feels much like an average mid-range bicycle.
Riley Young/Digital Trends Thanks to a pair of 32c tires and disc brakes, it can even handle the kind of light trails you might find in a city park or suburb, despite Schwinn billing it exclusively as an “urban ebike.” You wouldn’t want to take it on your local singletrack, but hey, it can handle the occasional bump in the road or bout of bad weather. Larger and more expensive bikes like the Specialized Como will offer better comfort at any given speed, however, thanks to larger tires.
Engaging pedal-assist is easy. A simple, three-button LED display located on the left handlebar allows you to adjust the amount of assistance though, unfortunately, it offers little in the way of metrics. Five LED lights showcase the current level, while another five indicate the remaining battery life. No speedometer. No odometer. No frills.
Not that I’d mind a frill or two. Competitors to the Schwinn Monroe 250 sometimes include small black-and-white LCD displays that offer basic information. They’re not beautiful, but they’re better than nothing, which is what you get with the Monroe 250.
You wouldn’t want to take it on your local singletrack, but it can handle a bump in the road or bout of bad weather.
Schwinn makes good on its claim that the Monroe can venture 45 miles on a single charge, at least under ideal circumstances. Terrain, temperature, and the level of pedal-assist all have an impact on performance, but 45 miles is feasible, and places the Monroe in the upper echelon for this price point. Bikes like the Specialized Como 4.0 can go travel further on a single charge — up to 60 miles, in some instances — but cost significantly more. The Monroe offers ample distance at a fraction of the price.
Low cost, at a cost Schwinn has never been a company associated with high-end components. From the get-go, it was concerned with mass appeal, opting for big-box consumption over the independent bike stores scattered across the country. In the ‘90s, Schwinn bikes appeared in select Target and Walmart stores. In the aughts? Amazon and Dick’s Sporting Goods.
Riley Young/Digital Trends As part of its push for the mainstream market, Schwinn has made an effort to keep costs low. The Monroe originally retailed for $1,350 on Amazon, but can now be found for as low as $900 in select stores (note that there are several models, and some don’t have the disc brakes on my review bike). Cost has long been a barrier for entry when it comes to ebikes, but reduced costs often lead to quality concerns, which is the case with the Monroe, Swagtron EB12, and many bikes within this price bracket.
The aluminum, three-tone build won’t win any awards, but it’s serviceable and nondescript, with flat handlebars and a fixie-style frame that feels both slick and solid. It’s not a real looker, because the electronic components aren’t integrated into the design or frame and most cord runs are external.
The aluminum, three-tone build won’t win any awards, but it’s serviceable and nondescript.
Other components don’t feel as forgiving as the frame. The platform pedals seem brittle, as if they might break if they were to make contact with anything other than your feet, and the “comfort-ribbed” BMX grips, ironically, provide little in the way of comfort. In fact, neither does the road-style saddle, which isn’t much of a respite on longer rides. You’ll want to budget $50 for a saddle upgrade if you buy the Monroe.
My most serious problem was a quality control issue. The stem that shipped with my Schwinn Monroe 250 review bike wasn’t built to the correct specifications. It was slightly too large, which meant the handlebars moved free of the wheel even with all screws fully tightened. This wasn’t revealed until a Digital Trends staffer took the bike to a shop to find out what was wrong. Schwinn quickly shipped a properly manufactured stem, which fixed the problem.
Our take The Schwinn Monroe is the definition of bang for your buck. It’s not the most high-tech ebike on the market, but it still offers ample range and ferries you from point A to point B without breaking a sweat. Despite lackluster hardware, it remains a suitable contender for those looking to expedite their commute without taking out a second loan on their mortgage.
One important note. I reviewed the disc model, which is no longer available new. Only the rim-brake models are available. They’re much less expensive, as low as $900 at Wal-Mart, and that dramatically sweetens the deal. Just remember that rim brakes aren’t the best in rain.
Are there better alternatives? Manufacturers such as Nakto and Ancheer offer more affordable alternatives that often dip below $650 on Amazon, but their offerings are significantly heavier, lack range, and don’t come with a long-term warranty.
Swagtron’s EB12 is even less expensive, and has more features, though its overall build quality is even more, ahem, ‘budget friendly.’ The Propella 3.0 is currently our favorite budget electric bike, and the Schwinn Monroe 250 can’t top it. Though the two bikes offer similar performance and specifications, the Propella 3.0 has a more eye-catching design and feels more robust.
If you need additional recommendations, our guide to the best electric bikes has you covered.
How long will it last? I have concerns regarding the pedals and other minor components, including the stem, but they can be swapped out without much issue. Schwinn offers a lifetime warranty on both the frame and fork. The battery also comes with a 2-year warranty, which is double what most manufacturers offer.
On the plus side, the Monroe 250 isn’t a complex piece of hardware, nor is it one that’s reliant on future software updates. With a little upkeep and some small additions (think: fenders), it should easily last an upwards of 10 years. It will be easier, and less expensive, to fix than electric bikes with more complex, high-end components.
Should you buy it? Yes. The Schwinn Monroe 250 makes compromises, but it’s affordable, capable, and should be easy to maintain.
Editors' Recommendations The best electric bikes for 2023 Bosch Kiox and SmartphoneHub hands-on: The sleek displays e-bikes deserve Propella 3.0 ebike review: Cheap thrills Inside the high-tech lab that makes the world’s safest bike helmet Shimano’s trail-ripping eMTB tech will make you ditch analog bikes altogether Cars Emerging Tech e-Bikes eBike Reviews Emerging Tech Product Reviews Tech for Change The Food Fight Outdoors EcoFlow, a manufacturer of portable energy solutions, has announced the launch of the Delta 2 Max -- an eco-friendly solar generator that could replace your current gas generator. The device clocks in at 2,048 watts and should deliver enough power to keep your home running for two days as an emergency backup (or many more if you’re using it as an off-grid power source).
The original Delta Max was a popular item for outdoor adventures, as it could connect to the existing lineup of portable EcoFlow solar panels to juice up gadgets while out in the backcountry. That legacy continues with the Delta 2 Max, which features an upgraded lithium iron phosphate (LFP) battery for a longer life cycle and faster charging.
Outdoors Warm weather is here, and so is grilling season. Now is as good a time as any to set out in search of one of the best outdoor grills, and it’s never a bad time to keep an eye out for a discount on one as well. Whether you’re a grilling beginner ready for some burgers with the family or a seasoned pro looking to host summer gatherings around one of the best smart grills and smokers, we’ve tracked down all of the details you need to land a deal on a grill that’s right for your needs. Read onward for more details.
Everdure CUBE charcoal grill — $150, was $199 The Everdure CUBE charcoal grill is a unique little grill that can truly go almost anywhere with you. It’s lightweight and only 17-inches long, yet still can handle almost any grilling challenge a griller on the go could hope to throw at it. It has a built-in heat protection shield and chrome handles that remain cool while cooking, and the removable charcoal tray offers easy cleanup when you’re finished at the campground or on the beach. Wherever you intend to do some grilling this summer, the Everdure CUBE charcoal grill is a great option as a copilot.
Outdoors The best electric bikes have come a long way in recent years and we don't just mean in terms of the miles you travel. With technology changing quickly, there are also an increasing number of electric bike deals around and we've picked out some of the very best. Electric bikes are a great way of getting around more easily and without necessarily needing to use as much stamina as a regular bike. Below, you'll find fantastic e-bike bike deals from many different retailers. There'll be something for every need here. Let's take a look at them.
Jasion EB5 Electric Bike -- $430, was $750 With a 350w brushless motor, the Jasion EB5 Electric Bike can achieve a top speed of 20 MPH with a range of up to 25-40 miles per charge. It has four working modes with a PAS mode where the motor assists with a moderate amount of power as you pedal, along with a Pure Electric Mode, a Pedal Mode, and a Booster Mode where the bike assist on hills and anywhere else you might be struggling. 26-inch puncture-resistant tires provide excellent durability while there's a high-strength front fork suspension, Shimano 7-speed gears, dual lights, and an LCD display. The latter offers controls for adjustable backlight brightness with one of five levels, along with mode controls.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
