Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Outdoors Specialized Turbo Como 4.0 Review: Comfortably quick By Matthew S. Smith Close $3,350.00 Powerful and responsive mid-drive motor Attractive design Agile feel Good battery life Ride can be jittery at high speeds So-so app and LCD screen Every e-bike from Specialized has “turbo” preceding its name. It seems like a gimmick, especially when applied to bikes like the Turbo Como 4.0. The company’s marketing promises you’ll get where you going in stylish comfort, whether you’re grabbing groceries or going to work. Doesn’t sound “turbo,” does it? Excellent bike, so-so tech Our Take I didn’t think so. Then I rode the bike.
The star of this show is the 250-watt mid-drive motor, meaning it’s situated between the pedals. The power doesn’t sound like much on paper, but it’s connected to the rear wheel by a sturdy 10-speed drivetrain that makes maximum use of available wattage and, more importantly, delivers on demand. Less expensive electric bikes often suffer significant delay, but the Turbo Como 4.0 springs to life in the blink of an eye.
Rich Shibley/Digital Trends Power delivery is smooth, too, inspiring confidence and offering a natural feel. Riding the Turbo Como 4.0 doesn’t feel much different from riding a normal bike. You just go faster.
Mercedes-Benz rolls into micromobility market with foldable e-scooter Propella 3.0 ebike review: Cheap thrills Specialized’s new road ebike will cure your range anxiety for good How much faster depends on which of the three power settings you choose. I spent most of my time at Level 1, also known as Eco. At that setting, I could cruise at 16 to 20 miles per hour while still enjoying a workout. At level 3, though, I could easily hit 25 to 28 miles per hour on flat streets.
If anything, the Turbo Como 4.0 feels too fast.
 The bike’s wide tires offer a calm and comfortable ride below 20 miles per hour, but a bumpy road can overwhelm them as you pedal into the mid-20s. The jittery ride becomes uncomfortable after just a few minutes and will encourage you to slow your roll. An active suspension would help, but that’s not available on the Como.
Specialized’s integrated battery design keeps the center of gravity where it belongs. Under your butt.
Whatever speed you choose, and whatever road you tackle, the Turbo Como is more agile than you’d expect. Specialized’s integrated battery design keeps the center of gravity where it belongs – under your butt. The bike’s low weight helps, at it tips the scale at a modest 45 pounds. That’s 10 pounds less than a comparable bike from Pedego and more in line with the Swagtron EB12 , a less expensive bike with a small battery and motor.
Excellent bike, so-so tech Specialized has 45 years of experience designing bikes. The experience shows. The Turbo Como’s chubby look hints at its electric powertrain, but most people won’t know it’s an ebike until they take a second glance.
I think it’s one of the best designs in the business. Trek’s ebikes only hide the battery well in high-end configurations, while Giant’s style is eye-catching but also a bit gaudy. The Turbo Como and its cousin, the Turbo Vado, are the best lookers you’ll find under $5,000.
Rich Shibley/Digital Trends Attention has been paid to the details, as well. The brakes stop the bike quickly and actuate with a smooth, firm feel. The gears snap into places with confidence. The drivetrain is engineered to handle the extra torque of a mid-drive and lack the imprecise, sloppy sensation that can plague shifters on lesser ebikes.
The Turbo Como 4.0 has integrated lights and comes with fenders. A rack wasn’t included on our bike, but the more expensive Turbo Como 5.0 comes standard with a front rack. All Turbo Como models have rack mounts front and rear.
Specialized has less experience with consumer tech, and it shows. The Turbo Como 4.0 – which, remember, retails for $3,350 – has a small, disappointing black-and-white LCD. It’s readable and easy to use but lacks the sophistication or wow-factor I want to see. Color LCDs are not yet common but are available on high-end options from brands like Riese & Mueller and Gazelle. The lack of a sophisticated color LCD is not unusual in this class, but a disappointment I wish electric bikes would fix.
Rich Shibley/Digital Trends A lackluster screen can be forgiven if a decent app is included. Unfortunately, Specialized’s Mission Control app is nothing special. It offers diagnostics, ride tracking, and access to settings. It looks like something cooked up by programming students for a final project and could only connect to the bike I reviewed if stood inches away.
There is good news on the tech front, and it’s all about the battery. It offers a fat, visible power button on the downtube. You can’t miss it. You also can’t miss the charging port, which is right alongside the power button. An accessible charging point may sound basic, but too many ebikes put the power button and charging port in some far-flung position.
Specialized doesn’t make any precise claim about range, instead offering a calculator.
 That calculator claims I should expect 61 miles of range. In practice, the range seemed closer to 55 miles, which meant I had to charge once every four days. Most bikes in the Turbo Como 4.0’s price range promise similar range.
Our Take The Specialized Turbo Como 4.0 is fast, beautiful, and agile. It’s quick enough to feel fun, but practical enough for everyday commuting. You might think the price is steep at $3,350 but, if you compare it other bikes with similar features, it’s a good value. This bike that can get you to work day after day, rain or shine, and still put a small on your face.
Is there a better alternative? Trek’s Super Commuter+ 7 has similar specifications and features. Unlike the Turbo Como, it only comes in one trim, which sets you back $3,700. It’s nice bike, but the Como looks better and offers more for your money.
Giant’s alternative is the lewdly named Quick-e+ 1.
 Joking aside, it’s a good value at $3,150. That includes a rear rack and lights. It looks a bit cobbled together, however. You might choose the Giant if it’s on sale, but the Como is preferable if you’re paying MSRP.
It’s worth noting that while all the bikes above can be used by men or women, the Trek and Quick-e +1 seem less unisex in their sizing and marketing. Giant, in particular, siphons women towards its Liv brand. Specialized offers step-through Como models for people who want the look or convenience.
Want more options? Check out our favorite electric bikes.
How long will it last? The Turbo Como 4.0 will likely need a replacement battery after five years of regular use. I’m hopeful that Specialized will continue to offer replacements, though there’s no way to know for sure. The bike itself can last ten years or more if you keep on top of maintenance.
Should you buy it? Yes. The Specialized Turbo Como 4.0 is an excellent choice for commuters.
Editors' Recommendations The best electric bikes for 2023 Bosch Kiox and SmartphoneHub hands-on: The sleek displays e-bikes deserve The Karmic Oslo looks like an eibike Apple would design and build Cars Emerging Tech e-Bikes eBike Reviews Emerging Tech Product Reviews Tech for Change The Food Fight Outdoors EcoFlow, a manufacturer of portable energy solutions, has announced the launch of the Delta 2 Max -- an eco-friendly solar generator that could replace your current gas generator. The device clocks in at 2,048 watts and should deliver enough power to keep your home running for two days as an emergency backup (or many more if you’re using it as an off-grid power source).
The original Delta Max was a popular item for outdoor adventures, as it could connect to the existing lineup of portable EcoFlow solar panels to juice up gadgets while out in the backcountry. That legacy continues with the Delta 2 Max, which features an upgraded lithium iron phosphate (LFP) battery for a longer life cycle and faster charging.
Outdoors Warm weather is here, and so is grilling season. Now is as good a time as any to set out in search of one of the best outdoor grills, and it’s never a bad time to keep an eye out for a discount on one as well. Whether you’re a grilling beginner ready for some burgers with the family or a seasoned pro looking to host summer gatherings around one of the best smart grills and smokers, we’ve tracked down all of the details you need to land a deal on a grill that’s right for your needs. Read onward for more details.
Everdure CUBE charcoal grill — $150, was $199 The Everdure CUBE charcoal grill is a unique little grill that can truly go almost anywhere with you. It’s lightweight and only 17-inches long, yet still can handle almost any grilling challenge a griller on the go could hope to throw at it. It has a built-in heat protection shield and chrome handles that remain cool while cooking, and the removable charcoal tray offers easy cleanup when you’re finished at the campground or on the beach. Wherever you intend to do some grilling this summer, the Everdure CUBE charcoal grill is a great option as a copilot.
Outdoors The best electric bikes have come a long way in recent years and we don't just mean in terms of the miles you travel. With technology changing quickly, there are also an increasing number of electric bike deals around and we've picked out some of the very best. Electric bikes are a great way of getting around more easily and without necessarily needing to use as much stamina as a regular bike. Below, you'll find fantastic e-bike bike deals from many different retailers. There'll be something for every need here. Let's take a look at them.
Jasion EB5 Electric Bike -- $430, was $750 With a 350w brushless motor, the Jasion EB5 Electric Bike can achieve a top speed of 20 MPH with a range of up to 25-40 miles per charge. It has four working modes with a PAS mode where the motor assists with a moderate amount of power as you pedal, along with a Pure Electric Mode, a Pedal Mode, and a Booster Mode where the bike assist on hills and anywhere else you might be struggling. 26-inch puncture-resistant tires provide excellent durability while there's a high-strength front fork suspension, Shimano 7-speed gears, dual lights, and an LCD display. The latter offers controls for adjustable backlight brightness with one of five levels, along with mode controls.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
