Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Outdoors Swagtron EB12 electric bike review: The bare necessities Swagtron's EB12 pushes affordable ebikes to a new frontier By Matthew S. Smith Close $999.00 Attractive, classic style 7-speed drivetrain Lightweight Easy to maneuver Lacks disc brakes Low price means budget build quality Skinny tires Here’s the Swagtron EB12’s elevator pitch. It’s $1,000, and you can buy it now from select Best Buy stores.
Just enough power Easy rider Our Take That’s a good pitch. A grand isn’t much for an electric bike. You can find less expensive options online, but they’re not available in stores. Swagtron’s partnership with Best Buy offers the chance to see the bike before you buy it. You can also buy the bike online at Swagtron’s website.
Harley-Davidson rides into the e-bike segment with Serial 1 subbrand Blix drops e-bike prices in shift to selling exclusively online Electric Citi Bikes is returning to New York City with a price shake-up That may or may not work in Swagtron’s favor. The EB12’s design received mixed reviews in the Digital Trends office. Several staffers (myself included) liked its classic profile and blackout paintjob. Others thought it looked too generic and wore its price on its sleeve.
The signs of cost-cutting are obvious on close inspection. All cables are routed externally. The thin wheels and tires lack any brand identifier. The cast metal pedals wouldn’t look out of place on a bike three decades old.
Image used with permission by copyright holder My biggest gripe is the metal box that sits below the bottom bracket and contains some electronics. It’s a vulnerable place to store sensitive hardware, and while bike is rated IPX4 water resistant, or “splashproof,” I’m skeptical it would hold up in wet weather. It’d also take a beating if you mistakenly rode over a steep curb.
Despite these nitpicks, the Swagtron EB12 gave us no trouble in our tests. It worked exactly as it should. That might seem faint praise, but hey. It’s $1,000. Swagtron makes sacrifices to hit that price, but those sacrifices didn’t create problems on the road.
Just enough power A 250-watt rear hub motor connected to a 7-speed drivetrain propels the Swagtron to its top speed of 16 miles per hour, obtainable with pedal assist or throttle alone. That’s not a lot of power. You won’t have trouble in the flats, but modest hills can slow your swagger.
You won’t have trouble in the flats, but modest hills can slow your swagger.
The meager motor is no doubt responsible for the Swagtron EB12’s low top speed. The Pedego City Commuter Lite can hit 20 miles per hour, while the Propella 3.0 maxes out at 18 miles per hour. Clearly, the EB12 won’t win a race.
That’s perhaps for the best, because the Swagtron EB12 comes with rim brakes instead of discs, a telltale sign of the cost-cutting necessary to sell an electric bike for $1,000. Most electric bikes , and most conventional bikes sold for $1,000 or more, have discs. The rim brakes grab fine but lack the secure feel of disc brakes, and will be less effective when wet.
Riley Young/Digital Trends Swagtron promises the EB12 can cruise for 28 miles, and that figure proved accurate. Range is always subject to conditions like temperature and elevation, but most of our rides were short commutes under five miles each way. The bike could handle several days before needing a charge. The EB12’s range is on the low end for an electric bike, but not unusual for the price point. Propella’s 3.0 lists similar range.
There’s a silver lining to the range: a small battery. Small batteries weigh less than big ones, which keeps the bike’s total weight just under 40 pounds. Propella’s bike is lighter, but most alternatives are heavier, often significantly so. Ecotric’s cut-rate fat tire bike is 58 pounds, Pedego’s City Commuter Lite is 55 pounds, and Schwinn’s Monroe 250 is 42 pounds. You’ll love its lack of heft if you ever need to haul the EB12 up a flight of stairs.
Easy rider Swagtron advertises the EB12 as a city bike. Most people will just call it a bike. Its flat handlebars, semi-upright position, and thin 25c tires won’t turn heads. In truth, bikes commonly sold at bike shops today don’t look like this. The Swagtron’s style is, if anything, a bit retro.
That makes the Swagtron EB12 an easy bike to ride. Its controls are simple, and it encourages a mostly upright position that keeps your head up and focused on traffic. The frame felt solid, offering good control over bumps with minimal chatter and dampened vibration.
Riley Young/Digital Trends The EB12’s thin tires are the biggest obstacle to total comfort. Bikes have veered towards fatter tires in recent years. Riders prefer their comfort and confidence over bumpy surfaces. Most electric bikes offer thicker tires than the Swagtron. The Propella 3.0 has 32c tires, as does Schwinn’s Monroe line.
It’s not fast, but it is agile, and that fits the city bike theme.
Still, the ride is pleasant enough even on broken pavement, and the bike tracks well. It’s not fast, but it is agile, and that fits the city bike theme. This is a bike you can confidently weave between pedestrians or thread through a narrow side-street.
Our Take The Swagtron EB12 isn’t a great electric bike, but it does the job for significantly less than you’d normally expect to pay. If you need an ebike for a daily commute, you should fork out the extra $500 to $1,000 to buy a model with better equipment. However, the EB12 is a solid pick if you only take a few short trips each week.
Are there better alternatives? Propella’s 3.0 is an excellent option.
Our own Kraig Becker loved the Propella 2.2 , and the newer 3.0 model is the same electric bike with a few tweaks. The Propella 3.0 is lighter, more attractive, and has disc brakes. The catch? The $1,000 model is single-speed. The 7-speed model is a $300 upgrade.
You can find more affordable bikes on Amazon from brands like Ecotric and Ancheer. The prices go as low as $600 for a full-size bike. Those bikes tend to be heavy, however, and often have flaws you might not notice until you own them.
The $625 Ancheer quotes a range of only 25 to 50 kilometers. That works out to between 15 and 31 miles.
Our guide to the best electric bikes offers more recommendations.
How long will it last? The Swagtron EB12 is a simple ebike that should be easy to maintain. It could last 10 years or more if treated well. I do worry about the electronics box under the bottom bracket. Jumping the wrong curb could damage it, and I doubt repairs would be easy.
Should you buy it? Yes. The Swagtron EB12 pushes the frontiers of ebike affordability, offering a full-featured electric bike that’s easy to ride for just $1,000.
Editors' Recommendations The best electric bikes for 2023 Bosch Kiox and SmartphoneHub hands-on: The sleek displays e-bikes deserve REI’s Cyber Monday sale still includes massive price cuts on Electric Bikes Amazon discounts Elby electric bicycle by $1,000 ahead of Black Friday Spinciti’s Amsterdam e-bike offers speed and range at an affordable price Cars Emerging Tech e-Bikes eBike Reviews Emerging Tech Product Reviews News Vintage Electric announced a limited-edition high-performance e-bike just ahead of the November 15, 2019, theater release of Ford v Ferrari. The film recounts the full-on effort by Carroll Shelby to build a Ford race car to take on Ferrari, the perennial winner of the 24 Hours of Le Mans in France in 1966. The Vintage Electric Shelby is a 36-mph e-bike with paint, finishes, and design details closely fashioned after the auto builder's personal 289 Cobra.
Introducing the Limited Edition Vintage Electric Shelby Bicycle Vintage Electric founder and lead designer Andrew Davidge consulted with Aaron Shelby, the auto legend's grandson, while developing the limited edition. Inspired by the 289 Cobra, the Vintage Electric Shelby has matching blue metallic N6 paint with matte black racing stripes, the Shelby logo, and Cobra badging.
Outdoors When I reviewed the Propella 2.2 ebike earlier in the year, I thought it was a fun commuter. While I wasn't overly impressed with its range and component set, I did feel that the 2.2 was a lightweight and affordable option for those looking to jump into the ebike market.
Fast forward a few months, and Propella has introduced an updated 3.0 version, which brings some nice refinements to a solid product.
Emerging Tech Previous Next Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
