Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Outdoors Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Ubco 2×2 review: Mountain goat By Mitchell Nicholson Close $6,999.00 Light yet sturdy design Excellent range Easy to ride Handles well on or off-road Never feels powerful Expensive for an electric moped I cruised through my local neighborhood on the way to a buddy’s house with the soft whirl of dual electric motors buzzing beneath me. As I passed open garages and kids on bicycles, I saw more waves in a 10-minute excursion than I’ve received in the last year. People were genuinely excited to see something different coming down the road, and the Ubco 2×2 delivers ‘different’ in spades. With its aluminum trellis frame, knobby tires, and fat seat, the Ubco 2×2 looks like the star of a Pixar film.
Not too big, not too small The right speed There’s an app, of course What’s it for, anyway? Warranty information Our take Oddly enough, this utilitarian freedom machine was built for New Zealand farmers. The 2×2 was intended to withstand the rigors of daily chores across a rugged mountain landscape, but it also found a home with the two-wheeled recreation crowd.
That spurred Ubco to morph the 2×2 into the moped it is today. Being a moped carries a few requirements from the manufacturer like turn signals, mirrors, a headlight, and a maximum top speed of 30 miles per hour.While an off-road version is available, the road-going 2×2 is one of the friendliest neighborhood runabouts I’ve ever experienced.
Not too big, not too small What makes the Ubco 2×2 friendly is its weight, or lack thereof. At 144 pounds, the 2×2 is unique. Even the smallest gas-powered scooters tip the 200lb mark, while e-bikes usually don’t exceed 70 pounds.
 The weight of the 2×2 gives it the heft to handle bumps with ease, but it’s light enough to feel approachable and nimble.
The notion that you can put a foot down in case things get hairy is comforting to a lot of riders.
Intimidation keeps a lot of people off of motorcycles. Maneuvering can be tricky for new riders, especially at low speeds. That’s where the Ubco 2×2 shines, because the chief benefit to something being light, besides increased range, is the confidence it inspires while riding. The notion that you can put a foot down in case things get hairy is comforting to a lot of riders.
The right speed The Ubco 2×2 also inspires confidence with its modest power. The electric motor can put out 2.4kWh, which equals about 3.2 horsepower. That absurd lack of ponies is countered with a more impressive 66 ft-lb of torque. The result is power that dances the line between ‘as expected’ and ‘underwhelming.’ While the initial rush of torque is exciting, the Ubco 2×2’s pace is always peaceful.
Braking, on the other hand, exceeded my expectations. The Tektro-brand brakes look similar to what I’ve seen used on mountain bikes, but Ubco activates them with electric motors. The 2×2 actually uses regenerative braking to help improve battery range, while at the same time providing a simulated engine braking function that helps when you need to stop immediately.
Speaking of battery life, range anxiety is nearly nonexistent. With a 175lb rider going 20.2 mph, the 2×2 has a quoted range of 75 miles. Based on my usage as a 190lb rider trying to go 30 mph everywhere I went, 55 miles is a more reasonable estimate. I know 55 miles doesn’t sound like a lot, but this is a moped. It’s meant for short trips. I only had to charge the 2×2 once a week. Even my longest trip only used half the battery.
There’s an app, of course Image used with permission by copyright holder Your real-time battery usage is made clear by the readout on the 2x2s dash, but for those looking for a little bit of additional, info the Ubco app provides a look into the bike’s different settings, motor temps, and regenerative braking usage. Once the 2×2 is on the charger, 0-90% takes six hours to charge, with the last 10% taking two hours.
What’s it for, anyway? The Ubco 2×2 may have its root in off-road use, but I quickly found this moped isn’t built for tearing up trails. The suspension becomes overwhelmed on rough terrain if pushed. It’s happier between 10-15 mph while off-road.
Once I realized this and stopped acting like a hooligan, not only did the 2×2 get easier to ride because the front tire wasn’t spinning out, but I started enjoying the peace and quiet while meandering through the countryside. With that said, I found myself wishing I could adjust the power output of the motors, which is set at a 50/50 distribution to the front and back.
Being able to adjust the power would give the 2×2 an opportunity for rowdier characteristics, although maybe that’s missing the point. The 2×2 is a thoughtful explorer that’s built to traverse the great outdoors reliably, not quickly.
Image used with permission by copyright holder For someone like myself who sees two-wheeled machines as a way to push the limits of speed and traction, the 2×2 is certainly limited in power and ability.
The 2×2’s goal is to provide an easy ride for people who want to explore the joys of motorcycling freedom without the hassle a motorcycle endorsement. That’s what makes the 2×2 special. It’s the friendliest way to test the waters.
If you can afford to take the plunge.
The Ubco 2×2 MSRPs for $6,999.
 That’s a lot for an electric moped, and it underscores Ubco’s niche appeal. It may be easy to ride, but the Ubco 2×2 isn’t trying to appeal to everyone. It targets a specific group of adventure seekers who crave a reliable, fun moped — and are willing to pay for it.
Warranty information There’s a 12-month warranty on the bike and accessories with a 24-month warranty on the power supply.
Our take The Ubco 2×2 does exactly what it was intended to do. The trick is figuring out that intention and understanding that it isn’t a dirt bike, but rather a meandering mountain goat for the dirt and a zippy residential runabout on the streets. Ultimately, it’s a niche moped that’s too expensive for most riders.
Is there a better alternative? Electric two-wheeled exploration is on the rise. Other options include the Gotrax G2 electric scooter and Zero Motorcycles ’ full lineup of electric steeds. The Ubco fits somewhere in between, but you’ll be hard-pressed to find anything with its mix of two-wheel drive, moped classification, and range.
How long will it last? The frame and components on the Ubco 2×2 look to be nearly bulletproof, so our only concern is the battery and motors. Thankfully, Ubco has done their research when it comes to batteries and incorporated an automotive class battery from Panasonic. This means that after 500 charge cycles the battery is expected to drop 20% of its charge capability, which translates to 3.5 years if you’re using the 2×2 for daily commuting.
The advent of the Ubco app helps with firmware updates to keep things running smoothly and catch any issues, like overheating motors, before they become a problem.
Should you buy it? No, unless it exactly fits what you need.
Editors' Recommendations Mercedes-Benz rolls into micromobility market with foldable e-scooter Cars Emerging Tech eBike Reviews Emerging Tech Product Reviews Tech for Change The Food Fight Outdoors EcoFlow, a manufacturer of portable energy solutions, has announced the launch of the Delta 2 Max -- an eco-friendly solar generator that could replace your current gas generator. The device clocks in at 2,048 watts and should deliver enough power to keep your home running for two days as an emergency backup (or many more if you’re using it as an off-grid power source).
The original Delta Max was a popular item for outdoor adventures, as it could connect to the existing lineup of portable EcoFlow solar panels to juice up gadgets while out in the backcountry. That legacy continues with the Delta 2 Max, which features an upgraded lithium iron phosphate (LFP) battery for a longer life cycle and faster charging.
Outdoors Warm weather is here, and so is grilling season. Now is as good a time as any to set out in search of one of the best outdoor grills, and it’s never a bad time to keep an eye out for a discount on one as well. Whether you’re a grilling beginner ready for some burgers with the family or a seasoned pro looking to host summer gatherings around one of the best smart grills and smokers, we’ve tracked down all of the details you need to land a deal on a grill that’s right for your needs. Read onward for more details.
Everdure CUBE charcoal grill — $150, was $199 The Everdure CUBE charcoal grill is a unique little grill that can truly go almost anywhere with you. It’s lightweight and only 17-inches long, yet still can handle almost any grilling challenge a griller on the go could hope to throw at it. It has a built-in heat protection shield and chrome handles that remain cool while cooking, and the removable charcoal tray offers easy cleanup when you’re finished at the campground or on the beach. Wherever you intend to do some grilling this summer, the Everdure CUBE charcoal grill is a great option as a copilot.
Outdoors The best electric bikes have come a long way in recent years and we don't just mean in terms of the miles you travel. With technology changing quickly, there are also an increasing number of electric bike deals around and we've picked out some of the very best. Electric bikes are a great way of getting around more easily and without necessarily needing to use as much stamina as a regular bike. Below, you'll find fantastic e-bike bike deals from many different retailers. There'll be something for every need here. Let's take a look at them.
Jasion EB5 Electric Bike -- $430, was $750 With a 350w brushless motor, the Jasion EB5 Electric Bike can achieve a top speed of 20 MPH with a range of up to 25-40 miles per charge. It has four working modes with a PAS mode where the motor assists with a moderate amount of power as you pedal, along with a Pure Electric Mode, a Pedal Mode, and a Booster Mode where the bike assist on hills and anywhere else you might be struggling. 26-inch puncture-resistant tires provide excellent durability while there's a high-strength front fork suspension, Shimano 7-speed gears, dual lights, and an LCD display. The latter offers controls for adjustable backlight brightness with one of five levels, along with mode controls.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
