Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Deals Home Depot’s new Kidde Smoke + Carbon Monoxide Wi-Fi alarm is made for your smart home By Briley Kenney Close Image used with permission by copyright holder It’s always exciting to see new devices introduced to the modern age, particularly with useful smart features. Like Home Depot’s newest smart home device, the Kidde Smoke + Carbon Monoxide Alarm with smart features. It offers an excellent selection of useful features, integrations, and beyond — it even works with Amazon Alexa and Google Assistant.
Why Kidde is perfect for your smart home When will the Kidde Wi-Fi alarm be available? It is a Wi-Fi-enabled, smart smoke and carbon monoxide alarm that syncs up with other Kidde alarms in your home as long as they are interconnected via hardwire. It’s hardwired, but unlike a standard alarm, has a 10-year backup battery. Most importantly, it delivers alerts, notifications, and information right to where you are, your mobile device, thanks to a Kidde mobile app. Why would you want a smart alarm with a mobile app? It can send alerts to you directly when something is amiss. From within your home, you can deactivate false alarms much quicker, especially if you have vaulted ceilings, without the need for a ladder or step stool. You can also set up the app to notify other important contacts like friends and family. The best part is that it’s available at a fraction of the cost of its competitors, like Nest, First Alert Onelink, and so on. The Kidde smart alarm is just $90 ($89.97), compared to Nest Protect which is $119 for just the hardware.
Why Kidde is perfect for your smart home Image used with permission by copyright holder Starting with the Amazon Alexa and Google Assistant support built-in, you’ll be able to query the alarm using voice commands and by interacting with your voice assistant of choice. That’s perfect for setting up automations and tasks using your existing smart home solutions. Plus, the Kidde Wi-Fi alarm can be interconnected with other, in-home alarms, and it will convert all of those alarms into connected devices — provided they are from Kidde and interconnected via hardwire. Basically, it means whole home alarm activation, so that when one alarm goes off, they will all go off and send a mobile notification using the Kidde app. However, you will only get limited information and control of the interconnected hardwired alarms — only smoke or CO event notifications. To have more control over your home and notification on all alarms, Kidde recommends installing multiple Wi-Fi enabled alarms.
After installing the Kidde Wi-Fi alarm, and downloading the app, you can access it and mobile notifications from the Kidde app. No more digging out the ladder to interact with the Kidde smoke or CO alarm, it can all be done remotely. Since the Kidde smart alarm is hardwired with a lithium-sealed 10-year backup battery out of the box, there’s no need to change batteries. After ten years, you just replace the unit. Back to the mobile app, you can use it to check sensors and readings, to send an app-controlled test signal — to make sure the alarm is working — and disable false alarms when it goes off. You can keep your kids and pets happy by disabling the alarm from your phone — at home — much faster when it goes off late at night.
Because you can check in using the mobile app, it means you can also monitor your home from afar, or check in on your family. If you’re on a business trip, on vacation, or just visiting a neighbor, you’ll stay connected to what’s going on inside your home, at least when it comes to a potential fire or CO leak. Alerts give you enough time to get everyone to safety, take the necessary precautions, and call for help, wherever applicable. Every year, on average around 430 people in the U.S. die from accidental carbon monoxide (CO) poisoning, and about 50,000 people visit the ER for CO poisoning incidents. That’s precisely why alarms like the Kidde exist. Now you can receive alerts no matter where you are, potentially saving lives.
When will the Kidde Wi-Fi alarm be available? The Kidde Wi-Fi smart alarm was available for purchase on December 12th, at The Home Depot both online and in-store.
Editors' Recommendations The Lorex New Year Sale is the perfect opportunity to upgrade your home security Take advantage of big savings on Lorex smart home security systems thanks to this sale Get affordable smart lighting coverage for your entire home, thanks to Vont Why you need Kidde’s New Smoke + Carbon Monoxide Wi-Fi Alarm with smart features Save big on smart home gear during Lorex’s holiday sale! Smart Home Genius Home Deals At the risk of sounding real repetitive, you don't want to miss all of these Black Friday and holiday deals that are live. Nearly all retailers are offering some amazing discounts right now, not just to keep up with the competition, but also to keep up with the market. The microchip shortage, supply chain issues, shipping delays, and a host of other problems mean that if and when you can find items in stock, there's a chance you may not see it in time for the holidays. But if you're looking for smart home gear, Lorex has a lot available, and its offering some fantastically-low prices for Black Friday.
Thanks to the current promotion, you can take advantage of 50% of sitewide when using coupon code BF2021 at checkout -- which is valid from now until November 28th. Lorex also has a ton of smart home and home security devices on sale already, and to make things a little easier, we've rounded up all of the best deals, below! If you want to shop yourself though, you can do that too.
Deals Lorex, one of the biggest names in home security equipment, has a sale on right now and there are some big savings to be had. Whether you're simply looking for an individual security camera for inside your home or you're looking to invest in a full security system of cameras for both indoors and outdoors, there are some fantastic deals available via Lorex right now. Lorex equipment comes with a 30-day money-back guarantee as standard. Unlike many other security devices, there are no monthly fees to worry about because a MicroSD comes pre-installed, offering local storage and playback opportunities. Once you buy, it's all yours. Let's take a look through some of the highlights of the Lorex sale so you can make your home safer in no time.
Lorex 1080p Full HD Smart Indoor Wi-Fi Security Camera -- $35, was $40 Normally priced at $40, the Lorex 1080p Full HD Smart Indoor Wi-Fi Security Camera is an ideal quick indoor monitoring solution for your apartment or home. Designed for easy installation and straightforward remote viewing, you can use it in conjunction with the Lorex Home app to always see what's going on at home. It has full 1080p HD resolution, 2-way talk, plus infrared night vision, and person detection technology so it has all the basics covered. The 115-degree wide angle diagonal field of view means you can monitor an expansive area, plus the flexible camera head can bend up to 90 degrees. A 16GB MicroSD comes pre-installed for storing content. There's support for Google Assistant and Alexa, too.
Deals When most people think of smart homes, they think of things like video doorbell deals that require some effort to set up. However, you don't need to install a complex, interconnected home system to turn some of your electric gadgets into smart devices. Sometimes, all you need are a few handy plugs, a Wi-Fi connection, and a mobile phone, and you can turn everything from your desk lamp to your electric keyboard into a smart device. That's why we're excited to share this amazing deal on the TP-Link Kasa Smart Wi-Fi Plug Mini that's available right now at Best Buy. You can get one of these handy smart plugs for only $10, shaving off $8 from the original price of $18.
The first thing you'll notice about the TP-Link Kasa Smart Plugs is their size. At a thickness of just 1.5 inches, they're discreet, look great, and offer a lot of functionality without taking up a lot of space. They're also not big enough to take up adjacent space on the outlets next to them, which is a common problem among bigger smart plugs. Because of their size, they're a great fit for smaller spaces, such as college dorm rooms. Their versatility also makes them great for busy students since you can essentially swap out which electronics you want to turn into a smart device at any time.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
