Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Deals Kidde’s Smoke + Carbon Monoxide Smart Alarm offers connected protection for less By Briley Kenney Close Image used with permission by copyright holder Keeping your family safe is a daunting task. There are dangers outside the home, and dangers that can occur inside the home, too. Fires, hazardous chemicals, carbon monoxide leaks, are just a few examples, but they can also be tough to monitor. When you leave your kids home alone, or furry little Fifi, you want to make absolutely sure they’re safe.
While it’s impossible to know everything that’s going on, smart home technology, or rather a smart detection system, can help you keep an eye on at least some of that, regardless of whether you’re at home or away. Kidde is introducing an excellent solution, called the Kidde Smoke + Carbon Monoxide Wi-Fi Alarm with Smart Features. More importantly, it’s internet-ready and connects to your local Wi-Fi, something your average smoke or CO alarm cannot do. Once installed, you can receive alerts through a mobile app on your smartphone if there is a smoke or CO event, but you can also interact with it remotely from anywhere within your home. When your kids burn the grilled cheese or macaroni, and the alarm goes off, you can check to make sure everything’s okay, and if it’s not, you can kick it into high gear and call in every emergency service known to humankind.
It’s useful outside of major events and emergencies too! For example, if the smoke alarm goes off and it’s a false alarm you can turn it off directly from your phone, when you’re at home on the same Wi-Fi. There’s no need to climb up to where the unit is installed and press a button — or get out the broom and start playing Quidditch to shut the darn thing up. More importantly, you can invite friends and family to receive notifications, so your support group will be notified in an emergency.
Save on everything from laptops and tablets, to coffee makers and air purifiers, and a whole host of Apple tech like iPad, Apple Watch and even the latest M3 MacBooks, as well as smart home essentials like the Amazon Echo and smart bulbs.
Like standard alarms, Kidde’s Wi-Fi alarm will sound when there’s a problem or elevated levels are detected, and that works even when there’s no wireless connection. So, if there’s a power or internet outage you don’t need to fret that the system isn’t going to work, it will send that hallmark loud sound if it senses something is wrong.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Not only can you deactivate false alarms from within the app, but also you can start app-controlled tests to make sure the device is working properly, when you’re at home. It gives you peace of mind, especially if you’re worried that the alarm won’t perform during an emergency. You can set off that test and check your family’s reaction, make sure everyone can hear it, and devise an action plan. If you have other Kidde interconnected hardwired alarms in your home, the Wi-Fi smart alarm will be interconnected with them. It effectively turns them into “connected” devices. Besides being hardwired, it also features a lithium-sealed 10-year battery so there’s no need to change batteries! At the end of those 10-years you just replace the unit. If you’ve ever had to change the battery in a smoke alarm, in a home with vaulted ceilings, at 3 a.m. with a bunch of cranky people yelling at you, then you know exactly how much of a nightmare that can be! Because it connects to your home Wi-Fi network, it will also deliver real-time notifications to your mobile device. If you’re away from home, on vacation, you’ll still receive alerts about what’s happening. You could check in remotely using the app, or even call a neighbor, friend, or family member to go check on your home. If need be, you can also call the authorities or emergency services. Fifi, the kids, your husband, whoever is there is safer from potential fire or CO hazards. It even works with Amazon Alexa and Google Assistant.
But this is a smart home device we’re talking about, with Wi-Fi access, a mobile app, and lots of great features. You’d expect that to mean it’s expensive and there are costly subscription services to pay for, as well. That’s not the case at all here. In fact, the Kidde Smoke + Carbon Monoxide Wi-Fi Alarm with Smart Features is available for a fraction of the cost of its competitors. Comparing it to Google’s Nest Protect system, for example, the Kidde alarm is just $90 ($89.97) versus Nest Protect’s $119, for the hardware alone. That’s a great deal even at full price.
So, the Kidde Wi-Fi smart alarm has a long list of awesome features, and it costs less than the competition, surely there’s an inordinate fee or subscription to worry about? No, actually there’s not. Once installed, and the app is downloaded, you can access all features on the Kidde smart alarm at no extra cost, and, again, it’s much cheaper than similar devices. You’ll be primed for real-time notifications, from your smart alarm, with the option to check in from anywhere, and any location. You will need Wi-Fi network availability on the device, and an active Wi-Fi or cellular signal, as well.
Kidde’s new alarm is set to launch in December exclusively at The Home Depot in select stores and online.
Editors' Recommendations Amazon is having a big sale on August smart locks – from $127 Home Depot’s new Kidde Smoke + Carbon Monoxide Wi-Fi alarm is made for your smart home Smart Home Genius Home Audio / Video Black Friday is here, earlier than ever this year. Retailers are starting to shower the interwebs with early Black Friday deals, discounts, and promotions galore. Now is really one of the best times of the year to capitalize on those huge savings, whether you need a new smart TV, a new laptop, a game console, or just about anything else, even if they're not electronics. As for your home theater setup, if you're looking to upgrade your TV to a 4K, 8K, or just a better set, have we got some offers for you.
Sony Black Friday deals include some great offers in OLED TV Black Friday deals and QLED TV Black Friday deals, so check those out below, then pair your new display with one of the best Black Friday soundbar deals or a gaming console with PS5 Black Friday deals. We've rounded up all of the best Sony TV Black Friday deals we could find on a host of models and styles. The smallest TV in this article is 43-inches, so check out the best 32-inch TV Black Friday deals if you need a mini option. For bigger options, check out 55-inch TV Black Friday deals, 70-inch TV Black Friday deals and some of the offers in Amazon Black Friday deals.
Best Sony TV Black Friday deals on 4K TVs Computing It's Black Friday, which means it is time to give expensive tech products and fun, but expensive, toys a second look. The right Black Friday deals are there to take these categories of products down in price. Where these categories of expensive tech and cool toys collide is the Meta Quest 2, a VR headset, and sure enough, it has a good sale going on over at Amazon right now. Normally $300, its price has dropped by $51 down to just $249, one of the best VR headset Black Friday deals we've seen. The really good news? This deal is here now, so you don't have to wait to buy it like you will with the rest of your post Thanksgiving shopping. In fact, if you tap the button below and buy now, and with a little shipping luck, you might have it by Thanksgiving to play with your family.
Why you should buy the Meta Quest 2 The Meta Quest 2, which dominated Steam last year, is a VR headset that gives a full 360 field of view, allows you to experience 3D positional audio, and has over 500 compatible titles between gaming, fitness, and other experiences. If you're a Twitch viewer, you may recognize it from streamers playing Meta Quest 2 games like Beat Saber or the somewhat ironically humorous Among Us VR. It refreshes at 120Hz and gives each eye a view of 1832 x 1920p.
Computing Black Friday deals have brought with them some awesome laptop deals so you can save big on everything from a budget-priced Chromebook to a high-end gaming laptop. We'd be remiss if we didn't also mention the Amazon Black Friday laptop deals guide, there are a lot of good discounts on there, too. If you've been waiting to upgrade your current rig, this is your chance. There are so many options out there that we've picked out some of our favorites so you can easily find the right laptop for your needs and your budget. This list does not include Black Friday MacBook deals, so make sure you check those out too. Here's a look at all the highlights.
Top 3 Black Friday laptop deals HP 17-inch laptop -- $250, was $500 Currently heavily discounted as part of HP laptop Black Friday deals, the HP 17-inch laptop is ideal for anyone on a slim budget. It looks more expensive than it is thanks to having a 17-inch HD+ screen with 1600 x 900 and 250 nits of brightness. That extra room also means the keyboard is roomier with a numeric pad to the right of it that's ideal for entering a lot of data. The laptop has an AMD Athlon Gold 7220U processor along with 8GB of memory and 128GB of SSD storage. It also has a lift-hinge to ensure you can type at a more natural position.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
