Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Deals Why you need Kidde’s New Smoke + Carbon Monoxide Wi-Fi Alarm with smart features By Briley Kenney Close Image used with permission by copyright holder Available now exclusively at The Home Depot, the Kidde Wi-Fi smart alarm will modernize smoke and carbon monoxide (CO) alarms. The best smart home devices make life simpler, and safer, and that’s where Kidde fits in. Undoubtedly, you have some questions about what it is, what it can do, and why you would want one? Who needs a smoke or CO alarm connected to the internet? Those are great questions.
A standard smoke or CO alarm helps keep you, your family, and your home safe from potential hazards. Every year, an average of 430 people in the U.S. die from accidental CO poisoning, and about 50,000 people visit the ER for CO poisoning incidents. So, it’s a pretty concerning issue, but that’s precisely why your home is already outfitted with a bunch of these devices.
As the name suggests, the Kidde alarm is a Wi-Fi-ready, smart smoke and CO alarm. Your average alarms do not have that feature. Basically, that allows you to check your alarm from anywhere in your home with a mobile app, but also to receive real-time notifications about what’s happening inside your home.
You can also Smart Hush® the smoke alarm from within the app. That is phenomenal when you’re startled awake at 4 a.m. because of an alarm, and everyone is screaming and crying about the noise, and you just want to get back to sleep. You can check and confirm there’s no real fire then turn off the noise. You don’t have to go seek out a ladder in the dark, or stub any of your appendages while lugging it back into the house and getting it propped up. Instead, you can just Smart Hush® it in the Kidde mobile app on your phone.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Using the Kidde app, you can check alerts, interact with the device, and much more. It syncs up with Amazon Alexa and Google Assistant too, allowing you to interact with voice commands. You’ll get real-time updates about your Wi-Fi alarm through the app, even if you’re away. So, when you’re sipping on a delicious margarita or daiquiri, and a fleeting thought enters your mind about whether or not you left the oven on, and potentially burned down your beloved home, you can just grab your phone and check-in. It’s that simple.
Additional app features include an option to send out an app-controlled test signal while you’re home, to make sure the alarm is working properly. Yes, Dads, you can use that to scare everyone when you’re feeling devious. You’ll get mobile notifications if smoke or CO are detected in the home. You can also set it up so that friends and family receive notifications too, just in case there’s an emergency. Get that house sitter of yours more proactive and make sure they’re getting alerts about potential incidents. Come on, Susan! If you have Kidde hardwired interconnected alarms in your home, you can connect them with the Wi-Fi alarm so that when one goes off — even if it’s not the Wi-Fi alarm — they all will sound and send a mobile notification. While that is a great feature, Kidde still recommends multiple Wi-Fi-enabled alarms for full functionality and control. The Kidde Smoke + Carbon Monoxide Alarm with smart features also comes hardwired with a 10-year backup battery, so you don’t have to change it at all. At the end of 10 years, you simply replace the unit. Honestly, changing smoke alarm batteries is the worst. It’s worth grabbing the Kidde alarm for that feature alone! Above all, it’s much cheaper than its competitors. The Kidde is $90 ($89.97), for instance, compared to Nest Protect’s $119 price tag for just the hardware. It will be available at The Home Depot starting December 12.
Editors' Recommendations Kidde’s Smoke + Carbon Monoxide Smart Alarm offers connected protection for less Why you need this ultra-secure mesh Wi-Fi router right now Smart Home Genius Home Mobile If you want a new phone this fall, you aren't alone. The season is just ripe for it with Black Friday deals arriving at every store and hitting every brand. What's more is that you don't have to wait, there are so many Black Friday phone deals going on now that you can pick something up any time you like. For example, we're investing Google's Pixel 8 and Pixel 8 Pro phones and, yeah, the deals are on. For example, as part of Best Buy Black Friday deals you can save $150 on an unlocked Google Pixel 8 (128GB, upgradeable), dropping its price from $699 to $549. Meanwhile, you can save $200 on an unlocked Google Pixel 8 Pro (128GB, upgradeable), dropping the price from $999 to $799. To take advantage of either of these, the most enticing Google Pixel Black Friday deals, tap the corresponding button below.
Google Pixel 8 -- $549, was $699: Google Pixel 8 Pro -- $799, was $999 Entertainment December is quickly approaching, and if you have a Star Wars or Lego lover in your life, then this Lego Star Wars advent calendar is the perfect gift to get them. While there isn't a big discount on it during these Black Friday deals, you can still grab it from Walmart for $34 instead of $50, saving yourself a cool $11. Also, the sooner you pick it up, the better so that your loved one (or yourself) can start it as soon as it's time to.
Why you should buy the Lego Star Wars advent calendar It's not often you see something as unique and fun as the Lego Star Wars advent calendar, especially since it doesn't seem like a product that doesn't have any thought put into it. Everything that comes in the advent calendar is self-contained, meaning you don't need to have additional Lego sets or anything to enjoy it. So this can be a great first introduction to Star Wars and Lego for kids or even a great gift for adults who don't usually collect Legos but can have a nice and fun experience without too much buy-in in terms of time.
Gaming If you've been waiting for a discount on the PlayStation 5 before finally buying it, you should check out the Walmart Black Friday sale. The retailer is offering $61 discounts on a pair of PS5 bundles that include a copy of Marvel's Spider-Man 2 or Call of Duty: Modern Warfare III, so instead of $560, you'll only have to pay $499. There's no telling how long these PS5 Black Friday deals will last though, as demand for the console is still pretty high. If you're interested in taking advantage of the lowered price of either bundle, you'll have to proceed with the purchase immediately as stocks may be gone sooner than you think.
PlayStation 5 Disc Console - Marvel's Spider-Man 2 bundle -- $499, was $560 This PlayStation 5 bundle comes with the original version of the console with an 825GB hard drive, not the new model with a 1TB hard drive, so you may want to also check out the available PS5 SSD Black Friday deals for extra storage space. The game that comes with it, Marvel's Spider-Man 2, continues the story of Marvel's Spider-Man and Marvel's Spider-Man: Miles Morales, with Peter Parker and Miles Morales teaming up once again to take down Venom. The open-world adventure takes advantage of the PS5's DualSense wireless controller by using haptic feedback with Peter Parker's symbiote abilities and Miles Morales' bio-electric skills, and by utilizing its adaptive triggers to unleash a full range of moves and combos on your enemies.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
