Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Smart Home Features Step inside a stylish, self-sustaining California villa By Digital Trends Staff Close In episode 2 of Genius Home , our intrepid hosts Caleb Denison and Ariana Escalante take us on a tour of a Southern California home that’s truly on a different level. In addition to being automated and boasting state-of-the-art appliances, it’s also completely self-sufficient and produces all of its own energy. Here’s a quick rundown of the highlights.
Image used with permission by copyright holder First of all, the house’s design is nothing short of stunning. It has a bright, open, Mediterranean-inspired aesthetic that stylishly straddles the line between classic and modern. You’d be forgiven for not noticing that it’s absolutely stuffed with cutting-edge tech, as the home’s designers clearly took great care to ensure that the technological touches were integrated in a way that’s seamless and unobtrusive.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Take the kitchen, for example. At first glance, it doesn’t appear to be particularly sophisticated — at least technologically speaking. But that couldn’t be further from the truth. Tucked subtly behind the stone paneling, you’ll find high-end appliances from Miele and Viking that can be remotely operated. Want a cup of coffee after you wake up? Just roll out of bed and send the connected Miele espresso machine your order. It’ll be ready by the time you make it to the kitchen.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Another great example of seamless tech integration is the home’s living room entertainment center. There you’ll find a stunning 77-inch LG OLED TV and a top-of-the-line surround sound system.
But here’s the thing: All those speakers are practically invisible. Three of them are neatly integrated into the ceiling, while two more and a pair of subwoofers are hidden away in the stone wall. You couldn’t find them if you tried.
Image used with permission by copyright holder But even with all this cleverly integrated technology and automation, the star of the show is definitely the home’s residential energy system, which allows the house to power all of its interior tech — including all those appliances, TVs, speakers, and even the Tesla chargers in the garage — without drawing a single watt from the California energy grid.
Image used with permission by copyright holder All the power the house needs comes from an array of solar panels on its roof, which store surplus energy in an interior battery bank to keep it running 24/7.
ElliQ is a smart home companion designed for your grandparents Alexa launches Grow a Tree Skill for Earth Day This high-tech hillside home brings the outdoors inside Oh, and did we mention there’s also an infinity pool, an elevator, a cinema-grade private theater, and a climate controlled wine cellar? You definitely don’t want to miss this episode! Image used with permission by copyright holder Editors' Recommendations Ring helps you find your lost furry friend with the Ring Pet Tag Can a robot vacuum work as an air purifier? Inside a high-tech Hollywood home where everything is hidden This Malibu mansion is a perfect mix of tech and tranquility Inside a modern mansion full of art, automation, and open air Audio / Video Features Genius Home Internet of Things (IoT) Tech for Change The Food Fight Smart Home When you think home security, Alexa and Google Assistant are not the first devices that come to mind (despite the inclusion of a camera in the Nest Hub Max.) After all, no one really wants their smart assistant to be that smart -- the last thing we need is a Terminator situation.
The question is: Why not? A programmable safe word is a perfect addition to the current smart home, especially if it could be used without first triggering the command word (like Alexa or Hey, Google.) You could program in a quick, uncommon word that would contact authorities. For instance, you could use 'pernicious' as a safe word. How many people do you know that use that word in everyday language? How the smart home can improve on the security front Smart home technology has evolved far beyond just standard convenience. Modern devices are capable of tasks well advanced from what early adopters might ever have imagined. For example, there are smart doorbell cameras that can measure a person's body temperature when they ring the doorbell. With features like that in mind, why can't a smart home be more proactive in keeping the occupants safe? Smart Home There’s no denying that smart speakers have become integral gadgets for the home. You may even own one or more of them yourself. I myself count five different smart speakers just in my tiny apartment. However, I never really thought about the environmental impact of smart speakers until I started reviewing the most-recent-generation models. I’m not talking about the materials they’re constructed from, but rather, the packaging they come in -- because there’s more to sustainability than the gadgets we live with day in, day out.
Most people don’t think twice about the packaging -- it’s quickly discarded because the prize is the gadget. I’m guilty of this, too. But when you consider how widely accessible smart speakers are , especially low-cost models like the Google Nest Mini or the Amazon Echo Dot, the gravity of all those packages being discarded really becomes apparent when you think about how many of them are sold yearly.
Smart Home Have you ever tried to measure a child? In particular, a wriggling, active, uncooperative infant? It's a bit like herding cats -- all but impossible. Thanks to new smart technology from Nanit, you can let your baby's sheets do the work for you. Nanit's no stranger in this space having released a baby monitor previously.
The new Nanit Pro, combined with the matching Smart Sheets, keeps track of your baby's height as they grow over time. You can take this information and present it to your pediatrician to help ensure your child is growing properly and meeting all of their health thresholds.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
