Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Smart Home Features This Malibu mansion is a perfect mix of tech and tranquility By Keyan Riddick Close In episode 4 of Genius Home , our hosts Ariana Escalante and Caleb Denison showcase a modern, calming villa in the hills of Malibu, California. The villa’s cascading grounds seamlessly incorporate the area’s hills and perfectly house the home’s three livable spaces. Of course, the home also has plenty of technology, but you won’t see it in plain view.
Previous Next 1 4 Image used with permission by copyright holder Image used with permission by copyright holder Image used with permission by copyright holder Image used with permission by copyright holder Light is a big theme in this house. Whether it’s natural light streaming in through the windows, or artificial light beaming down from bulbs, all of the home’s illumination is controlled via a powerful Lutron lighting system. Residents can manage everything through a wall-mounted iPad, a smartphone app, or even via voice commands. But most of the time, the lights and shades can just run themselves. They’re programmed to come on automatically when the sun sets and stops beaming light in through the home’s luxurious floor-to-ceiling window panels.
Previous Next 1 2 Image used with permission by copyright holder Image used with permission by copyright holder After sundown, you can head down to the home’s decked-out entertainment room. But you’ll need to keep your eyes peeled. If you don’t look closely, you might not notice that the big painting on the wall is actually a Samsung QLED smart TV.
 The display is paired to stereo speakers that are hiding in the ceiling. In fact, all of the rooms here have hidden speakers — all of which can be controlled via the home’s central entertainment system, naturally.
Image used with permission by copyright holder If you can pull yourself away from that entrancing entertainment room, the house also offers a broad range of outdoor activities. Wander out into the property’s backyard and you’ll find a full-sized tennis court, a spacious lawn, and stunning views of the Pacific Ocean. Who needs a TV when you have such a killer vista to stare at? And that’s not all either. Continue down down the backyard hills and you’ll find even more living space in the form of a fully renovated 1950s Airstream. It has access to the main homes’ entertainment, sounds, and security systems. You’ll find a bedroom, kitchen, and sitting area all inside — and it isn’t the least bit cramped.
Previous Next 1 3 Image used with permission by copyright holder Image used with permission by copyright holder Image used with permission by copyright holder But don’t stop there. Stay on the path that leads away from the Airstream and you’ll eventually find yet another extension of the house: A full-blown wellness studio. The wood-paneled studio keeps the environment warm and inviting, while a smart glass window system allows you to turn panels from transparent to completely opaque at the touch of a button. As a result, this studio keeps privacy and focus at the center while remaining connected.
Image used with permission by copyright holder All things considered, this 50,000-square-foot midcentury villa is an exercise in balance. It’s absolutely stuffed with smart home tech, yet still provides a calm and relaxed atmosphere. its owners show that you can have a tech-filled home and still be able to unplug from your hectic lifestyle.
Editors' Recommendations iRobot Roomba Combo j9+ robot vacuum and mop is perfect for high-pile carpet Is your smart home child-safe? Wyze Lock Bolt brings high-tech features, low-tech price tag Is assemble-it-yourself smart tech the way of the future? This high-tech hillside home brings the outdoors inside Audio / Video Features Genius Home Internet of Things (IoT) Smart Home The Super Bowl is only one week away. Regardless of what team you're rooting for in Super Bowl LVI, the right smart home accessories will make the big game that much more exciting to watch -- especially if you're hosting a party.
If you have friends coming over, we've got a few gadgets here that should make the whole day easy to manage. You can also use them to impress your friends --or distract them when your team loses. Here are the best items to throw the ultimate Super Bowl party, from lights and audio to food.
From the outside in Smart Home In episode 3 of Genius Home, our hosts Ariana Escalante and Caleb Denison visit a beautiful, art-packed party pad in the hills of California's San Fernando Valley. Packed with a bevy of Samsung technology -- including an exceptionally smart fridge and something called an "air dresser," this home pairs outdoor entertainment with intelligent appliances. But first, let's go over some of the highlights.
As with the previous homes featured in this series, this contemporary house is absolutely breathtaking. It has near-invisible floor-to-ceiling glass walls that seamlessly blend the indoors and outdoors, giving the space a very airy and open feel. Rather than standing out, the house is generally designed to get out of the way of its inhabitants, and keep everyday tasks from getting in the way. To achieve that, the house's myriad Samsung smart appliances are designed to learn the owner's preferences and take care of little tasks autonomously.
Smart Home Through the years, the Consumer Electronics Show (CES) has brought us a number of mind-bending tech innovations that have enhanced the way we experience and interact with all facets of life. In fact, most aspects of average residential living have received some kind of love from the ingenious developers showcasing life-changing possibilities at the renowned expo. Even the lives of our pets have received some incredible advancements.
At CES 2022, pet tech was front and center from a handful of renowned vendors, and we're excited about what's coming for the world of our four-legged friends. From our eager hearts and minds to yours, here's a guide to some of the most jaw-dropping breakthroughs in pet technology that we spotted this year.
Smart collars Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
