Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Smart Home Features Inside a high-tech Hollywood home where everything is hidden By Digital Trends Staff Close In the latest episode of Genius Home , our intrepid hosts Caleb Denison and Ariana Escalante take us on a tour of a high-class hideaway in the Hollywood hills that goes to great lengths to conceal all of the home’s component technologies. We’ve seen plenty of hidden home tech in earlier episodes of this series, but this latest house somehow manages to kick things up a notch. Check it out! Previous Next 1 3 Image used with permission by copyright holder Image used with permission by copyright holder Image used with permission by copyright holder The first example of hidden technology in this home — and arguably one of the most impressive — is the ingeniously engineered driveway. Most driveways force the owner to pull in forward, then back out when it’s time to leave again. Some fancier ones are loop shaped, allowing the owner to simply drive in a circle in order to exit. But this one is totally different. It’s equipped with a gigantic (and practically invisible) turntable that allows the home’s owner to pull the car in and park facing forward, then press a button to spin the car 180 degrees so that it’s facing outward and ready to depart. How cool is that?! Image used with permission by copyright holder The fun doesn’t stop at the driveway. Step into the opulent entryway, waltz through the huge open-air sitting room, and you’ll find one of the most low-key high-tech kitchens we’ve ever set foot in. First of all, its’ outfitted with not one, but three islands — each of which houses a suite of commercial-grade appliances that are clad in marble and hidden from view. You’ll also notice that there doesn’t appear to be a refrigerator in the room. Looks can be deceiving, though. Pull out one of the wooden drawers on the wall and you’ll discover that the fridge is there after all — it’s just not the usual cabinet shape that most of us are used to.
Previous Next 1 2 Image used with permission by copyright holder Image used with permission by copyright holder Beyond the kitchen, the “hidden from view” theme continues in magical fashion. Outside the main sitting area, there’s a wall that, to the untrained eye, seems completely insignificant and uninteresting. Nothing could be further from the truth, though, as a touch on a nearby biometric pad will cause the wall to swing open, revealing a hidden theater room. It really doesn’t get much cooler than this! Image used with permission by copyright holder Perhaps the greatest example of hiding, however, is the house itself. Despite being nestled in a fairly populous part of California, the home still manages to feel private, secluded, and isolated from the rest of the world. As Escalante points out during the tour, the house is filled with giant, floor-to-ceiling windows that would typically make you feel exposed — yet somehow the space still feels very private.
It’s one thing to hide an oven, or even a movie theater — but hiding an entire house? That’s truly next level.
Previous Next 1 3 Image used with permission by copyright holder Image used with permission by copyright holder Image used with permission by copyright holder Editors' Recommendations Apple finally activates HomePod Mini’s hidden temperature/humidity sensor Wyze Lock Bolt brings high-tech features, low-tech price tag This Malibu mansion is a perfect mix of tech and tranquility Inside a modern mansion full of art, automation, and open air Step inside a stylish, self-sustaining California villa Features Genius Home Smart Home LG has almost always had a presence in the smart home space, but the company made that clearer than ever before at CES 2022 with a flurry of new smart home devices aimed at improving people's lives. From improving our air quality and turning us into the perfect cooks to adding more settings to washers and dryers, the LG ThinQ app plays a larger role than ever before.
PuriCare AeroTower The company aims to not only improve your air quality, but also your comfort with the LG PuriCare AeroTower. Not your ordinary air purifier, the PuriCare AeroTower is also a fan and a heater. The model supports three airflow modes (with 10 levels of intensity each): Wide, Diffusion, and Ddirect. Depending on the model, you can add heat (up to 86 degrees Fahrenheit) to any airflow mode. The unit uses multistage True HEPA filters to effectively capture most particles floating around a room. It also uses ultraviolet-C light to help combat bacteria. For those who want to check on the air quality, they can look on the device or check out the LG ThinQ app on their phone.
InstaView Double Oven Range Smart Home The end of the calendar year is often when we reflect on all the big announcements, new product launches, and huge advancements in the home technology sphere. While there have been a few notable concepts, gadgets, and ideas that will make 2021 memorable, the year might be notable more for all the stuff we didn’t get.
Cool smart home technology When it comes to progress in 2021, there were a handful of notable advancements. One of the most tangible and useful is artificial intelligence (A.I.) in the home, and we saw it in products like iRobot’s new Roomba j7+ vacuum robot.
iRobot's j7 with its camera John Velasco / Digital Trends Artificial intelligence for the home iRobot rolled out a host of object recognition features that make its robot vacuum more useful since now it won’t get caught on things as much. A new camera built into Roomba j7 can ‘see’ and avoid specific objects like cords, cables, and socks, and even pet poop, so there’s no more coming home to unpleasant surprises or half-finished cleanings. iRobot (and to be honest, other robot vacuum and mop manufacturers are also doing this too) has been training its bots to be smarter and more adaptable to us humans in the home, since we can be forgetful and careless when it comes to leaving hazards in the way of a fresh floor sweep.
Biometrics everywhere If it wasn’t A.I. infiltrating our smart homes, it was biometrics. We saw smart fingerprint-enabled padlocks and bike locks become more common, like those from BenjiLock. The beauty of using a fingerprint is that you never need to worry about remembering keys. Unlike PINs or combinations, you can’t forget your fingerprint. Biometric access is also used on many smart door locks including those made by Ultraloq and Eufy and the convenience can’t be understated. We covered the best of them all in our best smart lock roundup.
Smart Home Ho-ho-hold on to your old smart home tech. Don't throw it away -- it can make a great Christmas gift.
Whether you managed to find a great deal on some new smart speakers or you were gifted an upgrade on your smart light bulbs, it's very possible you'll find yourself with a few too many gadgets kicking around the house. Sure, you can stash the old ones away for a rainy day, but after gathering dust for so long, you'll likely need clear out them out eventually. Kicking these devices to the curb is an utter waste when they're still perfectly serviceable. Let's see if we can find a better home for your old smart home tech.
Prep First things first, no matter where these gadgets are going, you'll want to make sure you've performed a factory reset on them. You don't want to have lingering user data on them when you hand them off. You'll also want to make sure you have all the appropriate power supplies and wiring needed to have the device up and running. Original packaging and documentation are nice, but not entirely necessary. So long as you've got a box with some protective padding inside, your smart home gadget should be ready to hand off.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
