Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Phones Best Tablets Tesla Phone Download Android 14 Best Android Phones Home Mobile Features This one Google Pixel 8 Pro feature is driving me crazy By Prakhar Khanna Close Joe Maring / Digital Trends The Google Pixel 8 Pro is a fine phone at $999. It’s got a great display, a good design, a bunch of AI features, and thr promise of updates over a long period of time.
It’s all about the experience The new AI features are a gimmick I’ve been using the phone since launch and am getting accustomed to the new Google Photos features like Best Take and the improved Magic Eraser. I like the fact that I can get a great group photo without worrying if someone’s eyes are closed or isn’t ready for the photo. But the experience of using these features isn’t what I was expecting.
It’s all about the experience Prakhar Khanna / Digital Trends Google integrated a bunch of AI features into the Google Photos app for editing your shots. I like having the ability to make my photos better with a few taps, but using those features is frustrating. While Pixels haven’t been the fastest phones ever, I expect my phone to be reliable. However, using Best Take or Magic Eraser on the Pixel 8 Pro is a disappointing and unreliable experience.
When interacting with these AI features, you need to go to the Google Photos app, select Edit , and go to Tools.
 After that, you wait for the phone to scan the image and suggest the edits accordingly. For instance, Best Take appears after a loading time of 1 to 3 seconds. I’m fine with the Pixel 8 Pro taking time to load the suggestions on edits, but I’m not OK with it processing a change for up to 7 seconds.
On a group photo, I select Tools and wait for Best Take to appear. After that, it takes another couple of seconds to load the suggestions for faces, which is perfectly fine because no other phone lets me do that. Once that’s done, I select a face and the edit I like, which is fairly instantaneous. But then the phone takes another 3 to 5 seconds to process it and show the result. I select Save a copy and wait for a couple of seconds to have the changes appear in my final photo. This process can take anywhere from 10 to 12 seconds.
Prakhar Khanna / Digital Trends Best Take might be a first-gen thing, but Magic Eraser isn’t, and it still takes up to 5 seconds to load the suggestions. In the meantime, you can’t interact with the photo to circle the objects you want to remove because it gives you the option to do that only after loading its own suggestions. And it sometimes fails at it.
I’ve had instances where Best Take didn’t show up till the next day for a photo I edited. You can wait for a few seconds and just sit there disappointed because the phone won’t load the icon for you to select to use the feature. It’s not an ideal experience to interact with Google’s new AI features in Photos for the Pixel 8 Pro. There’s a lot of friction between the user and the phone. And it’s unreliable.
Then there are suggestions at the bottom for you to tap on and edit your photo easily. I’m glad my phone thinks blurring the background would make my photo look better, but I’m not OK waiting 7 seconds after selecting “Blur background” to be presented with the scroller to change the amount of blur.
The new AI features are a gimmick Prakhar Khanna / Digital Trends The Pixel 8 Pro is giving me Photoshop-level editing abilities at my fingertips with Best Take, Magic Eraser, and other suggestions, which I appreciate. But using these features takes me back to early 2010s loading times. Remember when a webpage used to take up to 10 seconds to load? This feels like that. If Google wants people to actually use its new AI advancements, it needs to make the process quicker.
For now, the new AI features feel gimmicky. You are likely to use them for a few days initially, but forget about them later.
You shouldn’t buy a Google Pixel 8 series phone just for the ability to edit photos quickly; the process isn’t quick at all and it’s frustrating at best. I feel like I’m better off not using these features for leisure and only when I’m in need. These are good to have, but not something that you can’t live without. The Pixel 8 Pro has plenty of other reasons to warrant a purchase, but the new AI features aren’t one of them.
Editors' Recommendations Google is finally fixing an annoying issue with its Pixel phones I’ve had the Google Pixel 8 Pro for a month. Here’s why I’m keeping it Google’s Pixel phones are in trouble I tested the Pixel 8 Pro and iPhone 15 Pro. This one has the best camera There might be something wrong with the Google Pixel Watch 2 Android Features Google Google Pixel Mobile Apple iPhone 15 Pro Max (left) and Apple iPhone 15 Plus Andy Boxall / Digital Trends An iPhone 15 with a big screen is calling your name, and this year you really do have a choice of two. The iPhone 15 Pro Max has grabbed headlines with its titanium body and improved camera, but the iPhone 15 Plus has the same size screen and is $200 cheaper; plus, it’s a great phone overall.
Mobile Android 14 introduced a host of convenient additions to Google’s Pixel phones, but a recent minor update has utterly broken the storage system for some users. Specifically, owners of the Google Pixel 6, Google Pixel 6 Pro, and Google Pixel 6a who run multiple profiles on their phones are reporting that their phones no longer have access to the storage pipeline for the main profile.
That means users are locked out of accessing the stored media and find themselves unable to add new files as well. A few users have reported on Reddit and Google’s official community forum that they can’t even click images using the camera app because it flashes an insufficient storage warning message. A few others say trying to install an APK package also returns a similar storage writing roadblock.
Mobile Not long ago, it seemed that the Google Pixel 7a would be the last smartphone in Google's Pixel A series. However, recent rumors indicate that this may not be the case anymore.
As a result, we're likely to see the release of a Google Pixel 8a in the coming year. What can we expect from this new budget phone in terms of its specs, design, price, and more? Let's take a closer look at everything we know (so far) about the Google Pixel 8a.
Google Pixel 8a: release date Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
