Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending in Computing: Best Dell Laptops ChatGPT Best Monitors Asus ROG Azoth Review How to delete a page in Word in 3 easy steps RTX 4080 vs RTX 4070 Ti Best Mac Apps AMD vs Intel Recall an Email in Outlook Home Computing Deals Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Google’s Nest Wi-Fi Pro Mesh Router is $100 off in the Prime Day sales By Andrew Morrisey Close Google Prime Day deals are officially live. Sales events like these are great for buying those useful tech products that are just a little out of your price range. Google Nest Wi-Fi Pro Mesh Routers, for instance, are great for extending the range of your Wi-Fi into all the nooks and crannies of your house, but they’re expensive as for as routers go. But today, as part of the best Prime Day best Prime Day smart home deals , you can get them for just $300 after a $100 discount for a three-pack normally priced at $400.
Why you should buy the Google Nest Wi-Fi Pro Mesh Router 3-pack Google’s Nest is a brand that makes super cool and super stylish tech for your smart home. The Nest Wi-Fi Pro is not just a high-quality router; we feel it’s one of the best Wi-Fi routers available on the market. It’s capable of providing Wi-Fi coverage for up to 2,200 square feet, and with this three-pack, you’ll be able to expand your Wi-Fi network to cover up to 6,600 square feet of fast, reliable internet connectivity. This will allow you to get Wi-Fi access and keep a strong signal even in the farthest reaches of your home or office, as all of the best long-range Wi-Fi routers should be capable of.
The Google Nest Wi-Fi Pro Mesh Router works with devices such as laptops , phones, and tablets, and it uses the latest, most advanced Wi-Fi 6E technology. This is a router that has a lot of smarts as well. It monitors itself to diagnose any network issues that may be occurring and can even fix some common issues on its own. It’s capable of adjusting performance and activity to suit your use, with the ability to prioritize things like video calls, which makes this a router that would go well with any of the best laptops or the best laptops for videoconferencing you can find among the best Prime Day laptop deals.
 You an also utilize the Google Home app to share your router’s Wi-Fi password with guests and to prioritize devices using your network.
Save on everything from laptops and tablets, to coffee makers and air purifiers, and a whole host of Apple tech like iPad, Apple Watch and even the latest M3 MacBooks, as well as smart home essentials like the Amazon Echo and smart bulbs.
While it would regularly cost $390, this Google Nest Wi-Fi Pro Mesh Router three-pack is just $300 for Prime Day. That’s a savings of $100 and its lowest price of the year. Free shipping is included with a purchase.
Editors' Recommendations Best router Black Friday deals on mesh networks and Wi-Fi 6 routers One of our favorite mesh Wi-Fi systems is 30% off right now Prime Day is over, but these laptop deals are still available Get a curved 34-inch QHD gaming monitor for $307 for Prime Day These Acer Nitro 5 gaming laptops are discounted for Prime Day Deals Amazon Amazon Prime Day Google Nest Computing An upgraded desktop computer or gaming PC should be followed by an investment in a new 4K monitor so that you'll be able to maximize the abilities of your new machine. Fortunately, with Amazon's Prime Big Deal Days 2023 bringing back Prime Day deals, Best Buy has rolled out bargains for 4K monitors made by Samsung, Asus, Sony, and more. You'll have to choose what you're buying as soon as possible though, as there's no telling when stocks of these displays will run out.
What to buy in Best Buy's 4K monitor deals The cheapest 4K monitor from Best Buy is the 28-inch Samsung ViewFinity UR55, which is available for Computing With Amazon bringing back its Prime Day deals for Prime Big Deal Days 2023, other retailers have also rolled out their own offers to try to keep up with the competition. That's a win for shoppers, who will be able to take advantage of bargains like the Dell Inspiron 27 All-in-One for just $700, following a $200 discount on its original price of $900. We're not sure how long the all-in-one computer's price will stay this like this though, so if you're interested, you're going to want to complete the purchase right away.
Why you should buy the Dell Inspiron 27 All-in-One PC An all-in-one computer has its display built directly into the unit so you won't have to buy a monitor, as described by our guide on how to choose a computer. This is one of the benefits of the Dell Inspiron 27 All-in-One, which comes with a 27-inch screen that offers Full HD resolution. The device comes with the Dell Pro wireless keyboard and mouse, and whether you use these or your own wireless accessories, the only cable that you'll need to deal with is the Dell Inspiron 27 All-in-One's power cable, so your desk will be free from snaking wires.
Computing You know it, we know it, everyone knows it. Prime Day deals offer some of the best opportunities to get computers, consoles, laptops, and a host of other devices on the cheap. Not just at Amazon either, as competing retailers drop their prices, too, like Best Buy with its Prime Counter sale on laptops. But if you want something with a little more power and better performance for playing some of the latest games, well, there's no competition with Amazon's current sale. You'll find a huge selection of Nvidia RTX gaming laptops on sale across several manufacturers like MSI, ASUS, Acer, Lenovo, and beyond.
Take the Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
