Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Audio / Video Deals Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Chromecast deals: The cheapest option for Google’s streaming device By Lucas Coll Close If you don’t have a smart TV but want to easily stream content, or you love the Google operating system and want to use it instead of the built-in Fire or Tizen system, you need to grab a Chromecast. It’s the Google streaming device that turns any TV into a smart TV. Google ended support for the first generation Google Chromecast recently, but the newer models still work as designed. If you’ve been loving the Chromecast since it first came out in 2013, there’s no reason to switch over to a Fire TV Stick or an Apple TV 4K. There is a Chromecast deal on a newer model going on right now. The only deal currently available on a new Chromecast is $12 off the 3rd Gen version. Read about it below.
Google Chromecast 3rd gen — $38, was $50 Image used with permission by copyright holder The 3rd Gen Google Chromecast is the perfect streaming device for Google fans. The Chromecast connects to your TV via an HDMI port and makes any TV a smart TV. You can stream content from your phone or your laptop, and you use that device as a remote to control what happens on your TV. Unfortunately it can only stream up to 1080p, so if you’re itching for 4K content, you’ll have to stream it from a different device. The Chromecast fits perfectly into a smarthome system designed around Google, so if you have a Pixel phone or Nest smart devices in your house, this is your best option. If you’re an iPhone or MacBook person, we’d suggest the Apple TV 4K.
Editors' Recommendations Peacock TV free trial: Can you stream for free Walmart just slashed the price of this Google Chromecast to $20 Best Apple TV deals: Get the streaming device from just $34 Walmart TV deals: 55-inch 4K TV for under $250 and more Best Sonos deals: Save $200 on speakers, soundbars and more Deals Cheapest Prices Cord Cutting 101 Google Chrome Google Nest Streaming Services Audio / Video It may seem like 4K resolution just arrived, but 8K is already around the corner. You may not necessarily need such high resolution, but if you’re in the market for a new TV, buying an 8K TV now can future-proof your home theater, and 8K TVs are more affordable than most people realize. Putting one of the best 8K TVs at the center of your home theater will create about as immersive of an experience as you can get, as 8K resolution is the equivalent of putting four 4K TVs together. There are several 8K TVs in the same price range as 4K TVs, and there are quite a few 8K TV deals taking place right now. We’ve rounded them up, so read onward for more details.
Samsung QN700B 55-inch QLED 8K Smart TV — $1,000, was $1,600 You can’t go wrong with a Samsung TV at any resolution, as Samsung is almost always one of the best TV brands. With this 55-inch QLED TV you’re getting a size that can fit well into most rooms and picture quality that’s hard to beat. It utilizes a Neural Quantum Processor Lite 8K to deliver Samsung’s most impressive picture yet, and while it’s often seen as a tossup between QLED and OLED for the best picture technology, QLED fits nicely with this 8K TV. It offers 33 million pixels and AI-based processing that upscales and analyzes everything you watch to upscale it with impressive clarity into 8K. This means that while most modern content is made in Full HD or 4K, with this TV you’ll be able to watch it and everything before it in 8K.
Audio / Video Prime Day deals aren't solely about physical items -- they can also lead to great discounts on streaming services and more. For instance, one of the best Prime Day streaming deals today is being able to sign up to Britbox for just $1 per month for two months. It usually costs $8 per month so this is a super sweet early Prime Day deal for anyone that loves to watch their favorite British shows for less. Keen to know more? Let's take a look.
Why you should sign up for Britbox If you're already signed up to Amazon Prime, you know all the benefits including being able to use Amazon Prime Video. The best shows on Amazon Prime are pretty attractive but they're typically fairly American-focused as you'd expect. Signing up to Britbox opens you up to a world of British shows.
Audio / Video If you're a student, you're going to love the deal going on at Hulu right now. Sign up today and you can pay just $2 per month for the service instead of the usual $8 per month. For anyone who loves movies and TV shows, this is a deal not to be missed out on. All you need to do is be enrolled at a U.S. Title IV accredited college or university and be able to pass verification to confirm that. Here's why you'll want to sign up for Hulu.
Why you want to sign up for Hulu Hulu is one of the most popular streaming services around for good reason. It has a ton of great content. Right now, for instance, it has the latest season of The Kardashians along with Power Book II: Ghost, Succession, and Yellowjackets. For lighter times, there's always Family Guy too. That's a pretty great start, right? It gets better.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
