Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Smart Home Deals Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Best security camera deals: Ring, Arlo, Blink and more on sale These are the best security camera deals available right now By Andrew Morrisey Close Security cameras are as affordable as ever, and whether you’re looking for one of the best home security cameras or one of the best wireless security cameras , they’re pieces of tech you can often find a discount on. This is certainly the case right now, as significant discounts are taking place on a variety of security camera models by Arlo, Ring and Blink, among others. We’ve done the heavy lifting of tracking down the best security camera deals you can find right now, so read onward if you’re in the market for an affordable way to keep an eye on your home and surroundings.
Arlo Essential Spotlight Camera — $70, was $130 Ring Stick Up — $70 , was $100 Blink 2 Outdoor — $90, was $180 Swann Enforcer 8-channel Surveillance System — $340, was $400 Night Owl 10-channel Surveillance System — $350, was $500 Arlo Essential Spotlight Camera — $70, was $130 Arlo The Arlo Essential Spotlight Camera is one of the better wireless cameras out there. Arlo is a brand that’s become a staple in home security cameras. The Essential Spotlight Camera is easy to install and take down for charging, and it offers the conveniences you’ll find in most wireless cameras. These include easy wireless connectivity to your home’s wifi network, which often needs to be done with a hub. This camera has connectivity built right in without the need for additional peripheral equipment. It has a motion sensor and an infrared mode for seeing at night. It has a two-way audio, which can be a good way to ward off intruders or talk with people making deliveries.
Ring Stick Up — $70 , was $100 Ring The Ring Stick Up is a good security camera for indoors or outdoors. It can go almost anywhere, and allows you to hear and speak to people on camera from your phone or tablet. You can customize the motion sensors to focus on specific areas of your home, and it has a Live View that allows you to watch over your home in 1080p Full HD resolution at any time. It even works with Alexa , allowing you to hear audio announcements when motion is detected. The Ring Stick Up sets up in minutes and it charges easily with a removable battery pack. This is a great option if you’re looking for something capable but versatile.
Blink 2 Outdoor — $90, was $180 John Velasco / Digital Trends The Blink 2 Outdoor security camera system is a step toward a more complete surveillance system. Two cameras are included here, with the Blink 2 Outdoor offering improvements over previous models. It offers long lasting battery life, with the ability to run up to two years on just two AA lithium batteries, which are included. You can set this system up to alert you on your phone when the motion detectors are triggered, and it also gives you the ability to customize motion detection zones within the Blink Home Monitor app. This package also includes one Sync Module 2, which allows you to connect up to 10 Blink cameras and save videos and photos from each.
Swann Enforcer 8-channel Surveillance System — $340, was $400 Image used with permission by copyright holder With the Swann Enforcer 8-channel Surveillance System you’re getting four cameras and a 2TB DVR recording system. The system is able to record in 4K Ultra HD , with each camera offering a 90-degree field of view. This setup is a little more complex than most people will need around the house, but it can be easily worth the investment if you feel you can put it to good use. It has a Defend & Deter mode that flashes lights, spotlights and sirens upon detecting an intruder, and it even has Color Night Vision mode that can see up to 32 feet with the lights on. The system itself can see in black and white as far as 130 feet in the dark. This setup comes with all of the cables and AC adapters you’ll need to get yourself up and running.
Night Owl 10-channel Surveillance System — $350, was $500 Image used with permission by copyright holder The Night Owl 10-channel Surveillance System is another option to consider if you have good reason to keep an eye on things around your house. It comes with four cameras 1TB of storage space. It’s capable of recording in 4K Ultra HD resolution, and connects wirelessly over your home’s wireless network. You can control the system right from the app on your smart device through a secure Bluetooth wireless connection. It even has some impressive smarts, such as the ability to detect human activity over animal activity, as well as facial capture technology and vehicle alerts. The Night Owl 10-channel Surveillance System supports up to 10 cameras, so you can also use this to get yourself going with a surveillance system and expand as you need to with time.
Editors' Recommendations Best Blink Black Friday deals: Get a security camera for $20 Best Arlo Black Friday deals: Save on security cameras and bundles This is the single best early Black Friday home security camera deal The Arlo Pro 4 security camera bundle is over 50% off today Arlo 3-camera home surveillance system with night vision is $300 off Deals Cheapest Prices Google Nest Smart Home Equipping your home with a security camera will give you peace of mind, especially if you choose to go with the Arlo Essential Spotlight Camera. Amazon slashed its original price of $130 with a 46% discount, so you'll only have to pay $70 -- at this price, most families will be able to afford to buy multiples for extra layers of protection. You're going to have to be quick with your purchase if you want to take advantage of the $60 in savings though, as we're not sure when the offer will expire or how long stocks will last.
Why you should buy the Arlo Essential Spotlight Camera The Arlo Essential Spotlight Camera is a wireless home security camera that's fast and easy to install -- it connects to your Wi-Fi network without the need for a hub, and it's powered by a rechargeable battery so there's no need to link it to a power source. You also have the option to place it anywhere, outdoors or indoors, because it's a weather-resistant device, and it works seamlessly with smart home systems that are powered by Amazon's Alexa, Google Home, Apple Home, and Samsung SmartThings.
Smart Home Amazon's October Prime Day deals may be over, but there are still a lot of discount online if you're thinking about improving your home's security. Here's a bundle from Best Buy that you should consider -- the Ring Video Doorbell and the Ring Stick Up Cam for just $100, for savings of $100 on their supposed total price of $200. It's not always that you can get a pair of high-quality security devices for half-price, so you should take advantage of this offer while it's still online.
Why you should buy the Ring Video Doorbell and Ring Stick Up Cam The second-generation Ring Video Doorbell is highlighted as the best entry-level option in our roundup of the best video doorbells because even if it's affordable, it offers most of the important features such as live HD video and two-way talk through either the Ring app or a smart home device powered by Amazon's Alexa, customizable motion zone settings, and easy installation as it runs on a rechargeable battery. The Ring Video Doorbell also offers infrared night vision, so you'll be able to see what's outside your front door even if it's dark.
Smart Home Maybe it's a surprise, maybe it's not, but Amazon is back with its Prime Day Big Deal Days sale in October. It's happening much closer to the holiday shopping season and offers an excellent opportunity to stock up on last-minute discounts. When it comes to your home security, Amazon's Ring has it all -- video doorbells, security cameras, and alarm kits. They're available with huge discounts in this year's Prime Day deals, too, so if you've been thinking about adding extra layers of protection for your family, you're going to want to take advantage of these offers. Be warned that you're probably not the only one thinking about beefing up your home's security for Prime Day, so it's highly recommended that you order as soon as possible because stocks for Ring products may already be selling out.
What to buy in Amazon's Prime Day Big Deal Days Ring sale The cheapest Ring security devices that you can buy from Amazon's Prime Day Big Deal Days sale include the second-generation Ring Indoor Cam, which is Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
