Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Smart Home Products Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? The best smart plugs of 2023: What is a smart plug, and which do I need? By Michael Bizzaco , Alina Bradford and Simon Sage Close Smart home devices have come a long way over the past few years. Walk into any home improvement store or supermarket, and you’re bound to find a wide variety of smart lights, smart locks, smart thermostats, and an assortment of other “smart” gadgets. But one often overlooked category is smart plugs – tiny devices that plug into your electrical outlet and give your “dumb” electronics the versatility of a modern smart home device.
Beyond giving you remote control of your outlets, many smart plugs allow you to set timers or monitor your electricity usage. This makes them surprisingly versatile while still carrying an affordable price tag. Plenty of big names (like Amazon and Wyze) are producing smart plugs, but they’re far from your only option. Here’s a closer look at the best smart plugs of 2023.
More More More More More Image used with permission by copyright holder Amazon Smart Plug Best smart plug for Alexa Easy setup Supports routines and schedule Energy saving tips No support for HomeKit or Google Assistant Amazon's very own smart plug seamlessly works with Alexa, and its Certified for Humans ranking means setup is as simple as plugging it in and following a few basic directions. Its design is narrow, so it leaves the other outlet free for use. You can set up routines and schedules through the Alexa app, while the Alexa energy dashboard provides recommendations on how to save energy.
More Image used with permission by copyright holder Wemo Smart Plug with Thread Most compact smart plug Monitors and reports on electricity usage Doesn't require a hub to work Includes Thread support Awkward user interface Belkin's latest smart plug is a big improvement from its last version. It's a compact option that can fit nearly anywhere and sports built-in compatibility with Siri. Made with the Apple HomeKit in mind, this plug is a great pick for Apple fans and those who are already using the Apple Home app.
This smart plug also includes support for Thread, part of the smart home Matter standard, which helps establish a more secure connection. That feature is useful for those who may be worried about hacking or who want the most reliable connection.
More Kasa / Kasa TP-Link — Kasa Smart Wi-Fi Plug Mini Best budget smart plug Affordable Supports Alexa and Google Assistant Use the app to create weekly schedules Not compatible with Apple HomeKit At about half the price of some of the other smart plugs on this list, the TP-Link Kasa Smart Wi-Fi Plug is a solid choice if you're on a budget. It's compatible with Amazon Alexa and Google Assistant, or you can just use the app. Use the app to create schedules for powering your devices on and off for up to a full week.
More Image used with permission by copyright holder Wyze Smart Plug Best smart plug ecosystem Supports Alexa and Google Assistant Vacation Mode You can use IFTTT to link up the Wyze Smart Plug to other devices Not compatible with Apple HomeKit The Wyze Smart Plug is just slightly more expensive than the TP-Link WiFi Smart Plug, with a two-pack for just $20. On its own, the plug is just $12. It works with Amazon Alexa and Google Assistant, allows custom scheduling, and offers a Vacation Mode that imitates the presence of people in the home by randomly turning lights on and off. The Wyze Sense feature means you can control appliances based on motion, and you can link up the Wyze Smart Plug to other devices through IFTTT.
More Lutron Lutron Caseta Plug-In Lamp Dimmer Switch Best smart plug for lamps Supports Serena shades, Sonos, Alexa, and Google Assistant Set schedules and create routines Adjusts to seasonal changes Little bulky Lacks Apple HomeKit support The Lutron Caseta Plug-In Lamp Switch is great for keeping your electric bill low and home security high. Controllable with Alexa, Google Assistant, Serena shades, and Sonos, you can dim lights, set schedules, and create lighting routines with voice commands or the Lutron app. The switch is also seasonally savvy, meaning as the days grow shorter or longer, the switch adjusts lamp light based on how much sun a room is getting. The unit itself is a little bulky, so you'll want to make sure it's not going to interfere with power brick items.
More Frequently Asked Questions There are plenty of exciting innovations in the world of home automation, between virtual assistants that can control your smart devices, connected appliances, or smart thermostats. You can also upgrade a regular appliance and add it to your smart home system by using a smart plug.
Smart Plugs take a wired home to a new level. They plug into your outlets and let you run small home appliances through Alexa, another intelligent home device, or the sound of your voice. A smart plug turns a “dumb” device, like a coffee maker, room fan, or table lamp, into a smart device.
Exactly how a smart plug communicates will vary by brand. Wi-Fi is common enough, but you'll also see Bluetooth, Zigbee, and Z-wave used to let smart plugs connect to the internet and your phone. Of course, you'll need to ensure the router or other required hub is within range of the smart plugs that you're connecting. Placement can be a challenge in bigger houses, but it's nothing a Wi-Fi extender can't fix.
Using smart plugs is super simple. First, you plug a smart plug into an outlet. Then you plug something else (like a lamp or appliance) into it. Finally, you connect the plug to your favorite home assistant, such as Amazon Alexa or Google Assistant, or the smart plug's app. From there the smart plug turns the power supply to the item you plugged into it on and off using commands sent from an app or smart home hub and your Wi-Fi network.
There are dozens of uses for smart plugs. Here are just a few to get your imagination turned on to all of the possibilities: Turn on your coffee pot while you're still in bed.
Control your window unit air conditioner or space heater without getting out of your chair.
Turn on lamps while you're away to deter would-be burglars.
Turn off the oven, curling iron, or hair straightener you left on from your desk at work.
Turn on your holiday lights using a voice command.
Smart plugs can potentially save you money. By being able to keep tabs on exactly how much power any given appliance is slurping up, you can identify the products in your home that are the biggest problem areas.
Smart plugs can also help save you power by turning off the power supply to devices that use it up even when they're off. This will ultimately help to cut down on phantom power drain and save you a few bucks on your electrical bill. Over time, smart plugs can pay for themselves, provided you enact sufficient use of their features.
How to Choose a Smart Plug There are several things to consider before getting a smart plug.
Voice assistant compatibility: First, make sure that the plug incorporates the type of command system you are more likely to use. For example, you shouldn't get a plug that uses only its own app for commands if you strictly use Alexa. Not all plugs will be compatible with both Alexa and Google Assistant either, so make sure it supports your voice command preference. Note that voice assistants and other platforms that support multiple smart devices can create "scenes" that Energy monitoring: By plugging an appliance into this type of smart plug, you can learn just how much electricity your appliance uses, which can be particularly useful if you're trying to decide on upgrading to a more energy-efficient model. The plug monitors how much electricity is routed through it to your appliance. Then, it sends a report to the plug's app. Reports vary from app to app, but many let you see peak energy use hours and energy used over time. Quite a few smart plugs also give you the option to automatically turn on and off an appliance on a schedule so you can save electricity. Some good energy monitoring smart plugs include the WeMo Insight Switch, Elgato Eve and D-Link Wi-Fi Smart Plug.
Scheduling ahead of time: Most smart plugs have options to set schedules for turning devices on or off at certain times. It's a common feature, but you should still make sure your plug has it for convenience.
Surge protection: At a desk or entertainment center, a smart power strip with surge protection may be a better choice for you. Check out our list of the best surge protectors for a few great smart power strips that you can use here.
Additional outlets: If you’re short on outlets around the house, a smart plug with the ability to expand the number of ports on your outlet is a helpful choice.
Outdoor vs. indoor use: For outdoor use, some of our favorites include Maxcio, Kasa, and Meross (we have a list of the best outdoor smart plugs here). For indoor use, the ConnectSense Smart Outlet 2 provides the most flexibility in the smart plug world. It is compatible with Amazon Alexa, Apple’s HomeKit and Siri, and Google Assistant. If none of those options suit you, it can work without any smart hub at all.
Dimming: You can use voice commands or your smartphone to get precise with your dimming. It's just a matter of pairing a dimmable lamp with a smart plug that supports dimming, like this Leviton model.
Editors' Recommendations Best smart plug Black Friday deals: Get connected from just $10 The 11 best smart home products that support Matter The best smart locks for 2023 The best smart blinds for 2023 Best Amazon Echo deals: The Show, Pop and Dot are on sale Amazon Apple Best Products Google Google Nest Internet of Things (IoT) Smart Home While HomeKit may lag behind the competition in other smart home categories, Apple's platform supports a surprising number of smart blinds and smart shades. These nifty gadgets let you open and close them using either your HomeKit app or voice commands, while also allowing you to program in daily schedules or operate them remotely.
Smart blinds are a great way to upgrade your smart home – and if you're running HomeKit, there are a ton of products to consider. To help you with your search, here's a look at the best HomeKit smart blinds available today.
Smart Home Upgrading your thermostat to a smart thermostat is a great way to save money on your monthly utility bills, but it’s not a decision to make lightly. Beyond sifting through dozens of products and finding ones that offer all the features you’re interested in, you’ll also need to make sure it’ll work with your existing HVAC system. And if you live in an older home or one without a C-wire, shopping for a smart thermostat can be challenging.
Thankfully, there are a handful of great smart thermostats that don’t require a C-wire. Here’s a closer look at four smart thermostats you should consider.
Smart Home While not as widespread as Google Home or Amazon Alexa, Apple HomeKit remains one of the most popular smart home ecosystems of 2023. The software plays well with iOS devices, and several other gadgets such as smart lights, smart locks, thermostats, and cameras can be controlled using the fancy technology. If you’re looking to build your smart home around Apple’s ecosystem, here are the best HomeKit devices available today.
Locks HomeKit doesn’t have the largest selection of smart locks, but that doesn’t really matter when you have something as well-rounded as the Aqara Smart Lock U100. Not only does it offer full HomeKit support, but you’ll even gain access to Apple home keys -- allowing you to unlock your door with your iPhone or Apple Watch. There’s also the standard keypad for entering a passcode, along with a fingerprint sensor that can store several dozen fingerprints (so your whole family can enter the home without worrying about forgetting their password or smartphone).
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
