Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Smart Home Products Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? The 4 best smart thermostats that don’t require a C-wire By Jon Bitner Close Upgrading your thermostat to a smart thermostat is a great way to save money on your monthly utility bills, but it’s not a decision to make lightly. Beyond sifting through dozens of products and finding ones that offer all the features you’re interested in, you’ll also need to make sure it’ll work with your existing HVAC system. And if you live in an older home or one without a C-wire, shopping for a smart thermostat can be challenging.
Thankfully, there are a handful of great smart thermostats that don’t require a C-wire. Here’s a closer look at four smart thermostats you should consider.
More More Image used with permission by copyright holder Google Nest Thermostat E Easy installation Powerful smartphone app Minimalist design No HomeKit support The Google Nest Thermostat E offers just about everything you’d want from a smart thermostat. It’s sleek, it’s easy to use, and installation is about as simple as it gets. Best of all, a C-wire isn’t required – although it might not be compatible with all setups, so be sure to use Google’s guide before making a purchase.
If everything checks out, you’ll be treated to one of the best smart thermostats on the market. Featuring a frosted screen, the understated thermostat easily blends in with most home décor and looks much more modern than traditional units. It also comes with a unique feature that lets you know you’re running at an eco-friendly temperature by showing a Nest Leaf on the display.
Other notable features include the ability to set schedules, sync with Google Home, and scroll through your Energy History charts to see how you can improve your usage.
Ecobee Ecobee3 Lite Smart Thermostat Modern design Syncs with other Ecobee products Support for Alexa, HomeKit, and Google Home Requires a power adapter This entry comes with a bit of a caveat – while the Ecobee3 Lite doesn’t require a C-wire, you’ll probably need to install a power adapter (which is included with your purchase). It’s not an impossible task for the average homeowner, although it does involve some rewiring. But if you don’t mind spending a few minutes tinkering with your setup, the Ecobee3 Lite is a great option.
Ecobee says you can save up to 23% annually on your heating and cooling costs, making this a smart investment. It also integrates nicely with other Ecobee products, as you can install a variety of sensors to allow your thermostat to turn off when a window is opened or when you leave for the day. Coupled with an intuitive smartphone app and a sleek thermostat design, its easy to see why the Ecobee3 Lite is so popular.
More The 11 best smart home products that support Matter The best smart displays for 2023 Snag a Google Nest Hub smart display while it’s 40% off today Image used with permission by copyright holder Sensibo Sky Designed for standalone air conditioning units Easy installation Versatile smartphone app Doesn't support central air conditioning units Folks without central air conditioning aren’t left out of the smart thermostat fun, as the Sensibo Sky is designed specifically for portable, wall-mounted, or standalone units. It works with most models on the market that are remote controlled, allowing you to quickly turn them into a smart appliance.
The Sensibo Sky is smart enough to turn your AC on and off when you’re arriving or leaving, adjust the “real feel” of your home on the fly by measuring both humidity and temperature, and it even lets you program in a schedule for its performance. It might not be as robust as other smart thermostats, but if you’re working with a standalone unit, it’s hard to find a better device than this.
Lux Products Lux GEO-WH Thermostat Multiple power options Simple installation On-unit and smartphone controls Clunky design It may not be the sleekest smart thermostat on the block, but it’s arguably the easiest to install. The Lux GEO-WH can be powered by a C-wire if your home is equipped with one, but you can also run it with a micro-USB cable or AA batteries. Beyond its old-school design, the Lux GEO-WH offers everything that makes smart thermostats great. This includes a programmable schedule, remote access through a smartphone app, and enough flexibility to help you lower your energy bills. It’s also relatively affordable, making it a great option for older homes that may not be equipped with a C-wire.
More Editors' Recommendations Nest Black Friday deals: Nest Hub, Nest Cameras, Nest Thermostats Nest Thermostat Black Friday deals: Save on all three models There’s a huge Google Nest camera, doorbell, and thermostat sale happening now Prime Day sale brings a discount on the Nest Learning Thermostat Google’s latest Nest Hub smart display is almost 50% off at Walmart Best Products Google Nest Smart Home It's a unique time of year. Depending on where you live, you could still be suffering from the last stings of a hot summer or making a peaceful transition to fall. In either case, temperature and energy bills can be hotly debated around this time. Do you let the house get a bit cooler or is it time to start cranking up the heat? Ultimately, we can't answer this question for you, but we can recommend a cool smart thermostat while it is on sale. It's the Google Nest Thermostat and it is just $87 while this deal is ongoing, which is $43 down from its usual $130. Tap the button below for one of the most seasonally appropriate Google Home deals you're gonna find.
Why you should buy the Google Nest Thermostat The first thing you need to know about the Google Nest Thermostat is what it is and what it is not. It is not just a thermostat, a central "brain" for your home's heating and cooling systems. The Google Nest Thermostat is designed to truly help you save energy and money, not just set a temperature, while also being more convenient at setting temps, too. For example, when you leave, it shuts down your system automatically. On the other hand, it analyzes your usage and suggests changes to wrangle your energy bills into something more manageable. The Google Nest Thermostat's HVAC monitoring can be a life saver if those systems go down as well.
Smart Home If you haven't equipped your home with a smart thermostat, this deal from Best Buy may push you to finally get one installed -- the third-generation Google Nest Learning Thermostat for just $200, following a $50 discount on its original price of $250. This bargain only has a few hours left before it expires though, so if you're interested in this money-saving smart home device, you're going to have to push through with the transaction as soon as possible. Once the offer is gone, we're not sure when you'll get another chance.
Why you should buy the Google Nest Learning Thermostat The third-generation Google Nest Learning Thermostat maintains its place in our roundup of the best smart thermostats despite the fact that it was released in 2015 because of its impressive learning capabilities. Once it's installed -- which most people will be able to do themselves in less than an hour, especially with the help of our guide on how to install a smart thermostat -- you just have to set the temperature that you like manually or through the Nest app, and it will do the rest. The smart thermostat takes note of your movement around your house, as well as how cool or hot you like your rooms, and offers suggestions that aim to help save on electricity costs.
Smart Home Smart home devices have come a long way over the past few years. Walk into any home improvement store or supermarket, and you’re bound to find a wide variety of smart lights, smart locks, smart thermostats, and an assortment of other “smart” gadgets. But one often overlooked category is smart plugs – tiny devices that plug into your electrical outlet and give your “dumb” electronics the versatility of a modern smart home device.
Beyond giving you remote control of your outlets, many smart plugs allow you to set timers or monitor your electricity usage. This makes them surprisingly versatile while still carrying an affordable price tag. Plenty of big names (like Amazon and Wyze) are producing smart plugs, but they’re far from your only option. Here’s a closer look at the best smart plugs of 2023.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
