Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Smart Home Deals Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Snag a Google Nest Hub smart display while it’s 40% off today By Albert Bassili Close Google Having your home set up to be smart can be very convenient, whether it’s regulating the light when you’re coming and going from home to talking between family members and sending reminders. There’s a ton you can do with a smart home, but if you want to control it all without carrying your phone around, grabbing a smart home device to act as a hub is a good idea. To that end, if you’re already in the Google ecosystem, this deal on the Google Nest Hub will let you nab a great hub device for relatively cheap. While it usually goes for $100, you can grab it from Best Buy for just $60, a great $40 discount you can put towards something else.
Why you should buy the Google Nest Hub The Google Nest Hub is a mix between a smart screen and a smart speaker, and while it can do both, it can’t do them particularly well, which, surprisingly, isn’t a dealbreaker. In terms of the screen, you get a 7-inch display running a 1024 x 600 resolution, which, truthfully, is not great for watching shows or films. That said, if you’re using it next to your nightstand for time, weather, and other general controls, that’s fine, and it’s similarly great if you want to stick it in the kitchen to have something to look at from time to time as you cook. Sadly, there’s no webcam for you to have video calls on, but it also means you don’t have to worry about privacy, so the Nest Hub can go into any room without issue.
As for the speaker, part of it is also not that great, with it not being much louder than an Echo Dot , if at all, which is a bit disappointing for such a large device. Even so, if you’re not using it as a main device for watching stuff or listening to music, that’s not a dealbreaker, especially at this price point. That’s especially the case since it works with lots of integrations, such as Google Assistant , Nest, Hue, and SmartThings, and it lets you access all the main apps you’d expect with a smart TV, so it’s versatile and a great option as a smart home hub.
All in all, the Nest Hub is a great little device, and while it does falter a little bit regarding the video and audio, it’s pretty great overall. Much of that has to do with the deal from Best Buy bringing it down to $60, and if you’d like something a little bit better, check out our page on smart home deals for alternatives.
Editors' Recommendations Best smart plug Black Friday deals: Get connected from just $10 The best early Keurig Black Friday deals — from $35 Nest Thermostat Black Friday deals: Save on all three models Shark Black Friday sale: Save on vacuums, air purifiers, and more Herman Miller Black Friday sale knocks 25% off top office chairs Deals Google Nest Smart Home One of the best Dyson Corrale deals comes courtesy of Walmart's early Black Friday sale with the Dyson Corrale Straightener down to $190 reduced from $450 so you save $260. Huge discount, right? There's a small catch -- this is a refurbished model but you still get a 12 month Dyson official warranty so there's not much different to buying new. Sure to be a big hit this holiday season, here's why you need to buy it.
Why you should buy the Dyson Corrale Straightener The Dyson Corrale Straightener is a premium hair straightener that typically means you need fewer passes to get your hair straight. Unlike regular straighteners that use solid plates, this one uses flexing plates so it can shape and gather hair, providing you with enhanced styling options with less heat so it's kinder for your hair. Dyson promises half the damage, reduced frizz, and fewer flyaways when you use the straighteners.
Smart Home If you don't mind buying refurbished stock, Walmart has one of the best Black Friday deals for haircare fans. Right now, you can buy the Dyson Supersonic Hair Dryer for $230 saving you a huge $200 off the regular price. As we mentioned, this is a refurbished model but you still get everything you need and it still has a 12 month warranty with Dyson. It's easily one of the hair dryer deals you should consider right now, especially if you're buying gifts. Hit the buy button now before you miss out on the sweet deal or take a look at what we have to tell you about it first.
Why you should buy the Dyson Supersonic Hair Dryer The ultimate hair dryer in many people's eyes, the Dyson Supersonic Hair Dryer is something special. Designed to be fast yet controlled, it measures the air temperature 40 times every second so that you don't have to worry about heat damage and can still protect your hair's natural shine.
Smart Home Black Friday is a great time to save on tech as the holidays approach. Early Black Friday deals have already started to commence at several retailers, with all sorts of smart home devices seeing discounts. Blood pressure monitors are among them, and several make great competition for the best blood pressure monitors. Having a blood pressure monitor around the house can be beneficial, and right now it can help you land some savings. In fact, these early Black Friday deals are offering some of the best blood pressure monitor deals of the year, and we’ve tracked them all down.
Best blood pressure monitor Black Friday deal Omron 5 Series upper arm blood pressure monitor — $55, was $78 While the best fitness trackers can go a long way in helping you track your stats, they can only go so far. Maintaining good health includes maintaining the right blood pressure. Omron makes highly-rated blood pressure monitors to help you do so, with several different models available at several different price points. The Omron 5 Series offers some good middle ground value. It has advanced accuracy technology, and it can connect to the Omron Connect app on either Android or iOS devices. It’s capable of indicating hypertension, monitoring pulse, monitoring heartbeat, and keeping track of changes in your blood pressure. The Omron 5 Series blood pressure monitor measures five times more data points for consistent, precise blood pressure readings, making it a great option to keep around the house.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
