Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Smart Home Deals Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? This bundle saves you $40 on a Google Nest Hub and Nest Cam By Jennifer Allen Close John Velasco / Digital Trends / Digital Trends Looking for great Google Home and Google Nest deals ? Best Buy has a fantastic bundle deal for anyone looking to buy the Google Nest Hub and some form of Google Nest Cam. In all cases, you save $40 on the bundle deal with the cheapest bundle including the Nest Hub and one Google Nest Cam (wired) for $160 instead of $200, or the Nest Hub with a Google Nest Cam wireless 2-pack for $390 instead of $430. We’re here to tell you more about what your options are. Here’s what you need to know so you can make an informed decision before the deal ends soon.
Why you should buy the Google Nest Hub and Google Nest Cam Google makes some of the best smart home devices around. The Google Nest Hub (2nd generation) is a great starting point for your smart home plans. It’s simple to use and easily connects to all your Nest speakers and displays. You can use it to show and control all your connected devices with a tap or by using Google Assistant to get things done with your voice.
Alongside that, it gives you a 7-inch screen for watching shows or YouTube videos, as well as playing music, so it’s a good addition to your kitchen or home office. Place it on your bedside table and you can track when you go to bed along with when you wake and how long you’ve slept for. It also has wind-down routines to help you sleep better such as by playing soothing sounds.
Save on everything from laptops and tablets, to coffee makers and air purifiers, and a whole host of Apple tech like iPad, Apple Watch and even the latest M3 MacBooks, as well as smart home essentials like the Amazon Echo and smart bulbs.
Where things get even better is if you combine the hub with the Google Nest Cam. Available as either the Google Nest Cam (wired) or Google Nest Cam Indoor/Outdoor Wire-Free Security Camera , the results are the same. With either, you can view live HD video of what’s going on around your home or outside. You’ll receive alerts any time it spots a person, animal, or vehicle, while you can also talk or listen to the person nearby. Night vision means it works just as well at night as it does during the day with HDR helping when it comes to handling high-contrast sunlight and brightness. It’s easily one of the best home security cameras around. You just need to decide if you want a wired or wire-free solution.
If you’re keen to make your home smarter and more secure, you’ll love the Google Nest Hub and Google Nest Cam bundle deals available right now at Best Buy. Available from just $160 for a Google Nest Hub and Google Nest Cam (wired), this is a good time to upgrade your home security for less. Check the deals out now by hitting the button below.
Editors' Recommendations The best early Keurig Black Friday deals — from $35 Best Buy Black Friday deals: 12 best offers you can shop now Best Black Friday vacuum deals on Shark, Roomba, Bissell, and more The best Black Friday refrigerator deals you can shop right now Black Friday battery deals: Save on AA and AAA batteries Deals Google Nest Smart Home Black Friday is a great time to save on tech as the holidays approach. Early Black Friday deals have already started to commence at several retailers, with all sorts of smart home devices seeing discounts. Blood pressure monitors are among them, and several make great competition for the best blood pressure monitors. Having a blood pressure monitor around the house can be beneficial, and right now it can help you land some savings. In fact, these early Black Friday deals are offering some of the best blood pressure monitor deals of the year, and we’ve tracked them all down.
Best blood pressure monitor Black Friday deal Omron 5 Series upper arm blood pressure monitor — $55, was $78 While the best fitness trackers can go a long way in helping you track your stats, they can only go so far. Maintaining good health includes maintaining the right blood pressure. Omron makes highly-rated blood pressure monitors to help you do so, with several different models available at several different price points. The Omron 5 Series offers some good middle ground value. It has advanced accuracy technology, and it can connect to the Omron Connect app on either Android or iOS devices. It’s capable of indicating hypertension, monitoring pulse, monitoring heartbeat, and keeping track of changes in your blood pressure. The Omron 5 Series blood pressure monitor measures five times more data points for consistent, precise blood pressure readings, making it a great option to keep around the house.
Smart Home With the arrival of this year's Black Friday deals, those who want to provide extra protection for their loved ones may want to check out the available security camera deals. Arlo is one of the most trusted brands for security cameras with products like the Arlo Pro 4 and Arlo Essential Indoor Cam, so you can be sure that there will be a lot of demand for its devices. Retailers will be trying to keep up with shoppers as they roll out discounts for individual cameras and bundles of Arlo security cameras, and to help you out, we've rounded up the top offers that you can shop right now.
Best Arlo bundle Black Friday deals If you want multiple security cameras in one package, or a complete bundle with accessories such as wall mounts and extra batteries, you should be on the lookout for Arlo bundles. These packages are for those who wish to add surveillance to several areas around the house, and with Arlo, setting up the entire system will be very easy. You'll enjoy big savings if you buy bundles instead of individual security cameras, and for Black Friday, the prices are even lower from retailers like Amazon, Best Buy, and Walmart.
Smart Home Looking for one of the best Keurig deals? Walmart has started its Black Friday deals early with a huge discount on the Keurig K-Express Essentials Single Serve K-Cup Pod Coffee Maker. Usually priced at $59, it's down to $35 for a limited time only at Walmart so you save $24 off the usual price. Sure to be a big hit with coffee lovers, let's take a quick look at what it offers, or you can simply hit the buy button now.
Why you should buy the Keurig K-Express Essentials Single Serve K-Cup Pod Coffee Maker Keurig makes some of the best coffee makers around. With the Keurig K-Express Essentials Single Serve K-Cup Pod Coffee Maker, you get a 36 ounce removable reservoir with room to accommodate travel mugs up to seven inches tall with the drip tray removed. Via the coffee maker, you can make a fresh cup of Joe in mere minutes. It's all done through simple button controls. All you have to do is add a K-Cup pod and use the controls to make a brew. There are options for three different cup sizes -- six ounces, eight ounces, and 10 ounces -- so you can find just the right size for your mood at the time.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
