Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Smart Home Deals Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? There’s a huge Google Nest camera, doorbell, and thermostat sale happening now By Aaron Mamiit Close Google Best Buy just launched early Black Friday deals for various smart home devices by Google Nest, including security cameras, video doorbells, and smart thermostats. There are 20 offers in total so it shouldn’t take you too much time to go through them, but you should be hurrying because these bargains may disappear at any moment. With Google Nest among the most trusted brands for smart home setups, stocks for some of these products may be gone sooner than you expect, so if you see something you like, push through with the purchase as soon as you can.
What to buy in Best Buy’s Google Nest sale If you’re looking for security camera deals , the Google Nest Cam is highly recommended in our roundup of the best home security cameras for its Google Assistant integration. It’s currently available for , following a $60 discount on its original price of $180. However, for an extra layer of protection, there’s the Google Nest Cam with Floodlight, which deter potential intruders with a floodlight that can automatically light up when it detects activity. It’s down to for savings of $90 on its sticker price of $280. Both cameras will allow you to look through their lens and communicate with visitors through the Google Home app, and they’re battery-powered so there will be no need to deal with cables.
If you prefer a video doorbell over a security camera, or if you want both of these devices protecting your home, you should check out the Google Nest Doorbell.
 It’s also battery-powered and you can see and talk to whoever’s outside your front door through the Google Home app. It’s on sale at $60 off, for a from $180. Meanwhile, for those searching for Nest Thermostat deals to be able to control your home’s temperature even while you’re away, the Google Nest Thermostat , which is our best budget smart thermostat among the best smart thermostats , is down to an even more instead of $130 for savings of $40.
You shouldn’t miss Best Buy’s Google Nest sale if you were planning to upgrade your smart home setup, as these early Black Friday deals may no longer be around by the time the shopping holiday rolls in. If you see an offer that you like from the ones we’ve highlighted above or from the complete list in the link below, we highly recommended that you complete the transaction immediately. That’s because you’re risking missing out on the discounts the further that you delay your purchases, so push through with them now.
Editors' Recommendations Best smart plug Black Friday deals: Get connected from just $10 The best early Keurig Black Friday deals — from $35 Best Buy Black Friday deals: 12 best offers you can shop now Nest Thermostat Black Friday deals: Save on all three models Best Ring Black Friday deals: Doorbells, security cameras, and bundles Deals Google Nest Smart Home The wait is finally over because Black Friday deals are now online, bringing discounts on all kinds of home appliances -- including vacuums. Whether you're planning to purchase an upright vacuum, a robot vacuum, or a cordless vacuum, you won't find any shortage of bargains, though we understand that the sheer number of offers may look overwhelming. To help you decide what to buy, we've rounded up the best Black Friday vacuum deals that you can purchase right now, which should give you the advantage over other shoppers. Hurry up, as stocks are probably selling quickly.
Best Black Friday vacuum deals An upright vacuum is still one of the most popular options if you want a cleaning device to pick up all kinds of dirt, debris, and pet hair. You're going to have to deal with a cord, but most people are probably used to them by now and it's a small price to pay for consistent power. Retailers like Amazon, Best Buy, and Walmart are offering discounted prices for upright vacuums from different brands, so whether you're on a tight budget or you're willing to splurge on one with all the bells and whistles, you'll surely find a deal that catches your attention.
Smart Home Shark makes a whole range of products, from hair dryers to air purifiers, and they're pretty reasonably priced compared to similar products from other brands. Even better, with November becoming the new Black Friday, there are a ton of great early Black Friday deals you can take advantage of on Shark products. Naturally, these deals are distributed across several different retailers, so we've done our best to collect the best deals and bring them to you here. Also, be sure to check back regularly as we update this page with newer and better deals.
Best Shark Hair Dryer Black Friday Deals While Shark might not be as fancy of a company as Dyson, they do make a pretty good hair dryer, and it even looks quite similar to the Dyson Supersonic. Luckily, none of Shark's products are as expensive, so you can get yourself a high-quality hair dryer for a pretty good price. But if it has to be a Dyson, check out Dyson Black Friday deals.
Smart Home Black Friday deals are in full swing even though we're a ways away from the official date. However, if you're keen to buy a new office chair at a great price, there are some fantastic early office chair Black Friday deals going on right now. We've highlighted some of the very best below so you can find something that suits your needs and budget in no time. Check them out below and enjoy superior comfort from the best office chairs around.
Best office chair Black Friday deal Lioncin Ergonomic Office Chair -- $96, was $399 For a fantastic bargain, consider the Lioncin Ergonomic Office Chair while it's on sale at a huge discount. It offers three support points for your back, hips, and hands, along with proper lumbar support. It's possible to adjust the seat height with there being 360-degree free rotation and a mesh design that supports both your back and shoulders. The breathable mesh stays in good shape and remains stable, all while allowing airflow to keep you cool thanks to being made from virgin cotton material.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
