Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Smart Home Deals Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Save on energy bills with a Google Nest Thermostat — now 30% off By John Alexander Close.
It’s a unique time of year. Depending on where you live, you could still be suffering from the last stings of a hot summer or making a peaceful transition to fall. In either case, temperature and energy bills can be hotly debated around this time. Do you let the house get a bit cooler or is it time to start cranking up the heat? Ultimately, we can’t answer this question for you, but we can recommend a cool smart thermostat while it is on sale. It’s the Google Nest Thermostat and it is just $87 while this deal is ongoing, which is $43 down from its usual $130. Tap the button below for one of the most seasonally appropriate Google Home deals you’re gonna find.
Why you should buy the Google Nest Thermostat The first thing you need to know about the Google Nest Thermostat is what it is and what it is not. It is not just a thermostat, a central “brain” for your home’s heating and cooling systems. The Google Nest Thermostat is designed to truly help you save energy and money, not just set a temperature, while also being more convenient at setting temps, too. For example, when you leave, it shuts down your system automatically. On the other hand, it analyzes your usage and suggests changes to wrangle your energy bills into something more manageable. The Google Nest Thermostat’s HVAC monitoring can be a life saver if those systems go down as well.
Our Google Nest Thermostat review highlighted the device’s easy installation and “set and forget” nature. From in use experience, we noticed that it was the type of machine that just works and you can easily forget about. In other words, a Google Nest Thermostat is your home is going to enhance your time living in the space and not be a flashy new device that takes up more time and attention than it deserves.
Save on everything from laptops and tablets, to coffee makers and air purifiers, and a whole host of Apple tech like iPad, Apple Watch and even the latest M3 MacBooks, as well as smart home essentials like the Amazon Echo and smart bulbs.
To try it out for yourself, at deal pricing, tap the button below. Remember, while this offer is in affect, the Google Nest Thermostat will cost $87 instead of the usual $130. That saves you $43 now. The energy-saving properties of the thermostat will have to help you find the rest of the money, though! Editors' Recommendations The best early Keurig Black Friday deals — from $35 The best Black Friday washer and dryer bundle deals happening now Best Black Friday vacuum deals on Shark, Roomba, Bissell, and more Shark Black Friday sale: Save on vacuums, air purifiers, and more NordicTrack Black Friday deals: Save on treadmills, exercise bikes Deals Google Nest Smart Home Black Friday is right around the corner, but we’re already starting to see some impressive Black Friday deals hitting the internet. Retailers like Best Buy, Amazon, and Walmart are all discounting a range of tech right now, and that includes some tech for the fitness enthusiasts out there. Peloton and NordicTrack are two of the most popular brands when it comes to fitness equipment (there are NordicTrack Black Friday deals too), with many people leaning toward Peloton as their favorite. Peloton particularly stands out when it comes to exercise bikes, offering a range of bikes with integrated smart features to help with a great workout. You’ll find some Peloton products among the current Black Friday deals, and we’ve tracked down the best Peloton Black Friday deals you can currently shop.
Best Peloton Black Friday deals If you’re looking to add an exercise bike to your home gym or daily fitness routine, you can do so with some savings this Black Friday shopping season. Peloton has a couple of exercise bikes seeing a Black Friday discount. A lot of other Peloton fitness equipment is currently discounted as well, including things like dumbbells, and cycling shoes made to strap into a Peloton bike. If you’re looking to improve your fitness routine with some Peloton equipment, now’s the time to save along the way.
Smart Home Black Friday deals are in full swing even though we're a ways away from the official date. However, if you're keen to buy a new office chair at a great price, there are some fantastic early office chair Black Friday deals going on right now. We've highlighted some of the very best below so you can find something that suits your needs and budget in no time. Check them out below and enjoy superior comfort from the best office chairs around.
Best office chair Black Friday deal Lioncin Ergonomic Office Chair -- $96, was $399 For a fantastic bargain, consider the Lioncin Ergonomic Office Chair while it's on sale at a huge discount. It offers three support points for your back, hips, and hands, along with proper lumbar support. It's possible to adjust the seat height with there being 360-degree free rotation and a mesh design that supports both your back and shoulders. The breathable mesh stays in good shape and remains stable, all while allowing airflow to keep you cool thanks to being made from virgin cotton material.
Smart Home This time of year is full of Black Friday deals that can save you money on massive investments like large appliances. If your eyes are firmly on a new refrigerator, we're here to help. We've picked out all the best Black Friday refrigerator deals going on right now. These include the best refrigerator brands who are responsible for the best refrigerators, such as LG, Samsung, and KitchenAid. Take a look below at all you need to know about how to save big on the current refrigerator Black Friday deals going on.
Best LG refrigerator Black Friday deals LG is a well regarded brand for many kitchen appliances from washing machines, dryers, to microwaves and -- of course -- refrigerators. Many of its refrigerators offer smart features as well as traditional favorites like ice makers and the option of different stylings. A worthy investment for any home, LG refrigerators are generally considered superior to many other options.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
