Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Smart Home Deals Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Google’s latest Nest Hub smart display is almost 50% off at Walmart By Aaron Mamiit Close Google If you know you know, Amazon’s Prime Day events are some of the best times to find fantastic deals on all of the latest tech, and the Prime Day Big Deal Days event that’s happening right now is no exception. But Amazon isn’t the only place where all of the fun can be had. You can get a smart display in your bedroom, living room, or multiple places around the house by taking advantage of Walmart’s offer that nearly halves the price of the second-generation Google Nest Hub. Instead of $100, the smart home device is down to a more affordable $60, for $40 in savings. You’ll need to proceed with the purchase as soon as possible if you’re interested, though, because we’re not sure what will happen first between the deal expiring or stocks running out.
Why you should buy the second-generation Google Nest Hub The second-generation Google Nest Hub , the follow-up to the first-generation Google Nest Hub released in 2018, is our top choice for a no-camera display in our list of the best smart displays.
 While it doesn’t offer the option of engaging in video chats because of the lack of a camera, there’s a 7-inch touchscreen that you can use to access all of your other smart home devices and watch streaming content and tutorial videos. You’ll also be able to ask the Google Assistant to perform a variety of functions using voice commands, including creating reminders and broadcasting messages to the other Google Nest Hub smart displays around the house.
The most interesting feature you’ll get with the second-generation Google Nest Hub is its Sleep Sensing technology, which can detect your movement and breathing to determine if you’ve fallen asleep. A dashboard on the smart display will show you data such as how long it took for you to fall asleep from when you climbed into your bed, your respiratory rate while you were sleeping, and your sleep efficiency after taking into account snoring, coughing, and other restless periods.
Save on everything from laptops and tablets, to coffee makers and air purifiers, and a whole host of Apple tech like iPad, Apple Watch and even the latest M3 MacBooks, as well as smart home essentials like the Amazon Echo and smart bulbs.
Every room in your home and every family member will benefit from the addition of the second-generation Google Nest Hub, especially if you buy multiple smart displays from Walmart. From its original price of $100, it’s down to just $60 each, following a $40 discount. Plus, the more you buy at one time, and at these prices, the more you’ll save. You’re going to have to hurry in completing the transaction, though, because if you take too long to think about it, the bargain price for the second-generation Google Nest Hub may no longer be available when you get back.
Editors' Recommendations Nest Black Friday deals: Nest Hub, Nest Cameras, Nest Thermostats Walmart just discounted this cordless vacuum and mop to $99 The best smart displays for 2023 Black Friday deal saves you $100 on Google’s Nest Hub Max smart display There’s a huge Google Nest camera, doorbell, and thermostat sale happening now Deals Amazon Amazon Prime Day Google Nest Smart Home For amazing air fryer deals, check out what Best Buy has on sale right now. You can buy the Ninja Foodi 6-in-1 10-quart XL 2-basket air fryer for just $130 so you're saving $120 off the regular price of $250. A truly exceptional device, you'll simply never need to use your cooker again, all while gaining better cooked food too. If that sounds immediately tempting, keep reading while we take you through just how great the Ninja Foodi 6-in-1 10-quart XL 2-basket air fryer is. Alternatively, you can tap the buy button below to get straight to making a purchase.
Why you should buy the Ninja Foodi 6-in-1 10-quart XL 2-basket air fryer The Ninja Foodi 6-in-1 10-quart XL 2-basket air fryer is easily one of the best air fryers around, but even that statement is underselling it. It does so much. It has two 5-quart cooking baskets so you can cook two different food items in two different ways, all while still finishing at the same time. The size of the baskets means you could cook a whole chicken in one side while cooking all your veggies in the other. DualZone technology means that this air fryer has Smart Finish so it intelligently syncs settings in each zone so that both foods cook accurately and finish together. There's also Match Cook if you want the settings on one side to transfer to the other. At a touch of a button, you can always use the integrated Foodi Smart Thermometer to check that the food is perfectly cooked.
Smart Home Having your home set up to be smart can be very convenient, whether it's regulating the light when you're coming and going from home to talking between family members and sending reminders. There's a ton you can do with a smart home, but if you want to control it all without carrying your phone around, grabbing a smart home device to act as a hub is a good idea. To that end, if you're already in the Google ecosystem, this deal on the Google Nest Hub will let you nab a great hub device for relatively cheap. While it usually goes for $100, you can grab it from Best Buy for just $60, a great $40 discount you can put towards something else.
Why you should buy the Google Nest Hub The Google Nest Hub is a mix between a smart screen and a smart speaker, and while it can do both, it can't do them particularly well, which, surprisingly, isn't a dealbreaker. In terms of the screen, you get a 7-inch display running a 1024 x 600 resolution, which, truthfully, is not great for watching shows or films. That said, if you're using it next to your nightstand for time, weather, and other general controls, that's fine, and it's similarly great if you want to stick it in the kitchen to have something to look at from time to time as you cook. Sadly, there's no webcam for you to have video calls on, but it also means you don't have to worry about privacy, so the Nest Hub can go into any room without issue.
Smart Home Amazon's October Prime Day deals may be over, but there are still a lot of discount online if you're thinking about improving your home's security. Here's a bundle from Best Buy that you should consider -- the Ring Video Doorbell and the Ring Stick Up Cam for just $100, for savings of $100 on their supposed total price of $200. It's not always that you can get a pair of high-quality security devices for half-price, so you should take advantage of this offer while it's still online.
Why you should buy the Ring Video Doorbell and Ring Stick Up Cam The second-generation Ring Video Doorbell is highlighted as the best entry-level option in our roundup of the best video doorbells because even if it's affordable, it offers most of the important features such as live HD video and two-way talk through either the Ring app or a smart home device powered by Amazon's Alexa, customizable motion zone settings, and easy installation as it runs on a rechargeable battery. The Ring Video Doorbell also offers infrared night vision, so you'll be able to see what's outside your front door even if it's dark.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
