Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Smart Home Guides How to create a room in Google Home By Jon Bitner Close If you have tons of smart home gadgets scattered throughout your house, you’ll want to make use of Google Home’s ability to create rooms. This allows you to easily manage all your devices by categorizing them into groups based on their location.
How to create a room with Google Home.
Rename a room in Google Home.
How to delete a room in Google Home.
Difficulty Duration What You Need Google Home Smart home device Smartphone For example, if you have more than one Nest Mini in your home, placing one in the Dining Room tab and another in the Living Room tab is the perfect way to streamline its operation. Here’s a look at how to create rooms in Google Home, along with how to rename a room or delete an unwanted room.
Google How to create a room with Google Home.
When you’re first installing a Google Home device, you’ll stumble across an option to create a new room. If you miss this step (or later decide you want a room), here’s how you can manually create a room with Google Home.
Step 1: Open Google Home.
Step 2: Select the Favorites or Devices menu.
The 11 best smart home products that support Matter How to add Arlo cameras to Apple HomeKit Arlo enhances home security offerings with new Arlo Total Security plans Step 3: Tap and hold on the device you’d like to place in a room.
Step 4: Select the Settings menu.
Step 5: Select the Room submenu.
Step 6: Select Create New , then tap next.
Step 7: You’ll now be able to create a room in Google Home.
Rename a room in Google Home.
If you want to change the name of a room in Google Home, the process is simple. You’ll just need to open the Google Home app, dive into the Settings menu, then open the Devices, groups, and rooms submenu. From here, select the room you want to rename, then click the Name button. You’ll then be able to enter a new name for the room.
Image used with permission by copyright holder How to delete a room in Google Home.
No longer need a room in Google Home? There’s an easy way to delete it. Keep in mind that deleting a room will also remove all devices from the room, though you’ll have the option to add them to a separate room if desired. Here’s how to delete a room in Google Home.
Step 1: Open Google Home.
Step 2: Select Settings.
Step 3: Open the Devices, groups, and room menu.
Step 4: Find the room you want to delete.
Step 5: Press the Delete room option to complete the process.
Editors' Recommendations Nest Black Friday deals: Nest Hub, Nest Cameras, Nest Thermostats Nest Thermostat Black Friday deals: Save on all three models The best smart home devices for 2023 The SwitchBot Mini Robot Vacuum K10+ is designed for cramped rooms and tight spaces The best outdoor security cameras of 2023 Google Google Nest How-To Guides Smart Home The refreshed Apple HomePod is one of the best smart speakers on the market. It offers booming sound, a great design, and access to the Siri voice assistant. It also costs quite a bit of cash -- making it one of the most expensive smart speakers. On the other side of the pricing spectrum is the Echo Pop, which is remarkably cheap and gives you access to the Alexa voice assistant.
But is the HomePod (Gen 2) worth the added cost? Or are you better off opting for the affordable Echo Pop? Here's a closer look at the two smart speakers to help you figure out which is best for your needs.
Pricing and design Smart Home With porch pirates always on the prowl to steal your packages, one of the best ways to protect your family from them is to invest in security camera deals. The Google Nest Cam with Floodlight is an excellent choice for this purpose, especially since it's currently on sale from Best Buy for a more affordable $190 following a $90 discount on its sticker price of $280. This is one of the retailer's early Black Friday deals, but since there's no assurance that it will remain available until the shopping holiday, it's highly recommended that you proceed with purchasing it right now.
Why you should buy the Google Nest Cam with Floodlight Once you've installed the Google Nest Cam with Floodlight and connected it to your home's Wi-Fi network, you'll never have to worry about your packages getting stolen again. The security camera's built-in intelligence is capable of telling the difference between a person, vehicle, and animal, and once it detects motion, it will send an alert through the Google Home app on your smartphone. You can then look through the device's 1080p HD camera to see what happened, and if the activity happens at night, you can set the floodlight to illuminate the area for a better view and to deter the potential thief.
Smart Home Best Buy has one of the best security camera deals at the moment as part of its early Black Friday deals. You can currently buy the Arlo Pro 4 Spotlight Camera Security Bundle for $280 saving you a huge $320 off the regular price of $600. A fantastic deal for anyone keen to secure their home better, the whole kit is simple to install. Here's what you need to know before you hit the buy button.
Why you should buy the Arlo Pro 4 Spotlight Camera Security Bundle The Arlo Pro 4 tops our look at the best home security cameras so you're onto a good thing here. By buying this bundle, you don't just get one Arlo Pro 4. Instead, you get three of the cameras along with four rechargeable batteries, a dual battery charging station, and three anti-theft mounts.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
