Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Smart Home Deals Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Prime Day sale brings a discount on the Nest Learning Thermostat By Aaron Mamiit Close Google With the launch of Amazon’s Prime Big Deal Days 2023, retailers have rolled out their own offers so they won’t be left behind. But Amazon, showing its king of sales, has an excellent offer you should consider if you’re interested in starting or expanding your smart home system — the third-generation Google Nest Learning Thermostat at $50 off, bringing its price down to $200 from $249 originally. We expect this bargain to generate a lot of attention, so before stocks run out, you should proceed with the purchase right now.
Why you should buy the third-generation Google Nest Learning Thermostat The third-generation Google Nest Learning Thermostat is in our list of the best smart thermostats as the top option if you have a Google Home system up and running. However, it’s still a worthwhile investment if it will be your first smart home device because of the convenience that it will bring to you and your family. Like any smart thermostat , you can control it using smartphones , tablets , or other internet-connected devices to change the temperature at home and to schedule when you want it to set certain temperatures at any time of the day, The main selling point of the third-generation Google Nest Learning Thermostat, however, is the fact that it is capable of learning your habits after you make manual adjustments for a certain amount of time, and it takes note of how people move around the house. It will then be able to automatically adjust your home’s temperature, so you’ll eventually no longer have to make routine changes yourself. You can see the smart thermostat in action by monitoring the temperature on its bright 3.25-inch screen.
The best offer in this year’s Prime Day deals for the third-generation Google Nest Learning Thermostat is from Amazon, selling the smart home device at $50 off. You’ll only have to pay $200 instead of $249, but only if you’re able to secure your purchase before stocks run out. There’s a chance that the bargain goes offline much sooner than you expect, so if you want to get the third-generation Google Nest Learning Thermostat for much cheaper than usual, you should push through with the transaction as soon as possible.
Editors' Recommendations Best smart plug Black Friday deals: Get connected from just $10 The best early Keurig Black Friday deals — from $35 Nest Black Friday deals: Nest Hub, Nest Cameras, Nest Thermostats Nest Thermostat Black Friday deals: Save on all three models Best Black Friday vacuum deals on Shark, Roomba, Bissell, and more Deals Amazon Amazon Prime Day Google Nest Smart Home Shark makes a whole range of products, from hair dryers to air purifiers, and they're pretty reasonably priced compared to similar products from other brands. Even better, with November becoming the new Black Friday, there are a ton of great early Black Friday deals you can take advantage of on Shark products. Naturally, these deals are distributed across several different retailers, so we've done our best to collect the best deals and bring them to you here. Also, be sure to check back regularly as we update this page with newer and better deals.
Best Shark Hair Dryer Black Friday Deals While Shark might not be as fancy of a company as Dyson, they do make a pretty good hair dryer, and it even looks quite similar to the Dyson Supersonic. Luckily, none of Shark's products are as expensive, so you can get yourself a high-quality hair dryer for a pretty good price. But if it has to be a Dyson, check out Dyson Black Friday deals.
Smart Home Herman Miller makes some of the best office chairs around but they're far from cheap. Instead, they're considered to be a worthy but pricy investment for your home office. After all, your health is priceless so it's important to keep your spine and limbs supported while you're working away. While it's rare to see a Herman Miller sale, for once, that's changed. The Herman Miller Black Friday sale is underway representing some of the best Black Friday deals around at the moment. If you're looking to upgrade your office equipment to something stylish and incredibly comfortable, read on while we take you through the highlights of the sale.
Best Herman Miller Black Friday deal Herman Miller Aeron Chair -- $956, was $1,275 The Herman Miller Aeron Chair represents some of the best that Herman Miller has to offer. It provides you with the ideal sit which is having your chest open, shoulders back, and pelvis tilted slightly forward. It has breathable fabric that keeps you cool and comfortable even on the warmest of days, while there are adjustable PostureFit SL pads which provide lumbar support and help stabilize the base of your spine.
Smart Home Update: Walmart has now ran out of stock of this particular deal. Fear not, though -- there are plenty of other office chair Black Friday deals happening right now, including an official Herman Miller Black Friday sale! When upgrading your gaming or work space with things like a keyboard, mouse, and desk, it's important to not forget the most important thing of all: the thing you're sitting on. Making sure you grab a solid chair can have a lot of benefits beyond comfort, such as health. Of course, one of the best brands is Herman Miller, but its products tend to be very expensive, and it rarely has deals. Luckily, Lioncin has a chair similar to Herman Miller chairs and is going for only a fraction of the price as part of this Black Friday sale. You can pick it up for just $96 from Walmart instead of the usual $399, which is a massive $303 discount.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
