Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Web Features Astroagriculture: How we’ll grow crops on Mars By Georgina Torbet Close If we ever hope to send people to live on Mars for an extended period of time, we’ll need to keep them warm, safe, and well-fed. That last requirement poses a challenge on a mission that can carry only a limited amount of supplies. Even if canned beans weren’t so heavy, no one wants to subsist off of them for a year-long mission.
The basic essentials Cultivating life in dead soil Fertilizing the soil Getting rid of the nasties The problem of perchlorates Setting up a system Everything we need The future of Mars habitation requires freshly grown fruits, vegetables, and grains. But how do you farm on a poisonous, deadly planet like Mars? To get an answer, we spoke to three Mars researchers from the fields of ecology, geology, and biochemistry.
This article is part of Life On Mars – a 10-part series that explores the cutting-edge science and technology that will allow humans to occupy Mars Cosmic comms: How the first humans on Mars will communicate with Earth Astropsychology: How to stay sane on Mars Power plants on other planets: How we’ll generate electricity on Mars The basic essentials Plants are hardy things, but they have some essential requirements. To grow well, they need warmth, reasonable atmospheric pressure, and protection from harmful radiation. Those things would be a challenge to provide on Mars, except for the fact that humans need all of them as well.
Food for Mars and Moon/Facebook The simplest solution would be that whatever habitat you build to house astronauts on Mars you also build to house all the crops. Add some simple LED lights, and the astronauts can easily tend to their plants as they grow. Adding lights should counteract any effects of Mars’ lower gravity since, even in zero gravity, plants naturally grow roots away from light sources. The sealed environment even has the advantage that you can control conditions like temperature and humidity.
Wieger Wamelink, a plant breeder and ecologist at Wageningen University who is one of the leading researchers on agriculture on the moon and Mars, told Digital Trends that growing plants in space is actually very comparable to city agriculture, the movement to grow food efficiently in urban settings. Often, that’s accomplished by setting up sterile environments in indoor habitats with LED lights. In principle, he said, “that’s something you can do on Mars, or in the desert if you want to, or in a city.” Cultivating life in dead soil The biggest barrier to growing crops on Mars, though, is the lack of something seemingly simple: Good old-fashioned dirt. Soil on Earth is full of living organisms as well as certain minerals, like phosphorus and potassium, that plants use. Mars doesn’t have soil — instead, it has a dead, dusty material called regolith covering its surface.
We don’t know the exact details of what this regolith is composed of, and it might have different compositions in different regions. But we do have a rough idea of what’s in it, which has allowed NASA to develop a regolith simulant. This is essentially a re-creation of Martian soil based on our current knowledge the planet’s surface.
Food for Mars and Moon/Facebook That means you can experiment with Martian “soil” here on Earth. While the simulant isn’t cheap, it is available to purchase for research purposes. Around a decade ago, Wamelink wondered if the simulant could be used to grow crops and looked into the subject. “What I found out,” he said, “much to my surprise I must say, is no one ever tried that.” So he started planting seeds in Mars, moon, and Earth soil to compare their growth. In his first experiments, Wamelink expected plants would struggle in the Mars simulant. “It’s a very nutrient-poor soil,” he explained. It has no organic matter in it, and it contains heavy metals that could prevent plants from germinating. “My expectations were very low,” he said.
His team planted 4,200 seeds of 14 different species, expecting that most of them would die. But the results were very different from what the researchers predicted. Almost all the seeds germinated — some of them within 24 hours. This actually caused problems, Wamelink said with a laugh, because the team suddenly had to tend to a huge crop of over 4,000 plants.
The plants required a lot of careful watering because the regolith is hydrophobic, meaning it doesn’t absorb much moisture. So future Martian farmers will need plenty of water to keep their crops growing.
facebook.com/plugins/video.php?height=314&href=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.facebook.com%2FFood.for.Mars.and.moon%2Fvideos%2F1871049883118276%2F&show_text=false&width=560" width="560" height="314" frameborder="0" scrolling="no" allowfullscreen="allowfullscreen"> And while the plants did grow in the Mars regolith simulant, they reached only a few centimeters high and didn’t produce anything edible. To get plants to grow to a full size and produce vegetables, you need to add nutrients.
Fertilizing the soil A key component that Mars soil is missing as far as plants are concerned is organic matter. Organic matter is a particularly important source of nutrients when broken down by bacteria, which means we’ll need to add bacteria to future growing regions as well.
Imperial College London Fortunately, as walking colonies of microbes, humans are bristling with bacteria. So, although it’s a rather unpleasant concept, we do have a way to acquire them. The most efficient method would be to preserve the urine and feces produced by astronauts on their monthslong journey to Mars, then add it to the regolith to cultivate bacteria. If you’ve seen the movie The Martian , where lost astronaut Mark Watney grows potatoes in Mars soil with his and his crewmates’ sewage, it’s the same concept. However, to keep everyone healthy, you’d need to take steps to kill off any pathogens that could be transmitted via human waste.
You could help along the process of digesting organic matter and recycling it into the soil by introducing worms. Even on Mars, earthworms are a gardener’s best friend, as they digest organic matter and produce fertilizer along with digging tunnels that provide important aeration and water retention for the plant roots to grow. “I think they are essential for a good system,” Wamelink said. Plus, worm eggs can be stored for a long time, making them potentially transportable to Mars.
Food for Mars and Moon/Facebook Once your Mars regolith is enriched with nutrients, organic matter, bacteria, and worms, you can start planting seeds. Seeds can be brought from Earth without too much trouble as they’re small and light.
Future Mars-dwellers may have a more varied choice of diet than you imagine. Wamelink tells me that all kinds of edible plants can grow in Martian regolith simulant. So while the hydroponic systems used in places like the International Space Station, where plants are grown not in soil but suspended in a nutrient solution, are better suited to growing leafy greens than starchy vegetables, you can grow practically anything in soil. Mars regolith simulant has been used to grow potatoes, green beans, tomatoes, carrots, radishes, wheat, rye, and more.
Getting rid of the nasties One of the concerns about the safety of Mars soil is the presence of dangerous heavy metals. “It’s not only zinc, which we need a little bit of, but also cadmium, lead, mercury — all things you don’t want in your food,” Wamelink said.
However, that isn’t necessarily as big a problem as you might think. “That’s not really different from Earth,” he pointed out, as heavy metals can be found in our soil too. The issue is whether these heavy metals are bound in a way that prevents them from being released into the soil and subsequently absorbed by plants.
The good news is that when vegetables grown in the simulant were analyzed, they were found to be safe to eat. Heavy metals were below dangerous levels in all the food, and in some cases the levels were even lower in the regolith-grown vegetables than in the vegetables grown in regular potting soil, perhaps due to pollutants like car exhaust contaminating the soil here on Earth.
There is also a concern about how acidic the soil is on the moon and Mars, which could limit the plants’ ability to access another essential molecule, phosphate. A new area of research being considered is whether adding certain types of fungi to the regolith could solve this issue.
“We can take fungi with us to Mars that can grow actually in rocks and release phosphates,” Wamelink suggested as a future avenue for exploration. “They live in symbiosis with the roots of the plants.” The problem of perchlorates Perhaps the biggest barrier to growing food safely on Mars is the issue of perchlorates, chemicals found in the regolith that are toxic to both humans and plants. These are so dangerous that they aren’t included in simulant samples for health reasons.
Recent research has suggested that the presence of these perchlorates in the regolith might be more of a problem than previously realized. When researchers took regolith simulant and added calcium perchlorate in amounts similar to those found on Mars, plants weren’t able to grow in it even when extra nutrients were added.
That doesn’t mean we have to give up on the dream of Mars-grown food though. Andrew Palmer of the Florida Institute of Technology, senior author of the study, told Digital Trends in an email that while the presence of perchlorates on Mars is challenge for food production, “it isn’t a deal breaker.” It should be possible to introduce microorganisms or specific plants into the ecosystem to clean the toxins from the regolith in a process called bioremediation. “Such helpers are common players in our ecosystems on Earth. There is no reason we should ignore their potential to contribute to the ecosystem we are designing for our Martian colonists,” he said.
Food for Mars and Moon/Facebook Another researcher involved in studies on the viability of regolith for growing crops , Laura Fackrell of the University of Georgia, concurred that perchlorates were a challenge but not an insurmountable one. She suggested perchlorates could be cleaned from the regolith using bacteria, as there are multiple bacteria species that can consume or degrade perchlorates, some of which are used for cleaning contaminated water here on Earth.
 But there are challenges here too. This reaction produces both oxygen and chloride — and although chloride is nontoxic and can be beneficial to plant growth, too much of it can harm or even kill plants. We need more research to know what its effects on plant life would be. “We do not have enough data to say if the amount of chloride produced by this process would be too much for plants, but it is likely to be,” she said.
Another potential solution would be to literally wash the perchlorates out of the regolith. Perchlorates are a kind of salt and are soluble in water, so rinsing the regolith would remove them. “However, this also might remove other nutrients like nitrates,” Fackrell warned. Not to mention the issues with using precious water for this purpose.
The presence of perchlorates isn’t necessarily all bad news though. Fackrell pointed out that having bacteria consume perchlorates to clean the soil would produce the useful byproduct of oxygen, which could be a part of a sustainable system for meeting astronauts’ needs: “Perchlorates represent a very real challenge; however, they also present opportunity to be turned into a resource for oxygen.” Setting up a system It helps to think about setting up agriculture on Mars as a long-term game. The aim is not just to grow a single yield of crops but to set up a sustainable system.
The first harvest is the hardest. Once that is done and the bacteria are established, any plant matter left over from previous harvests can be added back to the soil, which both adds nutrients and helps to hold water. So over time, the soil will become more fertile and more hospitable to plants.
That means there’s a strong impetus to start attempts to grow plants as soon as humans arrive on Mars for any length of time. “I think you have to start from the first expedition to start to grow your own food. Otherwise, it most likely won’t be possible to do so,” Wamelink said. The early expeditions would certainly bring their own food as well, in case there were issues with crop growth. But they could begin the process of making the soil usable.
It’s also possible to preserve the cultivated soil between missions as long as it has air, light, and warmth. You can sow certain crops like non-edible types of cabbage, which can be left to fertilize the soil while you are away. This is the same principle that farmers use in Wamelink’s home country of the Netherlands to improve their soil over the winter.
Another consideration is how you deal with plant pollination, both for a more generous harvest and to create seeds for future crops. Many species of plants use the wind to carry their pollen around. But that means you would need to set up airflow in a Mars habitat, which wouldn’t be easy. There is another option, though, which is to use bees.
Bees are excellent pollinators and could be brought from Earth to live in a Martian habitat. Bumblebee queens could potentially be put into hibernation for a space journey and then released to spread around the pollen.
Flies are another option, and they have another advantage: Fly larvae can be edible, and as squeamish as many people might be about eating them, they could provide an important source of protein in an otherwise vegetarian or vegan diet.
Everything we need Despite the many complexities of growing food on Mars, it is theoretically possible. There are many details yet to be worked out, but in principal we may be able to grow crops there as long as astronauts bring the right materials with them. “I have a shopping list!” Wamelink joked.
The one limitation he did stress was that all these experiments have been based on the Mars simulant currently available, so the results are only as accurate as the simulant is. The issue of perchlorates and how they might affect both plants and humans is an open one, and future missions like the Mars Sample Return should help us become more certain about exactly what we can expect from the Mars environment.
It won’t be easy, but astronauts could one day enjoy fresh, Mars-grown vegetables as an everyday part of their diet. “You have to do many things to get it going,” Wamelink cautioned, “but we know now how to do it.” This article is part of Life On Mars – a 10-part series that explores the cutting-edge science and technology that will allow humans to occupy Mars Editors' Recommendations A cosmological commute: The tricky logistics of putting people on Mars Perfecting propulsion: How we’ll get humans to Mars Castles made of sand: How we’ll make habitats with Martian soil Artificial atmospheres: How we’ll build a base with breathable air on Mars Harvesting hydration: How future settlers will create and collect water on Mars Features Life on Mars Web When NASA's Perseverance rover lands on Mars this week, it'll begin one of the most ambitious scientific endeavors imaginable: Looking for evidence that life once evolved on an alien world. Scientists are pretty certain that there's nothing living on Mars now, but they think there could have been at one point in the planet's history – and the rover is visiting a site called the Jezero Crater to learn more.
You may have heard that Perseverance is searching for signs of ancient life, and you might even have heard that it's heading to Jezero because that's a prime target in that search.
But why are scientists so interested in going to this one particular location? How do you guess where life might have evolved millions or billions of years ago, on an alien planet? What makes Jezero so special? We spoke to an expert in Mars geology, Katie Stack Morgan of NASA's Jet Propulsion Laboratory, to find out.
The hunt for life is on The headline draw of the Jezero Crater is the nearby delta deposit. Millions of years ago, Mars had plentiful liquid water on its surface, and the landscape was dotted with rivers and valleys. That meant that craters like Jezero filled up with water, and when water flowed into the crater from a river, it formed a delta comparable to the Mississippi Delta on Earth.
Deltas are incredible targets for searching for signs of life, both because they provide a comfortable environment for life to emerge and because they concentrate organic matter in a way that makes it easier to detect.
However, like basically every aspect of Mars exploration, it's not quite as simple as finding a structure that looks like a delta and hunting through that. That's because it's hard to tell the history of water on a planet that is now so dry.
Perseverance aims to land right in front of this delta to begin searching for signs of life.
Web Imagine: You've designed and built a billion-dollar rover to investigate another planet and launched it into space. It's made its way through the darkness on a seven-month journey to Mars, and it's finally arrived at its destination. Now, you just have to get it to the surface and you can start exploring.
The landing isn't going to be easy, though. Your craft will be traveling at over 12,000 miles per hour when it hits the martian atmosphere – and that atmosphere is so thin that parachutes work differently there than they do on Earth. Fluctuations in wind speeds and the amount of dust in the atmosphere are extremely hard to predict and can affect the landing. And you need to set down your 2,200-pound rover gently enough not to break anything.
Oh, and on top of all that, Mars is so far away that there's a communication delay of up to 20 minutes, so you can't control anything in real time. You have to program the craft to land itself, and once descent begins, you can't do anything to help it. You can only sit and watch as your precious spacecraft goes hurtling toward the planet's surface, in a period that engineers call the “seven minutes of terror”.
Overseeing this nail-biting horror is the real-life job of Gregorio Villar, a systems engineer on the the Entry, Descent, and Landing (EDL) team for the Perseverance rover at NASA's Jet Propulsion Laboratory (JPL). He told us about what it takes to land a rover on Mars.
The journey to Mars The rover travels to Mars safely cocooned in a spacecraft, in a segment of the mission called the cruise. During this journey, engineers keep watch on the spacecraft and make small adjustments to its flight path to ensure it's going in the right direction.
As the spacecraft approaches Mars, the engineers have their final opportunities to make any tweaks to its speed and direction. One of the most important tasks for the engineers before landing begins is for them to inform the spacecraft of its position relative to the planet as accurately as possible, so that the landing process can start in exactly the right place.
Web When you imagine the challenges of putting humans on Mars, you likely think of the big issues: Designing a rocket to carry astronauts through the solar system, building a habitat to keep them safe, and making sure they have water to drink and food to eat.
These are certainly significant challenges. But the most serious problem for human exploration of Mars may in fact come in the form of something tiny: Dust. Mars is one of the dustiest places in our solar system, subject to epic dust storms that cover the entire planet and can last for weeks at a time. And this dust can cause problems in everything from astronaut health to landing a vehicle on the planet's surface to the operation of life support systems.
To learn more about the big problems caused by these tiny particles, we spoke to two experts on Martian weather and human exploration of Mars.
What's the problem with a bit of dust? If it seems odd that something as small as dust could be a major challenge in space exploration, consider the many different ways this apparently minor inconvenience has affected missions in the past. Moondust turned out to be a major issue on the Apollo missions, as lunar dust is extremely sharp and abrasive. It stuck to everything due to static electricity and was so corrosive that it ate through spacesuits and containers.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
