Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Web Features Harvesting hydration: How future settlers will create and collect water on Mars By Georgina Torbet Close But there’s lots of work to do before we’ll be ready for a person to set foot on the red planet.
Finding water on Mars X marks the spot A new tool for detecting ice Accessing the water once we find it Baked rocks Making water safe Of all the resources that visitors to Mars will require, one of the most significant is water – not only for drinking, but also for making rocket propellant and other substances like oxygen. And if we’re hoping to set up agriculture there , we’ll need a whole lot of water to keep crops growing.
Cosmic comms: How the first humans on Mars will communicate with Earth Astropsychology: How to stay sane on Mars Power plants on other planets: How we’ll generate electricity on Mars But the surface of Mars looks like a dry, inhospitable desert. Today, Mars has no lakes, no rivers, and no rainfall.
So where will we get our water from? We spoke to three experts to find out.
This article is part of Life On Mars – a 10-part series that explores the cutting-edge science and technology that will allow humans to occupy Mars Finding water on Mars Even though we’re many years away from establishing a fully operational base on Mars, space agencies like NASA are already thinking about the water issue. Bringing water from Earth is impractical – it’s far too heavy to carry all the water required for a mission in a rocket. So the plan is to collect water from the Mars environment, and to do that we’d need to know where water is located.
ESA/DLR/FU Berlin The good news is that there is plenty of water in the form of ice on the surface of Mars, including ice covering the poles and in huge craters.
 The bad news is that a mission to these freezing cold regions presents its own problems, like the amount of energy it would take to keep both humans and machines warm in temperatures as low as -240°F. That’s why the focus of most Mars missions are the mid-latitude regions, where temperatures are milder.
There isn’t ice on the surface in these regions, though there is ice below ground. But unless you want to send out an astronaut with a shovel to sample every patch of dirt on the planet, you need a way to map that subsurface ice quickly and efficiently.
X marks the spot That’s what Gareth Morgan and Than Putzig of the Planetary Science Institute are working on as part of the Subsurface Water Ice Mapping (SWIM) project. They and their colleagues have combined 20 years of data from five different orbital Mars instruments to map out where ice is most likely located beneath the surface. On their own, each dataset, such as radar readings or indications of hydrogen, can only tell you so much about whether ice is in a particular location, but in combination, they can indicate what the prime locations for finding ice would be.
Two views of the northern hemisphere of Mars (orthographic projection centered on the north pole), both with a gray background of shaded relief. On the left, the light gray shading shows the northern ice stability zone, which overlaps with the purple shading of the SWIM study region. On the right, the blue-gray-red shading shows where the SWIM study found evidence for the presence (blue) or absence (red) of buried ice. The intensity of the colors reflects the degree of agreement (or consistency) exhibited by all of the datasets used by the project.
Planetary Science Institute The goal of their work is to help NASA select future landing sites for crewed missions so astronauts could access subsurface ice, while allowing as much freedom as possible to select a scientifically interesting exploration area.
“Technology and engineering is going to define how to put humans on Mars,” Morgan said, “and they’re going to have their own constraints of where that can happen. They also want the science community to find the most scientifically viable, interesting, fascinating places to land. So our job is to bridge both those worlds by giving both teams a broad understanding of where the resources are.” This map can show where ice is likely to be found, but only if that ice is less than five meters below ground. It’s also difficult to be precise about exactly how deep the ice is located in any given area because the sensing methods used can only provide rough estimates of ice content there.
And there’s a big practical difference in how difficult it is to access ice that’s a few inches below the surface versus ice that’s beneath meters of dense rock.
A new tool for detecting ice To work out how deep ice is on Mars, we’ll need new efforts like the Mars Ice Mapper mission : A spacecraft that NASA and other international space agencies are working on together that will orbit Mars and use two types of radar methodologies to detect how deep ice is located under the surface.
NASA “The central idea is to have a higher-frequency, higher-resolution radar,” Putzig explained. The Ice Mapper mission is still in its concept stage, and he and Morgan aren’t directly involved in it. But they have heard about the concepts for the mission from other scientists, and they shared some details about how it will work.
The first radar method the mapper will use is called synthetic aperture radar imaging. This involves a radar pointed at an angle to the surface, which “gives you a sense of the broad distribution of shallow ice,” Putzig said. “You can map that out over a large region relatively quickly with that method.” The second method is radar sounding, where the radar is pointed straight down to bounce off the top of the layer of ice. This tells you how deep the ice layer is. When you combine the two, “you get a map view and a cross-sectional view,” he said.
And then you know where to dig.
Accessing the water once we find it Locating ice is just the first step in collecting water. To get from blocks of solid ice beneath the ground to clean, safe water for drinking and other purposes, we’ll need to find a way to extract and process the ice.
If you know how deep the ice is located and you think there is a sizable amount of ice to access, you can drill down to get to it. The problem, as Sydney Do, the Mars Water Mapping Project lead at NASA’s Jet Propulsion Laboratory, explained, is that you need to know what kind of rock you will be drilling through so you can bring the right tool for the job.
This rainbow-colored map shows underground water ice on Mars. Cool colors are closer to the surface than warm colors; black zones indicate areas where a spacecraft would sink into fine dust; the outlined box represents the ideal region to send astronauts for them to dig up water ice.
Credits: NASA/JPL-Caltech/ASU Currently, our understanding of the composition of the Mars surface and subsurface is limited, which has caused problems on Mars missions like InSight, where the lander’s heat probe couldn’t get beneath the surface because the soil had slightly different levels of friction than was expected. So we’ll need more information about the composition of rocks in a particular area before we can design a drill to tunnel into it.
Once you’ve drilled a hole down to the ice, you can use a system called a Rodriguez well, currently in use on Earth in places like Antarctica , to access water. Essentially, you submerge a heated rod into the drilled hole, which melts the ice and creates a well of liquid water that you can then pump to the surface. This requires supplying energy in the form of heat, but it’s an efficient way to access potentially large amounts of water.
Baked rocks There is also another option for collecting water: We could extract it from hydrated minerals, which are plentiful in many areas of Mars. There are rocks like gypsum there that contain water, and if you crush, then bake those rocks, you can condense the water and collect it.
But spotting these minerals isn’t easy. To identify these hydrated minerals from orbit, researchers use a technique called reflectance spectroscopy. The instruments on spacecraft around Mars can detect sunlight as it is reflected from the surface, creating what are called spectra. Some wavelengths of the reflected light are absorbed by certain chemicals, allowing scientists to infer what the rocks below are made of. But this signal is only the average for the area being observed, and there can be multiple chemicals that absorb the same wavelengths. So deciphering the different signals can be a challenge.
“The way I like to explain it is: You have a cake that you’ve received,” said Do. “You have to try and figure out what ingredients it was made out of and how much of each ingredient contributed to making that cake. That’s essentially what we’re doing with these reflective signals – we’re trying to decompose them into their constituent parts to figure out what’s in there.” Making water safe Either way, once you have collected water by melting ice or by baking rocks, you need to process it. The water could be full of harmful impurities like heavy metals or salts like perchlorates, so it needs to be cleaned and desalinated before it can be used. In theory, we know how to do this from doing similar processing to water on Earth, but a challenge on Mars is that we don’t currently know what contaminants to expect.
Like many aspects of water management on Mars, the issue is not in the concept but in the execution. The technology for managing water on Earth is well understood, but there’s still much to do before we could build a system that would work on another planet.
“We know the fundamental principles for doing this,” Do said. “But we don’t fully understand the environmental conditions in which we would have to operate this machinery.” Everything from Mars’s thin atmosphere to its low gravity to its plentiful dust could change the way that machines operate. Not to mention that not only would a water system have to be small and light enough to be put on a rocket, it would also have to be extremely reliable — there are no repair shops on Mars.
This is where the next frontier of technological innovation will emerge. We have the knowledge right now of how to build a system for extracting and processing water, Do said, “but turning those principals into technology that works in a reliable fashion in the environment that we expect it to – that’s still open.” This article is part of Life On Mars – a 10-part series that explores the cutting-edge science and technology that will allow humans to occupy Mars Editors' Recommendations A cosmological commute: The tricky logistics of putting people on Mars Perfecting propulsion: How we’ll get humans to Mars Castles made of sand: How we’ll make habitats with Martian soil Artificial atmospheres: How we’ll build a base with breathable air on Mars Astroagriculture: How we’ll grow crops on Mars Features Life on Mars Web When NASA's Perseverance rover lands on Mars this week, it'll begin one of the most ambitious scientific endeavors imaginable: Looking for evidence that life once evolved on an alien world. Scientists are pretty certain that there's nothing living on Mars now, but they think there could have been at one point in the planet's history – and the rover is visiting a site called the Jezero Crater to learn more.
You may have heard that Perseverance is searching for signs of ancient life, and you might even have heard that it's heading to Jezero because that's a prime target in that search.
But why are scientists so interested in going to this one particular location? How do you guess where life might have evolved millions or billions of years ago, on an alien planet? What makes Jezero so special? We spoke to an expert in Mars geology, Katie Stack Morgan of NASA's Jet Propulsion Laboratory, to find out.
The hunt for life is on The headline draw of the Jezero Crater is the nearby delta deposit. Millions of years ago, Mars had plentiful liquid water on its surface, and the landscape was dotted with rivers and valleys. That meant that craters like Jezero filled up with water, and when water flowed into the crater from a river, it formed a delta comparable to the Mississippi Delta on Earth.
Deltas are incredible targets for searching for signs of life, both because they provide a comfortable environment for life to emerge and because they concentrate organic matter in a way that makes it easier to detect.
However, like basically every aspect of Mars exploration, it's not quite as simple as finding a structure that looks like a delta and hunting through that. That's because it's hard to tell the history of water on a planet that is now so dry.
Perseverance aims to land right in front of this delta to begin searching for signs of life.
Web Imagine: You've designed and built a billion-dollar rover to investigate another planet and launched it into space. It's made its way through the darkness on a seven-month journey to Mars, and it's finally arrived at its destination. Now, you just have to get it to the surface and you can start exploring.
The landing isn't going to be easy, though. Your craft will be traveling at over 12,000 miles per hour when it hits the martian atmosphere – and that atmosphere is so thin that parachutes work differently there than they do on Earth. Fluctuations in wind speeds and the amount of dust in the atmosphere are extremely hard to predict and can affect the landing. And you need to set down your 2,200-pound rover gently enough not to break anything.
Oh, and on top of all that, Mars is so far away that there's a communication delay of up to 20 minutes, so you can't control anything in real time. You have to program the craft to land itself, and once descent begins, you can't do anything to help it. You can only sit and watch as your precious spacecraft goes hurtling toward the planet's surface, in a period that engineers call the “seven minutes of terror”.
Overseeing this nail-biting horror is the real-life job of Gregorio Villar, a systems engineer on the the Entry, Descent, and Landing (EDL) team for the Perseverance rover at NASA's Jet Propulsion Laboratory (JPL). He told us about what it takes to land a rover on Mars.
The journey to Mars The rover travels to Mars safely cocooned in a spacecraft, in a segment of the mission called the cruise. During this journey, engineers keep watch on the spacecraft and make small adjustments to its flight path to ensure it's going in the right direction.
As the spacecraft approaches Mars, the engineers have their final opportunities to make any tweaks to its speed and direction. One of the most important tasks for the engineers before landing begins is for them to inform the spacecraft of its position relative to the planet as accurately as possible, so that the landing process can start in exactly the right place.
Web When you imagine the challenges of putting humans on Mars, you likely think of the big issues: Designing a rocket to carry astronauts through the solar system, building a habitat to keep them safe, and making sure they have water to drink and food to eat.
These are certainly significant challenges. But the most serious problem for human exploration of Mars may in fact come in the form of something tiny: Dust. Mars is one of the dustiest places in our solar system, subject to epic dust storms that cover the entire planet and can last for weeks at a time. And this dust can cause problems in everything from astronaut health to landing a vehicle on the planet's surface to the operation of life support systems.
To learn more about the big problems caused by these tiny particles, we spoke to two experts on Martian weather and human exploration of Mars.
What's the problem with a bit of dust? If it seems odd that something as small as dust could be a major challenge in space exploration, consider the many different ways this apparently minor inconvenience has affected missions in the past. Moondust turned out to be a major issue on the Apollo missions, as lunar dust is extremely sharp and abrasive. It stuck to everything due to static electricity and was so corrosive that it ate through spacesuits and containers.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
