Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Web Features Power plants on other planets: How we’ll generate electricity on Mars By Georgina Torbet Close Setting up a human presence on Mars will come with a huge range of challenges, many of which are linked to one essential requirement: Power. Whether it’s for creating oxygen , driving rovers, providing heat and light, or communications, future Mars residents will need a constant supply of electricity to keep them safe and keep the mission running.
Nuclear reactors in space The safety of nuclear power Energy from the sun The sunlight on Mars Picking the right power source for the mission There’s no power grid on Mars though, and current solutions can only take us so far. So what will the first off-planet power plant look like? We got in touch with two people working at the cutting edge of space power systems in two different agencies to find out.
This article is part of Life On Mars — a 10-part series that explores the cutting-edge science and technology that will allow humans to occupy Mars Cosmic comms: How the first humans on Mars will communicate with Earth Astropsychology: How to stay sane on Mars Artificial atmospheres: How we’ll build a base with breathable air on Mars Nuclear reactors in space NASA’s plans for the future of power generation include nuclear fission systems, in which uranium atoms are split inside a reactor to generate heat. Compared to the radioisotope systems (RTGs) that power rovers like Perseverance, fission systems can produce more power while still staying at a small size.
In March 2018, the agency’s Kilopower project demonstrated a fission experiment capable of producing 1 kilowatt of power, which could be used as the basis for future space reactors. The experiment, nicknamed KRUSTY after the Kilopower Reactor Using Stirling TechnologY, was powered by a core of uranium-235 which NASA described as “about the size of a paper towel roll.” This generated heat, which was then converted to electricity through a mechanism called a Stirling engine.
A future fission surface power system will be small and lightweight and could run for at least 10 years. That makes the concept ideal for future missions to the moon and, eventually, to Mars.
Last year, NASA, along with the Department of Energy, invited ideas from industry for a 10-kilowatt system. Four or five such units could power a Mars habitat with all that entails — like the production of oxygen for rocket propellant as well as meeting the needs of three to four astronauts, which is estimated to require a total of around 40 kilowatts.
NASA Glenn Research Dionne Hernandez-Lugo was the project manager for Kilopower and is now the deputy project manager for NASA’s fission surface power lunar technology demonstration, and she told Digital Trends that they intend to test the first unit on the moon within the next decade.
“The idea is to demonstrate the system first on the moon as part of the Artemis program,” she said. “Our project is looking at developing a 10-kilowatt system and doing the first demonstration on the moon. That would help us understand the system.” After this, any required design modifications could be made, and it could be used in future missions to Mars.
The plan for the first test on the moon is for the power unit to stay within the lunar lander. Leaving the unit in the lander “helps with easier operations of the system rather than taking the extra mass that would allow for removal,” she explained. That’s what her team is working on. But they are also hoping to see ideas from industry about how a removable system could work as well. “Right now, within our group, the idea is to leave the system within the lander,” she said. “But there’s a lot of innovations out there, and at this time we are seeking those innovations from industry to see other options that they would have.” NASA An internal NASA study estimated that each 10-kilowatt unit will be around six meters (19.6 feet) tall and over two meters (6.5 feet) wide, though the exact details would depend on the final design. A concept image (above) produced by NASA shows four such units linked together on the surface of Mars to provide power for a base there, so you can envision what a martian power plant might look like.
The safety of nuclear power One factor that people tend to be concerned with when it comes to using nuclear power on Earth is safety, and that applies to space missions too. The radioactive elements used in nuclear power reactors, like the uranium used in the Kilopower demonstration, give off radiation that is dangerous to humans and which can also cause problems with nearby electronic equipment.
To keep both people and electronics safe, fission power systems are surrounded by thick metal shielding which contains the radiation. Any new power system for a Mars mission would be put through extensive testing on Earth to make sure it was safe even under extreme conditions, such as operational testing, vacuum testing, and vibrational testing.
NASA Hernandez-Lugo pointed out that NASA has already launched over 20 missions in the past which used various types of nuclear power systems, “so NASA has expertise and background in launching nuclear power systems both to the moon and Mars.” There’s also a concern about the use of highly enriched uranium in power systems, which is what the Kilopower demonstration used. This material can also be used to make nuclear weapons, so some political leaders are worried that using it in space projects might encourage its proliferation on Earth.
To address these concerns, future surface fission systems could use low enriched uranium instead, which is commonly used in power reactors on Earth and is not weapons-grade. “Low enriched uranium designs are very attractive from the perspective of reduced regulation and compliance with recent national space nuclear policy directives,” Hernandez-Lugo wrote in a follow-up email. “The use of highly enriched uranium is still possible if the mission has a prevailing need.” The latest space policy directive , released by the White House in December last year, only allows for the use of highly-enriched uranium if it is approved by various government bodies and it can be shown to be the only way to complete a mission.
Energy from the sun Nuclear power isn’t the only option for power generation, though: One of the most common power options used for space missions right now is solar power. The European Space Agency (ESA) uses solar power for practically all of its missions, and its upcoming Mars rover, called the Rosalind Franklin, will be solar-powered as well.
“In space, efficiency is even more important than on ground and we are constantly pushing what is technically possible.” Leopold Summerer, Head of the Advanced Concepts Team at ESA which researchers emerging technologies for space missions, told Digital Trends in an email that solar power has an advantage over nuclear power in that it doesn’t need additional safety measures. He also pointed out that extensive use of solar power technology on Earth means constant developments which can be applied to space missions: “Solar power is a fast-evolving technology offering easy use, access and high maturity in addition to being fully renewable,” he said.
This fast rate of development means engineers are designing panels that can produce even more electricity from the same amount of sunlight, and Summerer expects that future solar systems will continue to get more efficient.
“In space, efficiency is even more important than on ground and we are constantly pushing what is technically possible,” Summerer said. Relatively small increases in the efficiency and mass of solar cells can make a big difference in the total cost of solar systems, particularly for smaller craft like satellites.
The Mars Society But like all technologies, there are limitations on the use of solar power. “It has the disadvantage of being dependent on an external source, the sun, and all the drawbacks that come with it,” Summerer said. In many situations, power from the sun is only intermittent. On a planet with a day and night cycle, batteries can be used to store excess power during the day and keep supplying it at night. But this adds another bulky element to the power system as well as an additional layer of complexity.
One futuristic solution to this problem being considered is the development of orbiting solar power plants , which could work in tandem with solar power panels on the surface to collect energy from the sun and beam it down to the surface wirelessly. ESA is currently seeking concepts to make this idea into a reality.
The sunlight on Mars When it comes to Mars specifically though, there are some challenges with using solar power. As it is further away from the sun than Earth is, less sunlight reaches the planet’s surface. That means explorers on Mars will have access to around half the solar irradiance that they would on Earth.
That doesn’t mean using solar power is impossible on Mars, just that missions have to be very careful with their power usage. NASA’s previous generation Mars rovers, Spirit and Opportunity, used solar power, and current orbiters like Mars Express and the Mars Orbiter Mission are solar-powered as well.
National Geographic However, there’s another problem on Mars: Dust storms.
 Mars has a complex weather system that occasionally results in massive global dust storms, temporarily blocking out much of the sun’s light and covering practically everything on the planet in a layer of dust – including solar panels. That’s what caused the incredibly long-lived Opportunity rover to eventually go dark, when a massive dust storm rolled across the planet in 2018.
Summerer thinks that by combining surface and orbital solar power plants, you probably could generate enough power for a human habitat. But he also acknowledged there’s value in combining solar power with other power sources like nuclear. “Solar power on the surface and eventually complemented from orbit can provide enough power for human habitats on Mars, but as demonstrated by the latest rovers, such as Perseverance which just landed, sometimes small nuclear power sources provide such a big competitive advantage that I would expect these to also play a role,” he wrote.
Picking the right power source for the mission Hernandez-Lugo concurred there is potential value in all sorts of power systems for a Mars mission, including solar, batteries, and nuclear. “The power system is going to depend on the specific mission,” she said. NASA’s Glenn Research Center, where she works, is the power development center for NASA and performs research into a wide variety of power options, including batteries, solar cells, radio isotope systems, fission power systems, and regenerative fuel cells. The key is to pick the right power source for the needs of the mission, based on the resources available.
There are distinct advantages to a nuclear system for human habitation missions. Firstly, when you want to design a power system for use both on the moon and on Mars, as NASA does, then you need to deal with the two-week-long periods of darkness on the moon.
“When you start thinking about how do you design a mission architecture that allows you to have constant power, then that’s when nuclear comes into play,” she said. “Because you need a reliable system that will give you continuous power during those night operations.” For Mars, continuous generation of power is important too, especially for the safety of astronauts living there. You definitely want a power system which will keep working in any weather conditions, even during a dust system, and nuclear power can provide that.
Hernandez-Lugo also pointed out that current NASA missions to Mars, like Mars 2020, use a combination of both solar power for the Ingenuity helicopter and nuclear power for the Perseverance rover, to fit the particular needs of the mission.
“At this time, within the agency, they’re looking at advancing all different power systems to have them available on missions such as the moon and Mars,” she said. “So there is a place for all power systems.” This article is part of Life On Mars — a 10-part series that explores the cutting-edge science and technology that will allow humans to occupy Mars Editors' Recommendations A cosmological commute: The tricky logistics of putting people on Mars Perfecting propulsion: How we’ll get humans to Mars Castles made of sand: How we’ll make habitats with Martian soil Harvesting hydration: How future settlers will create and collect water on Mars Astroagriculture: How we’ll grow crops on Mars Features Life on Mars Web Everyone’s familiar with the need for renewable energy sources as a replacement for the fossil fuels that are still in heavy circulation. But energy production is about more than just producing the energy you need right now.
Alongside fresh sources of energy production, innovative approaches to energy storage are also required -- to keep generating energy even when it’s nighttime (and the solar panels are therefore not working) or it’s not blowing a gale (and therefore powering the wind turbines). The most well-known energy storage system is, of course, a battery.
Web When NASA's Perseverance rover launches this summer, it will face one of the most ambitious missions in any space exploration project to date: To search for evidence of life on Mars. If there ever was life on Mars, there almost certainly isn't now -- so how do you go about hunting for evidence of something billions of years old on another planet? The answer involves the heaviest rover ever sent to another planet, a dried-up lake bed that is millions of years old, and a superpowered laser that vaporizes samples from 20 feet away. We spoke to two NASA Mars experts to find out more.
A brief history of Mars Desert ‘Rover’ Helps NASA Scientists Prepare for Mars Web In humanity's quest to explore Mars, getting there is only half of the battle. To keep astronauts safe while they explore the planet, we'll need sophisticated habitats, life support systems, and communications. We'll also need a new type of spacesuit.
To understand the challenges of building a suit that can withstand the Martian environment and to learn what steps engineers are already taking to address these challenges, we spoke to two NASA engineers about what it takes to make such a spacesuit.
Parts of a spacesuit Designing a spacesuit is no easy feat, explained Kristine Davis, a spacesuit engineer at NASA's Johnson Space Center who works on the pressure garment systems team for NASA's latest spacesuit design, the xEMU or Exploration Extravehicular Mobility Unit.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
