Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Web Features Astropsychology: How to stay sane on Mars By Meira Gebel Close A lot can go wrong in space — that we know for sure. We’ve seen it: Rockets explode on the launch pad. Communications cut out seemingly at random. Pressure valves fail. Oxygen runs out.
A highly selective process Simulations test more than knowledge Coping doesn’t necessarily mean meditation Space agencies, however, anticipate all these technical problems in advance. So as we plan to go to Mars and potentially settle there as a species, the most unpredictable element we have to prepare for is not the spacecraft we send but the humans aboard it.
NASA Astronauts face a number of hazards when they choose to be strapped to a rocket and shot off the face of the Earth: Radiation, lack of gravity, and the possibility of encountering and inhabiting an inhospitable environment. But over the past two decades, researchers have narrowed their attention on how isolation and confinement can affect an astronaut’s mental health and psychological performance.
“There are different kinds of isolation,” said Shannon Rupert, director at the Mars Desert Research Station , “some you can train for and some you can’t.” A cosmological commute: The tricky logistics of putting people on Mars Perfecting propulsion: How we’ll get humans to Mars Power plants on other planets: How we’ll generate electricity on Mars Unlike previous expeditions to the moon and to the International Space Station, space crews will face one-of-a-kind challenges during the journey to Mars.
Those aboard the ISS regularly speak with their families and have supplies sent to them every few weeks. That won’t be possible on Mars since there will be a 20-minute communication delay. And while it takes three days to get to the moon, it will take eight months to even land on Mars — this means astronauts traveling there will have to mentally prepare for being away from Earth for up to three years.
That’s a long time.
While there have been dozens of isolation experiments performed in hopes of determining what psychological challenges future Mars settlers might face, experts told Digital Trends that preparation is only the half of it.
This article is part of Life on Mars , a 10-part series that explores the cutting-edge science and technology that will allow humans to occupy Mars A highly selective process Not everyone can be an astronaut. And not everyone can go to Mars. NASA, the European Space Agency (ESA), and even private companies like SpaceX and Blue Origin have rigorous requirements for those who want to be sent to Mars. There are more than 7.8 billion people who live on Earth, and only 565 of those people have ever been to space.
“You have to find people who have that innate sense of being OK in that sort of extreme isolation.” Astronauts have to be physically fit and active; highly skilled in either math, science, or engineering; have 1,000 hours or more of piloting experience or similar professional experience; and have the mental stamina to perform at their peak in high-pressure situations for long durations under rigorous surveillance. Decision-making and productivity are also closely monitored for selection. This means being on top of your game 24 hours a day.
“As you can imagine, it’s hard to find highly capable, highly-accomplished people who are available to come and be an astronaut,” said Alexandra Whitmire, a deputy element scientist for NASA’s Human Research Program.
Whitmire said NASA looks at those who already have experience doing long-term expeditions, whether with the military or with other analog study programs in places like Antarctica.
Antarctica Analog Studies/NASA “We recognize in a future mission to Mars, we anticipate the crew is going to be a highly resilient, high-performing crew,” said Whitmire. “But there is also a definite acknowledgement that the Mars missions are going to be unprecedented and isolating.” Rupert, who runs the Mars Society’s research facility located in the Utah desert, which hosts eight-month-long field studies, believes that not only do future astronauts have to have incredible professional skills, but they must also have interpersonal skills in order to survive — and stay sane — while working and living with cabin mates.
“You have to find people who have that innate sense of being OK in that sort of extreme isolation,” she said. “The ones who aren’t afraid to take chances, but they’re not risk-takers, they’re okay with being bored, so they’re not high strung and have the ability to communicate. So you have to put all those qualities together in one person, and even after you’ve done all that analysis, you’ll never know if it’s going to work.” Simulations test more than knowledge When the U.S. sent Neil Armstrong, Michael Collins, and Edwin “Buzz” Aldrin to the moon in 1969, whether or not the three had chemistry was not a priority.
Today, however, it is.
How space crews get along can have an impact on whether or not their mission is successful.
NASA spends years selecting who it will send on space expeditions. And even after crew selection is finalized, candidates are closely watched for years after to see how well they can work together and if they have complementary traits.
Many of the simulated missions NASA performs within its Human Research Program monitor participants for six weeks at a time. The crew is tested in a way that simulates a space flight mission and are given a heavy workload, according to Whitmire. Researchers then control external variables, like manipulating the communication delay, assigning daily tasks, inducing sleep deprivation, and sometimes reducing the “habitable volume” and eliminating some of the participants’ privacy.
This is done because researchers want to adequately pinpoint confinement risks and potential physiological stressors. At the end, researchers evaluate the crew’s logs, journals, and surveys.
Bill Stafford/NASA But according to Sheryl Bishop , a social psychologist who has conducted behavioral research in extreme environments for more than 25 years, even those communications are “highly filtered.” “We don’t get close to the real emotions of the things that are going on in a person’s head — they keep that kind of information private,” said Bishop. “If you are one of those guys selected for a program like this, you want to be seen as competent and supremely fit for the job. Can you do that if you are also going to be like, ‘You know I really get down sometimes.’ No, no one is going to say that.” The most common emotions space crews express after simulations and Mars analogs (missions that closely replicate the conditions of the red planet in terms of terrain and duration) are depression, anxiety, isolation, and relief according to Rupert. The relief reflects the fact that participants are often glad to be out of such a small, tight space. Whitmire added that NASA has seen “dampening of positivity” in its participants over a period of time during analogs, too, but no serious cases of depression.
Crew conflict also comes up in simulations.
“There are a lot of big things to worry about, but then you also have to deal with the little things, the little irritations, like somebody who clips their fingernails at the table — the weird stuff,” Rupert said. “You have to be able to tolerate a lot and leave a lot of those feelings behind.” NASA/JSC Rupert has also found that if one person is having a hard time, that feeling is almost certainly going to leak out and affect the rest of the crew. If one person is being a downer and not asking for help, or is hiding that they are struggling at all, it could make others not want to be around them, further isolating them in an already severely isolated environment.
Researchers like Rupert, Bishop, and Whitmire have all found that extended bouts of isolation and confinement can have adverse health outcomes, like high blood pressure and insomnia, as well as the capability to alter the outcome of a mission.
So how does someone headed to Mars, with no possibility of simply turning around, cope? Coping doesn’t necessarily mean meditation Anyone crammed into a small space with other people for an extended period of time is going to go through a wide range of emotions. Dealing with those emotions is different for everybody.
Astronauts routinely have access to psychologists through mission control. No one is ever truly isolated during space missions because there is a buddy system, and crews can have up to nine people. But being open and honest about the feeling of isolation is the first step an astronaut can take to get the care they need on a journey to Mars.
To mitigate isolation, researchers have found routine, exercise, and meditation to be powerful tools. Space crews are encouraged to have game nights, watch movies together, and eat together. Another important factor to help lessen the feeling of stress is emphasizing downtime, taking a day off, and actually taking the day off.
NASA is also working with research that suggests greenery and plant life is important to one’s mental health. Taking care of plants can be a great sensory outlet for astronauts, said Whitmire, but what if a plant dies and can’t be revived? That has the ability to take a big toll, psychologically.
Rupert said one of the most beneficial coping mechanisms a crew can have collectively is the feeling of responsibility for one another.
“We’re taught to be independent and that we don’t need help, but when you find yourself on a long-term mission with just a few other people, you have to realize you are responsible for them, too,” she said. “So you also have the responsibility to ask for help. Almost all of the accidents that occur at the station are the result of someone not being honest.” But even if the first-ever crew members sent to Mars are honest about their feelings, meditate regularly, exercise, water their plants, and have meals together, something can still go awry.
“The Mars mission will be the most isolating experience in human history,” said Bishop. “We will be completely separated from all of our species, and we will be stuck. We can’t open the door and walk out. It doesn’t matter how desperate you get. You can’t go. And that’s what we have to be training our crews for, so that it never gets to that point.” This article is part of Life on Mars , a 10-part series that explores the cutting-edge science and technology that will allow humans to occupy Mars Editors' Recommendations SpaceX reaches 100K Starlink customers. Here’s how to sign up Cosmic comms: How the first humans on Mars will communicate with Earth Castles made of sand: How we’ll make habitats with Martian soil Artificial atmospheres: How we’ll build a base with breathable air on Mars Harvesting hydration: How future settlers will create and collect water on Mars Features Life on Mars Web If we ever hope to send people to live on Mars for an extended period of time, we'll need to keep them warm, safe, and well-fed. That last requirement poses a challenge on a mission that can carry only a limited amount of supplies. Even if canned beans weren't so heavy, no one wants to subsist off of them for a year-long mission.
The future of Mars habitation requires freshly grown fruits, vegetables, and grains. But how do you farm on a poisonous, deadly planet like Mars? To get an answer, we spoke to three Mars researchers from the fields of ecology, geology, and biochemistry.
This article is part of Life On Mars - a 10-part series that explores the cutting-edge science and technology that will allow humans to occupy Mars The basic essentials Plants are hardy things, but they have some essential requirements. To grow well, they need warmth, reasonable atmospheric pressure, and protection from harmful radiation. Those things would be a challenge to provide on Mars, except for the fact that humans need all of them as well.
Web When NASA's Perseverance rover lands on Mars this week, it'll begin one of the most ambitious scientific endeavors imaginable: Looking for evidence that life once evolved on an alien world. Scientists are pretty certain that there's nothing living on Mars now, but they think there could have been at one point in the planet's history – and the rover is visiting a site called the Jezero Crater to learn more.
You may have heard that Perseverance is searching for signs of ancient life, and you might even have heard that it's heading to Jezero because that's a prime target in that search.
But why are scientists so interested in going to this one particular location? How do you guess where life might have evolved millions or billions of years ago, on an alien planet? What makes Jezero so special? We spoke to an expert in Mars geology, Katie Stack Morgan of NASA's Jet Propulsion Laboratory, to find out.
The hunt for life is on The headline draw of the Jezero Crater is the nearby delta deposit. Millions of years ago, Mars had plentiful liquid water on its surface, and the landscape was dotted with rivers and valleys. That meant that craters like Jezero filled up with water, and when water flowed into the crater from a river, it formed a delta comparable to the Mississippi Delta on Earth.
Deltas are incredible targets for searching for signs of life, both because they provide a comfortable environment for life to emerge and because they concentrate organic matter in a way that makes it easier to detect.
However, like basically every aspect of Mars exploration, it's not quite as simple as finding a structure that looks like a delta and hunting through that. That's because it's hard to tell the history of water on a planet that is now so dry.
Perseverance aims to land right in front of this delta to begin searching for signs of life.
Web Imagine: You've designed and built a billion-dollar rover to investigate another planet and launched it into space. It's made its way through the darkness on a seven-month journey to Mars, and it's finally arrived at its destination. Now, you just have to get it to the surface and you can start exploring.
The landing isn't going to be easy, though. Your craft will be traveling at over 12,000 miles per hour when it hits the martian atmosphere – and that atmosphere is so thin that parachutes work differently there than they do on Earth. Fluctuations in wind speeds and the amount of dust in the atmosphere are extremely hard to predict and can affect the landing. And you need to set down your 2,200-pound rover gently enough not to break anything.
Oh, and on top of all that, Mars is so far away that there's a communication delay of up to 20 minutes, so you can't control anything in real time. You have to program the craft to land itself, and once descent begins, you can't do anything to help it. You can only sit and watch as your precious spacecraft goes hurtling toward the planet's surface, in a period that engineers call the “seven minutes of terror”.
Overseeing this nail-biting horror is the real-life job of Gregorio Villar, a systems engineer on the the Entry, Descent, and Landing (EDL) team for the Perseverance rover at NASA's Jet Propulsion Laboratory (JPL). He told us about what it takes to land a rover on Mars.
The journey to Mars The rover travels to Mars safely cocooned in a spacecraft, in a segment of the mission called the cruise. During this journey, engineers keep watch on the spacecraft and make small adjustments to its flight path to ensure it's going in the right direction.
As the spacecraft approaches Mars, the engineers have their final opportunities to make any tweaks to its speed and direction. One of the most important tasks for the engineers before landing begins is for them to inform the spacecraft of its position relative to the planet as accurately as possible, so that the landing process can start in exactly the right place.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
