Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Web Features A cosmological commute: The tricky logistics of putting people on Mars By Georgina Torbet Close For as long as humans have looked to the stars, we’ve dreamed of venturing out and visiting these distant places. And no place has been the target of more speculation than Mars. Now, we’re finally at a place where the dream of human beings setting foot on another planet could become a reality within our lifetimes.
Always 15 years away One magic spot in the cycle A longer mission than we’re used to Moon to Mars? A McMurdo station for the red planet Why go to Mars? What we learn from exploration We understand the technology we need to send humans to Mars, and we have the experience of sending robotic missions there as well. So when are we going to take that next giant leap and send a crewed mission to another planet for the first time? And what will it take to make that happen? We spoke to space expert Michael Hecht of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, veteran of the Jet Propulsion Laboratory and principal investigator of the MOXIE oxygen-making instrument on the Perseverance rover, to understand how we get from Earth to Mars — and how we’ll get boots on the ground for the first time.
NASA Always 15 years away With the recent flurry of interest in Mars exploration, it feels like we’re closer than ever before to actually getting people on the surface of the planet. And yet, it’s also a goal that constantly seems to be just out of reach.
Perfecting propulsion: How we’ll get humans to Mars Castles made of sand: How we’ll make habitats with Martian soil Artificial atmospheres: How we’ll build a base with breathable air on Mars We have the technology to make a crewed Mars mission happen now, and there is increasing interest in the topic.
After the Apollo missions of the 1960s and 1970s, many space enthusiasts assumed we would keep reaching and exploring, and move on to the next target for exploration: Mars. But public interest waned, support for Apollo dried up, and humans haven’t left Earth orbit since.
In the intervening decades, many have speculated that humans would set foot on Mars in only 15 years; that inevitably we’ll end up on the red planet soon. But a concrete, serious mission plan to put people on Mars has yet to materialize.
We have the technology to make a crewed Mars mission happen now, and there is increasing interest in the topic. But Hecht argues that the space community, and we as a species as a whole, have yet to make a serious financial and practical commitment to really make a mission happen. If we decided to do this, we could. But we need to make that commitment.
“We could have gone after Apollo,” Hecht said. “It would have been hard, and it would have been dangerous. But we can do it more safely now. We could have gone then, and we can go now.” One magic spot in the cycle When trying to picture what a crewed Mars mission might look like, there’s really only one practical way to get from here to there. Due to Mars’s orbit around the sun, a year there lasts just under two Earth years. Allowing for travel time, that means if you want to travel from Earth to Mars, there’s one period in a 26-month cycle when that journey is easiest: When the two planets are close and a rocket can be sent into what is called a Hohmann transfer orbit.
NASA “There’s one magic spot in that 26-month cycle,” Hecht explained. When a rocket launches from Earth at just the right time, it can intersect Mars’s orbit at the same time Mars does. “It’s like changing lanes on the highway.” Although it is possible to send craft to Mars using other orbits, it’s more difficult and dangerous, and a lot more expensive. So this 26-month cycle puts a practical limit on when we can send missions to Mars. It’s why Mars missions often launch around the same time, like the three spacecraft which launched in summer 2020 — NASA’s Perseverance rover, China’s Tianwen-1 mission, and UAE’s Hope mission.
And there’s an equivalent opportunity to come back in the other direction. This puts a pragmatic frame around what a crewed Mars mission will look like: A six- or seven-month journey from Earth to Mars, a bit over a year and a half on the surface, and another six or seven months coming back. That’s around a three-year mission in total.
A longer mission than we’re used to 3D Sculptor/Shutterstock That three-year mission length poses challenges, as it’s a longer mission than we’re used to sending people on. The missions to the moon lasted just a few days, and crew rotations on the International Space Station typically last between six months and one year.
Having people on the Martian surface for around 18 months gives them the opportunity to do some serious science and exploration, but it also carries much more risk. If there’s a problem on a Mars mission, it will be extremely difficult — if not impossible — to send help or supplies from Earth. If something goes wrong, the astronauts will be on their own.
“Nobody who is close to this is under any illusions that it is safe,” Hecht said. From the health threat of radiation exposure to risks during launch and landing to the problems which arise which you spend a year and a half in cramped conditions where you can’t go outside without a spacesuit: “It is a risky venture.” That’s why the focus of planning for a crewed mission is getting as much essential equipment as possible in place before anyone leaves Earth. To minimize risks to astronauts, you would send machines and equipment to the planet during the previous window in the 26-month cycle so it’s ready for the astronauts’ arrival. You need to make sure that the most basic needs of the astronauts, like oxygen and water, are already met.
Mars Oxygen In-Situ Resource Utilization Experiment (MOXIE) NASA Hecht’s MOXIE project is one example of the kind of technology that would enable a crewed Mars mission and reduce its risks. It is a way to produce oxygen from the abundant carbon dioxide in the Martian atmosphere, and a small version of the technology is currently inside the Perseverance rover and has had several successful runs already. A larger version of this technology could be sent to Mars along with a large oxygen tank, which could be filled with oxygen ready for the arrival of a Mars crew.
Moon to Mars? NASA NASA is planning to return to human space exploration with the upcoming Artemis missions to the moon, and the agency has consistently stated that one of the reasons to travel to the moon is to prepare for a crewed mission to Mars.
As former NASA Administrator Jim Bridenstine put it in a recent report, “NASA has always set its sights on human exploration of Mars. Now with humans returning to the Moon in four years to establish sustainable lunar exploration by the end of the decade, we are able to clearly see the Moon is a critical stepping stone to the red planet. Learning to live and work on the Moon will bring us closer and closer to our next giant leap as we search for life farther in the solar system.” However, exactly how analogous moon missions are to Mars missions is a matter of debate in the space community. Some argue that any human space exploration will help build knowledge, technologies, and procedures which will be beneficial in future endeavors — that was what Artemis astronaut Kjell Lindgren told Digital Trends when we interviewed him about the goals of the Artemis missions.
But others, like Hecht, are skeptical about how much you can learn about a Mars mission by going to the moon. “I struggle to find commonalities between the two, to be honest,” Hecht said. He pointed out differences between Mars and the moon in terms of the duration of the trips, the gravity and dust environments that astronauts will encounter, the presence or absence of atmosphere and how that affects landings, and the resources which are available. “I just don’t see it as a stepping stone.” NASA When it comes to Mars, Hecht said, “I don’t think you practice by going somewhere else. But I do understand the point of view of people who say that going anywhere — doesn’t matter if it’s an asteroid or the moon — is giving us experience in operating off Earth.” It’s not that people who are in favor of a mission to Mars are against visiting the moon — proponents of space exploration generally support more missions of all kinds — it’s rather that if we want to travel to Mars, we ought to be focusing on Mars and its unique challenges.
A McMurdo station for the red planet There’s plenty of talk about futuristic cities on Mars, and of sending hundreds or even thousands of people to live there long-term. But the far-fetched ideas are unlikely to happen any time soon. Instead, a more realistic vision would be a scientific research outpost, like the McMurdo base in Antarctica, with a handful of astronauts spending time there in 18-month shifts.
DigitalGlobe/ScapeWare3d via Getty Images It would be feasible to set up the first crewed mission to Mars within 20 to 25 years and to set up a research outpost there within the next decades.
Although it might be possible for such a mission to be planned and executed by a single country, there could be a more robust mission if different countries were involved. Currently, NASA cooperates closely with other space agencies like the European Space Agency (ESA) and the Japanese Space Agency (JAXA), but there’s a schism between the U.S. and one of the biggest players in space missions: China. Whether or not these different agencies would be willing to work together on a future Mars mission is still unclear.
“Hopefully, that first mission [to Mars] will involve not just NASA and not just the United States,” Hecht said, “Hopefully it will involve China too, so there won’t just be one failure point. It will keep going if one partner decides to go somewhere else.” It won’t only be government agencies involved in the project either. Companies like SpaceX, Blue Origin, and Boeing are all heavily involved in space missions, and you can expect them to be involved as subcontractors or even project managers in future Mars missions as well.
Why go to Mars? NASA/JPL-Caltech Whenever the subject of a crewed mission to Mars comes up, there are always people who object to the time and money such an undertaking would require and argue that this money would be better spent solving problems here on Earth. And undeniably, in the last year in particular, we’ve seen the cracks in the systems which are supposed to support the basics needs of many, like housing, education, and healthcare.
But, Hecht points out, we don’t only spend money on meeting the basic requirements of life. He described frantically trying to scrape together $1 million of funding to put a new piece of scientific equipment on Mars, and turning on the TV to see the ads that played during the Super Bowl. The cost of each 30-second spot could have paid for his piece of equipment several times over.
“We spend money on all sorts of silly things like Super Bowl ads,” he said. “And an awful lot of them have to do with our personal enjoyment of life and fulfillment — whether it’s sports, whether it’s libraries, whether it’s art, whether it’s music, whether it’s parks. We’d be a pretty poor excuse for a society if the only thing we would spend money on was food and shelter.” When it comes to space exploration, we have the opportunity to teach and inspire, and, perhaps most important of all, to understand more about the universe and our place within it. If we want to answer some of the biggest questions in life: Where we came from and whether we are alone in the universe — then we need to venture out beyond our planet and explore.
What we learn from exploration Many proponents of Mars exploration will argue that we should travel to Mars because there are specific things we can learn there about Earth. From studying some of the oldest rocks in the solar system to learn about the formation of Earth to studying the climate to get insights into the pressing issue of climate change, there are many ways that discoveries made on Mars could improve life here on Earth.
But for Hecht, trying to justify space missions in this way “flies in the face of history. In the sense that yes, there always have been those tangible benefits [to exploration]. But we haven’t been very good at predicting them. That’s what’s wonderful about it. You go and explore somewhere new and you learn something you never expected to learn.” We simply don’t know what we’ll discover from Mars until we go there. That has always been true of scientific discovery — from the accidental discoveries of penicillin or X-rays to the way that tech developed for the Apollo moon missions lead to better kidney dialysis machines and improved protective equipment for firefighters.
And beyond the pragmatic upsides to developing technologies and scientific knowledge, there’s a deeper impetus to explore. “The pursuit of knowledge is what makes us human,” Hecht said.
“We’ve been doing this since the first time we banged two rocks together. We pursue knowledge. And the exploration of new places — that’s why there isn’t a corner of the globe where human beings haven’t set foot, including the bottom of the ocean. That’s what we do.” Editors' Recommendations Cosmic comms: How the first humans on Mars will communicate with Earth Astropsychology: How to stay sane on Mars Power plants on other planets: How we’ll generate electricity on Mars Harvesting hydration: How future settlers will create and collect water on Mars Astroagriculture: How we’ll grow crops on Mars Features Life on Mars Web When NASA's Perseverance rover lands on Mars this week, it'll begin one of the most ambitious scientific endeavors imaginable: Looking for evidence that life once evolved on an alien world. Scientists are pretty certain that there's nothing living on Mars now, but they think there could have been at one point in the planet's history – and the rover is visiting a site called the Jezero Crater to learn more.
You may have heard that Perseverance is searching for signs of ancient life, and you might even have heard that it's heading to Jezero because that's a prime target in that search.
But why are scientists so interested in going to this one particular location? How do you guess where life might have evolved millions or billions of years ago, on an alien planet? What makes Jezero so special? We spoke to an expert in Mars geology, Katie Stack Morgan of NASA's Jet Propulsion Laboratory, to find out.
The hunt for life is on The headline draw of the Jezero Crater is the nearby delta deposit. Millions of years ago, Mars had plentiful liquid water on its surface, and the landscape was dotted with rivers and valleys. That meant that craters like Jezero filled up with water, and when water flowed into the crater from a river, it formed a delta comparable to the Mississippi Delta on Earth.
Deltas are incredible targets for searching for signs of life, both because they provide a comfortable environment for life to emerge and because they concentrate organic matter in a way that makes it easier to detect.
However, like basically every aspect of Mars exploration, it's not quite as simple as finding a structure that looks like a delta and hunting through that. That's because it's hard to tell the history of water on a planet that is now so dry.
Perseverance aims to land right in front of this delta to begin searching for signs of life.
Web Imagine: You've designed and built a billion-dollar rover to investigate another planet and launched it into space. It's made its way through the darkness on a seven-month journey to Mars, and it's finally arrived at its destination. Now, you just have to get it to the surface and you can start exploring.
The landing isn't going to be easy, though. Your craft will be traveling at over 12,000 miles per hour when it hits the martian atmosphere – and that atmosphere is so thin that parachutes work differently there than they do on Earth. Fluctuations in wind speeds and the amount of dust in the atmosphere are extremely hard to predict and can affect the landing. And you need to set down your 2,200-pound rover gently enough not to break anything.
Oh, and on top of all that, Mars is so far away that there's a communication delay of up to 20 minutes, so you can't control anything in real time. You have to program the craft to land itself, and once descent begins, you can't do anything to help it. You can only sit and watch as your precious spacecraft goes hurtling toward the planet's surface, in a period that engineers call the “seven minutes of terror”.
Overseeing this nail-biting horror is the real-life job of Gregorio Villar, a systems engineer on the the Entry, Descent, and Landing (EDL) team for the Perseverance rover at NASA's Jet Propulsion Laboratory (JPL). He told us about what it takes to land a rover on Mars.
The journey to Mars The rover travels to Mars safely cocooned in a spacecraft, in a segment of the mission called the cruise. During this journey, engineers keep watch on the spacecraft and make small adjustments to its flight path to ensure it's going in the right direction.
As the spacecraft approaches Mars, the engineers have their final opportunities to make any tweaks to its speed and direction. One of the most important tasks for the engineers before landing begins is for them to inform the spacecraft of its position relative to the planet as accurately as possible, so that the landing process can start in exactly the right place.
Web Mankind hasn't left Earth since the Apollo 17 mission in 1972. We have maintained a continuous presence on the International Space Station for two decades, which is its own incredible achievement, but we haven't gone beyond low Earth orbit and onto to the moon or further into our solar system for nearly 50 years.
But this year, we made big strides in returning to crewed space missions and exploring beyond our planet. Leaving the Earth is no easy feat, but we're getting there. Here's a quick recap of the small steps and giant leaps that mankind made in 2020, and that will help us usher in a new era of crewed space exploration in the near future.
8. India joins crewed space exploration efforts Currently, the only nations with active human spaceflight programs are Russia, the U.S., and China. But that looks set to change, with India ramping up its spaceflight program this year. The Indian Space Research Organisation (IRSO) had wanted to test its upcoming Gaganyaan crew vehicle as early as next year, with aims to carry its first astronauts on an orbital test flight in 2022. However, delays of one year are expected to this date due to the coronavirus pandemic.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
