Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Web Features Castles made of sand: How we’ll make habitats with Martian soil By Georgina Torbet Close When it comes to humans visiting Mars and needing somewhere to stay, NASA has an ambitious plan: To use raw materials found on the planet to 3D-print a habitat in situ. That was the subject of the 3D-Printed Habitat Challenge that the agency kicked off a few years ago, which invited teams of designers to pitch their best solution to the problem.
Using local resources How to 3D-print a habitat The challenges of building on Mars The role of architecture Going underground So how exactly do we transform a bunch of Mars dust into a comfy home? To find out, we spoke to two experts who participated in that competition — architect Trey Lane from the winning Team Zopherus and engineer Matthew Troemner from the Northwestern University team — about how to design and build a habitat on another planet.
This article is part of Life on Mars , a 10-part series that explores the cutting-edge science and technology that will allow humans to occupy Mars.
Perfecting propulsion: How we’ll get humans to Mars Power plants on other planets: How we’ll generate electricity on Mars Harvesting hydration: How future settlers will create and collect water on Mars Using local resources Team Zopherus/NASA When planning a habitat for Mars , the biggest limitation is how much material you can bring from Earth. Every extra gram of mass loaded onto a rocket has a significant cost in terms of fuel, so it’s just not feasible to bring along a building’s worth of construction materials. That’s why the first habitats will need to be built using raw materials that are available locally on Mars.
It’s certainly a different way to approach construction, as Trey Lane, architect from the competition-winning Team Zopherus, told us.
“From an architect’s point of view, there’s a certain amount of freedom that’s opened up when you’re 3D printing.” In his early research, Lane didn’t find much in the way of large-scale 3D printing projects using local materials, so he turned to an unexpected source for inspiration: Insects. “We started looking at wasps and spiders and beetles,” he said. “For hundreds of millions of years, they’ve been doing essentially 3D printing to create habitats.” Insects go out into the environment, find resources, process them into usable material, and construct the most practical habitat to meet their needs — just like what Lane wanted to do. “We found, honestly, that insects are better models for how to construct a 3D-printed, autonomous, local resource utilization habitat than humans are.” His team envisioned a habitat that included rovers that would go out into the environment and collect materials, then bring them back for further construction. “In a lot of ways, it’s like a wasp that goes and chews up a little bit of local resources and turns that into a papier-mache and builds its nest out of that.” Northwestern University There are advantages to applying this approach to construction, whether on Mars or on Earth. “The fact that you’re using local resources makes a huge difference for space missions,” he said. Instead of relying on long supply chains, you can be much more efficient in terms of materials and energy. Plus, the 3D printing approach is safer than traditional construction. “Construction is a risk-prone industry … So if you can do certain aspects of that autonomously, you have a safety benefit as well.” It can also be faster and cheaper to 3D-print, and there’s a degree of design freedom it enables. “From an architect’s point of view, there’s a certain amount of freedom that’s opened up when you’re 3D printing,” he said. You don’t have to rely on mass-produced materials like two-by-fours, which tend to be flat and straight, so you can design more complex shapes. “It frees you up to create a design that is custom-fit for the solution.” How to 3D-print a habitat When you think of 3D printing, you likely think of a desktop machine for printing items a few inches wide. When it comes to infrastructure-scale 3D printing, you need much larger hardware, but it’s a conceptually similar process — “in that you’d use similar software, you’d use similar movement techniques,” as Matthew Troemner, Ph.D. candidate at Northwestern University and leader of the university’s Mars habitat team, explained.
The difference is in the way material is deposited. Desktop 3D printers use a fused deposition method, “which is like a melted plastic string, essentially,” Troemner said. And while it is possible to scale this up, for printing on Mars, Troemner’s team wanted to use a different type of material called marscrete, or Mars concrete. “We’re pre-mixing material, creating a kind of paste, and then extruding it” before allowing it to cure or harden, he explained.
Joel Wintermantle/Northwestern University Marscrete is made by mixing Martian regolith — the dusty soil-like substance that covers the planet’s surface — with sulfur. Sulfur concrete has been used on Earth for decades and is strong and resistant to wear, which makes it ideal for building on Mars. Once it’s mixed, it can be laid down into shapes to form a habitat.
“For Mars or space applications, you’d have some kind of arm that moves and deposits material,” he said. On Earth, arm-style mechanisms are less popular than gantry-style mechanisms for large-scale printing because they can only print at a limited size — essentially, the reach of the arm. But the more complex the printing hardware, the more things that can go wrong. There’s a value in keeping things as simple as possible when building on another planet.
Northwestern University Troemner’s team proposed using an inflatable pressure vessel — essentially, a giant, strong balloon — which would be filled with air to form a dome shape, with an arm mechanism used to print marscrete on top of that. The pressure vessel keeps air in and radiation out, and the marscrete makes the structure strong and durable.
The challenges of building on Mars Mars is inhospitable to both humans and buildings. For a start, there are the temperature swings on the planet, with temperatures around the equator ranging from a high of 70 degrees Fahrenheit (21 degrees Celsius) during the day to minus 100 degrees Fahrenheit (minus 73 Celsius) at night. That puts a lot of stress on building materials.
“We wanted to have structures that could expand and contract independently of one another,” Troemner said, to allow for expansion and contraction over Mars’s very cold nights and relatively warm days. And the structures need to be strong enough to withstand the buildup of dust from the planet’s frequent dust storms.
 “If you do have a pile of sand on half your structure, you have an unbalanced loading condition, what is that going to do?” he explained. Dust storms can also affect construction, meaning there is a need to allow for downtime.
Previous Next 1 3 Northwestern University Northwestern University Northwestern University That’s why Troemner’s team came up with the idea of domes. “Domes are a good shape for the thermal expansion and also the sand dune buildup,” he said, and they distribute loads very well. Builders are actually given a little help by the reduced gravity on Mars as well, “so you need fewer structural elements, you need a lighter piece of equipment.” One big issue is how to protect Martian astronauts from dangerous radiation. “Martian regolith isn’t really that excellent at shielding from the radiation you’d experience on the surface,” Matthew said. The dome design would have between one and three feet of material between people inside the habitat and the exterior environment, but that wouldn’t be enough to protect astronauts inside.
Adding sulfur to the regolith to make marscrete helps, but the team also added polyethylene fibers to the mix, which would add to the shielding effect. For complete shielding, the interior inflated structure would have more polyethylene too. This polyethylene could be cannibalized from the lining of the uncrewed spacecraft that would carry the first wave of supplies to Mars.
The role of architecture Designing a habitat isn’t only about engineering challenges though. It’s also about creating a space in which people can live and work comfortably for a long period of time, potentially while under a lot of stress or experiencing profound isolation.
Team Zopherus’ habitat was divided into three modules: A laboratory for science operations, a communal unit, and a crew unit for needs like sanitation and sleeping quarters, with the possibility that more units could be added based on mission needs.
Previous Next 1 2 Team Zopherus/NASA Team Zopherus/NASA They wanted the space to support both the practical needs and the psychological needs of astronauts staying there, which was reflected in how they designed the communal unit. “We really oriented that space around a large opening on the upper level,” he said. A large window allows astronauts to look out onto the surface of Mars while staying safe and comfortable inside. “We wanted to maximize the astronauts’ ability to see their surroundings and connect with it.” That’s important for completing tasks like, for example, using a mechanical arm to move things around outside. But there’s a significant psychological benefit as well. “If you’re cooped up in about a thousand square feet of space for a year on a planet that wants to kill you everywhere except for right where you live, feeling like you’re not in a can is really beneficial,” he said.
Designing to benefit astronauts psychologically isn’t about making a building attractive for the sake of it, but about finding the best solution to a design problem.
The team also added the hydroponic garden to this space both so that plants can get light and so that astronauts walking below would enjoy the psychological break of feeling like they were walking through a wooded space. For Lane, balancing this intersection of practical and psychological needs is a key job of an architect. “Architects interface between the needs of humans and the physical environment,” he said. “The physical environment that someone is in affects them psychologically and also operationally.” The way he thought about it was not in terms of separate mission needs and psychological needs. Instead, he sees those as interlinked. “Those psychological needs are actually practical needs when you’re dealing with a human,” he said. “Because the psychology of your astronauts directly affects their performance on the mission.” Team Zopherus/NASA Designing to benefit astronauts psychologically isn’t about making a building attractive for the sake of it, but about finding the best solution to a design problem. He pointed out the elegance and beauty in many aspects of space engineering. “There’s really something beautiful about design that fits the problem well,” he said, similar to the inherent beauty in many organic shapes. “Following the pragmatic constraints of the design problem, and taking into consideration occupant health and wellness and psychology results in something that is probably going to be more aesthetically pleasing design.” “You can go too far in making something pretty,” he said. “But making it work well for the person who’s going to be inhabiting it, for me, is a very practical consideration.” Going underground Both experts agreed that the future of Mars habitat design had many possibilities, including potentially moving below the surface. Constructing an underground base has many advantages, like keeping people safe from radiation and dust storms. But it has its challenges too.
When it comes to underground construction, “There’s still so many unknowns,” Troemner said. There’s much we don’t know about the composition of the Mars subsurface and how to construct in that environment. “At least for a first step, if we’re talking about the near future, something on the surface makes more sense because there aren’t those same levels of unknowns as there would be when digging down.” Once we’ve been on Mars for a while though, that might change. “Long term, after you’ve created a first few initial structures, you’ve had more rovers on the surface, maybe you’ve had astronauts on the surface, then maybe an underground base is the way to go in the future,” he said.
Lane agreed. He thought the first mission to Mars might involve people staying in “stuff on the surface which mostly came from Earth,” like the Apollo missions to the moon. But for more people staying for longer periods of time, you need more permanent infrastructure. “At that point, you start going underground or 3D-printing your habitats,” he said.
Eventually, Lane envisioned a wide variety of habitats designed and built by different space agencies or companies. “We’re going to see more variety in our habitats that we’re creating, because our needs are going to be more varied, and we’re going to need to accommodate more scale,” he said. From that variety, we’ll learn more about what the best way to live on another planet is, which will help us build even better habitats in the future. “Which is something that I’m really excited about, in the next decades of humans venturing out onto the moon and Mars.” This article is part of Life on Mars , a 10-part series that explores the cutting-edge science and technology that will allow humans to occupy Mars.
Editors' Recommendations Cosmic comms: How the first humans on Mars will communicate with Earth Astropsychology: How to stay sane on Mars Artificial atmospheres: How we’ll build a base with breathable air on Mars Astroagriculture: How we’ll grow crops on Mars Martian dust is a big problem for astronauts. Here’s how NASA fights it Features Life on Mars Computing Email is a powerful tool in the modern world. It’s used not only for professional correspondence but also for a variety of other purposes, including messages from your school or university, keeping in touch with distant friends or family, sending digital files, or just generally keeping track of your online accounts and purchases. But the ease of sending email, and the fact that many people have more than one email address, means your inbox(es) can quickly fill with spam.
While you can unsubscribe from mailing lists through Google, you might still receive unwanted emails. Gmail users who want to shut out this noise can do so with just a few clicks. Here’s how to block an email address in Gmail.
Web We've seen many Black Friday deals start early so far this year but now it's time for one of the big guns -- Best Buy. Its Black Friday sale has started already, even though it's still only October. To be able to buy from it, you need to be a My Best Buy Plus or My Best Buy Total member to enjoy the benefits. Make sure to sign up for that and you can easily take advantage of the many deals going on right now. There are thousands of options out there so hit the button below to see for yourself. However, if you want some guidance towards the best deals, read on while we take you through some highlights.
What to shop for in the Best Buy Black Friday sale We all know that Black Friday laptop deals tend to be pretty special. At Best Buy, one highlight is being able to buy the Computing In digital imaging, two image formats prevail above all else: JPEG (or JPG) and PNG.
At first glance, a single image shown in both formats might seem identical, but if you look closely enough and dig into the data, there is quite a difference between them. One format isn't always better than the other, as each is designed to be used in specific circumstances based on your needs for image quality, file size, and more. Here's what you need to know about both formats to make the most of their strengths and weaknesses.
What is the JPEG format? Short for Joint Photographic Experts Group -- the team that developed the format -- JPEG has become the standard compressed format in digital photography and online image sharing due to its careful balance of file size and image quality.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
