Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending in Computing: Best Dell Laptops ChatGPT Best Monitors Asus ROG Azoth Review How to delete a page in Word in 3 easy steps RTX 4080 vs RTX 4070 Ti Best Mac Apps AMD vs Intel Recall an Email in Outlook Home Computing Guides Here’s how to quickly and easily convert a PDF to Excel By Jon Martindale Close Just because your co-worker sent you a PDF file instead of the Excel document you wanted doesn't mean you're actually stuck with it. In this guide, we'll teach you how to convert a PDF into an Excel document using a few quick and easy steps. We'll even teach you a few different ways to do it.
Using PDFgear to convert PDFs to Excel documents Using a free web application If you don't want to go to the trouble of converting the PDF (whether password-protected or not ) and would rather just edit it as is, we have a guide to the best PDF editors , too.
Difficulty Duration What You Need A free file conversion desktop app like PDFgear PDFtoExcel.com Using PDFgear to convert PDFs to Excel documents PDFgear is a free to download and use PDF reader and editing app. It has a very simple user interface and it's our preferred method for converting PDFs to Excel documents.
PDFgear is available to use on Windows, macOS, and iOS.
Note: The following instructions only show how to use the desktop app. These instructions were written based on the Windows version of PDFgear.
Step 1: Go to the PDFgear website and then download and install the desktop app version compatible with your device.
Step 2: Open the PDFgear app on your PC. Then select the Convert from PDF tab.
screenshot/Anita George / Digital Trends How to calibrate your monitor to make it better for free How to get Photoshop for free Here’s how to combine PDF files the easy way Step 3: Select the PDF to Excel button. On the PDF to Excel screen that appears, choose Add file.
Choose the PDF file you want to convert, then select Open.
screenshot/Anita George / Digital Trends Step 4: Now, select the big red Convert button.
Step 5: Once the conversion is complete, the file location of your newly converted file will appear on your screen. From here, you can access your new Excel file.
Note: The formatting of your new Excel file may be a little off, so you may need to edit the spreadsheet until it looks the way you want.
Using a free web application We get it, PDFgear might not work for everyone. There are many reasons that you may be unable to install such applications on your system, or maybe you would simply prefer that a remote server handle the brunt of the work for you. That’s OK — there are other methods you can use to convert those files.
You always have the option to convert a PDF to an Excel document online instead. Although there are a number of online converters to choose from, we have a favorite. We strongly recommend PDFtoExcel.com because it’s free, has a clean and user-friendly interface, and does an excellent job quickly.
We recommend caution if you use PDFtoExcel.com. While the company has confirmed it promptly deletes all data received within six hours after upload and doesn’t view your files, it’s better to exert some caution where your privacy rights are concerned.
If you are converting essential or private data, it’s best to use a local conversion method, as this is the safest protocol.
Local conversion methods are best for converting personal, sensitive, or otherwise private information, as they ensure the most protection.
With PDFtoExcel.com, you are in good hands because the efficient conversion method is an easy three-step process that we have laid out below.
Step 1: Open a browser window and go to PDFtoExcel.com.
Step 2: Click the Upload button and select the PDF you want to convert. Alternatively, you can drag and drop it onto the designated area.
screenshot Step 3: If you are working with an extensive PDF and/or data set, uploading the file and converting it may take a little while, but overall, the process should be swift. Once complete, click the Free download button.
After the final step, your PDF file will be in an Excel format that you can download or edit. This document may require tweaking or formatting.
screenshot Editors' Recommendations 4 easy ways to take a screenshot on a Windows PC How to use a blue light filter on your PC or Mac How to block an email address in Gmail How to set up multiple monitors for PC gaming Here’s how to share your screen on Discord Business How-To Guides Microsoft Computing If you’re on a computer and you get a text on your phone, wouldn’t it be great if you could reply without picking it up? Yes, it would, and there are great apps and services that enable just that ability.
Whether you use Apple or Android, you can send and receive text messages on a Mac, Windows PC, or Chromebook. Keep reading to determine which option works best for you.
Computing If you're a YouTube fan like us, you might want to know what the most viewed YouTube videos are, and how to download YouTube videos.
Downloading a video from YouTube doesn’t seem like a big deal at first glance, but it comes with ethical concerns to consider, depending on the original post’s intent. And it's something Google definitely doesn't want you doing — it's a clear violation of YouTube's Terms of Service, but it's even more important to keep the original content creators in mind.
Computing Wi-Fi problems can strike anyone at any time, no matter how much networking experience you may have. But if you've not come across a particular Wi-Fi issue before, there's no need to worry if you don't know how to fix it. All you need are the right tools and a few tips, and you'll be able to solve your Wi-Fi problem in no time.
Whether you're experiencing problems with slow internet, Wi-Fi signal dropping, or you just can't connect to Wi-Fi at all, here are some of the quickest and easiest fixes you can try. We'll also cover some advanced advice on more troubling issues that would definitely result in your Wi-Fi not working at all, or at slower speeds.
Slow or no Wi-Fi or internet access in certain rooms Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
