Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending in Computing: Best Dell Laptops ChatGPT Best Monitors Asus ROG Azoth Review How to delete a page in Word in 3 easy steps RTX 4080 vs RTX 4070 Ti Best Mac Apps AMD vs Intel Recall an Email in Outlook Home Computing News Qualcomm says Oryon chips are faster than Macs’, but we’ve been here before By Jacob Roach Close Andrew Martonik / Digital Trends Qualcomm wants to “revolutionize” PCs … again. At its annual Snapdragon Summit, the company announced the first processor under its Snapdragon X branding for PC. The Snapdragon X Elite is a system-on-a-chip (SoC) designed around Qualcomm’s Oryon CPU and Adrendo GPU that comes with a dedicated neural processing unit (NPU).
The CPU includes 12 high-performance cores nestled into three clusters. These cores run at 3.8GHz, according to Qualcomm, but two of them can boost up to 4.25GHz at a time. In addition to the CPU and GPU, the X Elite SoC sports LPDDR5x memory on a memory interface that can deliver 136GB/s of bandwidth.
Qualcomm The chip is built on a 4nm process node, and Qualcomm says it provides twice the CPU performance of the 12-core Intel Core i7-1360P at peak power, and the same performance while using 68% less power. Compared to the more powerful Core i7-13800H, Qualcomm says the Snapdragon X Elite delivers 60% higher performance at peak power and 65% less power at the same performance level.
Comparisons to Windows machines are interesting, but it’s the Apple comparison that matters. Qualcomm says the Snapdragon X Elite achieves 50% higher multi-threaded performance than Apple’s M2 inside the MacBook Pro 13 in Geekbench 6. It’s worth pointing out that Geekbench 6.2, which Qualcomm tested, has both a Mac version and a native Windows on ARM version.
Andrew Martonik / Digital Trends That has been the biggest hurdle for widespread adoption of ARM chips, like the ones Qualcomm produces, in PCs. The chips themselves haven’t traditionally been showstoppers in terms of performance. The previous Snapdragon 8cx Gen 3 showed significant performance gaps between Intel’s U-series processors and Apple’s M2. With the Snapdragon X Elite, it seems Qualcomm is finally tackling that issue, but app support is another problem entirely.
Qualcomm says its new chips are 4.5 times faster at AI than rivals Qualcomm’s rumored 12-core chip finally sounds like a true ARM revolution for PCs Qualcomm says it’s ready to compete with Apple’s M1 chips Over the past few years, there has been a rising tide of apps with native Windows on ARM versions, helping the chips keep pace with their x86 counterparts. One of the biggest holdouts has been Google Chrome, which, like other apps without native ARM versions, are run through emulation with much lower performance.
Luke Larsen / Digital Trends Qualcomm chips inside PCs provide some significant advantages, though. For the Snapdragon X Elite, Qualcomm says the chipset can provide multiple days of battery life. Apple’s M-series chips, which are also based on ARM designs, demonstrate the efficiency advantages of this instruction set. Even Windows laptops with stellar battery life are in a clear league below Apple’s M-series MacBooks.
In addition, the X Elite sports 5G connectivity and support for Wi-Fi 7 , along with a dedicated NPU that Qualcomm says is capable of running Large Language Models (LLM) up to 13 billion parameters on device. This NPU has four-and-a-half times the AI processing power of competitors, according to Qualcomm.
With growing app support, a more powerful chipset, and some clear advantages in battery life and connectivity, it may finally be time for Windows on ARM to shine with the Snapdragon X Elite. It’s been more than a decade of trying to get Windows on ARM to hit the mainstream, though, and it doesn’t seem like that battle is quite over yet.
Holdout apps make the switch tough for consumers, and although there are some advantages in battery life and connectivity, you’ll find a much greater abundance of Intel- and AMD-based laptops than those built with a Qualcomm chip. At the very least, it seems Qualcomm has an SoC that can compete in terms of raw performance now. We just have to wait, once again, to see if it finally catches on. Qualcomm says the first PCs with the Snapdragon X Elite will be available starting in mid-2024.
Editors' Recommendations Hear me out — Windows on ARM could actually work this time AR glasses will have a dedicated Qualcomm chip in 2023 Qualcomm takes on the Apple M1 with new Snapdragon 8cx Gen 3 for PCs Samsung launches the Galaxy Book Go with an ARM chip inside for just $350 MSI’s Creator Z16 is finally the MacBook Pro competitor we’ve been waiting for Microsoft Microsoft Windows Qualcomm Qualcomm Snapdragon Summit Tech News Computing Parallels Desktop for Mac, the popular program used to run virtualized versions of Windows 10 on Apple's Mac devices, has gotten even better. Version 16.5 of the app now lets Mac users enjoy a seamless Windows 10 on ARM experience on Apple's newest Macs featuring the M1 silicon.
According to Parallels, with version 16.5, Mac users can enjoy improved performance compared to when running Windows through the program on Intel-based macs. When running Windows 10 on ARM Insider Preview virtually through Parallels 16.5, users with M1 Macs can enjoy 2.5 times less energy consumption and 60% better DirectX 11 performance.
More specifically, Parallels says running Windows 10 on ARM on Parallels Desktop 16.5 with an M1 Mac performs up to 30% better than a Windows 10 VM running on an Intel-based MacBook Pro with Intel Core i9 processor. That's because the Parallels team worked to reengineer the app under the hood for the M1 silicon. Over 100,000 M1 Mac users also tested the Technical Preview of Parallels Desktop 16.5 for M1 Mac, according to the company.
Computing A MacBook Pro with a larger display and thinner bezels may be coming out sooner than we think.
According to 9to5Mac, Apple may be releasing a 16-inch MacBook Pro that features thinner bezels. Referencing a report published by Digitimes on Monday, July 29, 9to5Mac says that Apple will have Quanta produce the forthcoming MacBook Pro and that it is expected to be released in September of this year. However, it is worth noting that while the display is expected to reach 16 inches, the laptop itself will most likely still be in a 15-inch case. The narrow bezels are expected to help facilitate the larger 16-inch screen size. The display is also expected to include a 3,072 x 1,920 resolution.
Computing Printers are complicated machines featuring a mix of plastics, metals, electronics, and components, some of which are potentially flagged as hazardous waste. In 2023, it's more important than ever to be kind to the planet, and there are several environmentally safe ways to dispose of a printer.
Even the best printers in the world can reach the end of their life after several years if ink or toner is no longer available. A well-loved printer can suffer from accumulated wear and tear or damage from a catastrophic power surge that's too expensive to repair.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
