Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending in Computing: Best Dell Laptops ChatGPT Best Monitors Asus ROG Azoth Review How to delete a page in Word in 3 easy steps RTX 4080 vs RTX 4070 Ti Best Mac Apps AMD vs Intel Recall an Email in Outlook Home Computing Products Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? The best thin and light gaming laptops 2023 By Mark Coppock Close Most gaming laptops are large, ostentatiously styled with massive vents and a fighter jet-like aesthetic — and they're heavy. They're not meant to be carried around everywhere like regular laptops, but rather from place to place for gaming sessions. Not everyone wants a massive laptop for their gaming needs, though, and that's where a new breed of thin and light gaming laptops comes into play.
The Lenovo Legion Slim 5 tops this list. It's not only a great gaming laptop, but it's one of the best laptops , period. It's not the only excellent thin and light laptop worth considering, though. These are our favorites.
Lenovo Lenovo Legion Slim 5 14.5-inch The best slim and light gaming laptop Lightweight design Impressive performance Great looking OLED display Fast refresh rate for responsive gaming Lacks Thunderbolt 4 Why you should buy this : It's an ultra portable, fast gaming machine with loads of great features.
Who's it for : Gamers of any kind will love this laptop.
Why we chose the Lenovo Legion 5 : There's very little to dislike about the Lenovo Legion 5. It's pretty lightweight at just 3.6 pounds, and yet it packs an AMD Ryzen 7 CPU and Nvidia RTX 4060 GPU with high-TDP into its compact chassis. It's not the absolute lightest of the thin and light laptops on this list, but it's close to it, and despite that offers some of the best performance and great battery life.
The display is beautiful, with a 1800P OLED panel that is detailed, crisp, and incredibly rich. It has great contrast and color representation, helping esports and AAA games pop off the screen, and with its high-refresh rate, you'll enjoy fast and responsive gaming no matter what you play.
There's no Thunderbolt 4, which is a shame, but you do get USB-C 3.2 Gen 2x2 and USB-A 3.2 ports, headphone jack, HDMI and DisplayPort outputs, and a Wi-Fi 6e connection.
Jacob Roach / Digital Trends Razer Blade 14 (2023) A powerful gaming laptop for its size Fantastic gaming performance Relatively cool and quiet Solid IPS screen Great battery life and portability Bulky charger More expensive than the previous model Why you should buy this : It's a powerful laptop with a reasonable weight.
Who's it for : Anyone who wants maximum gaming power in a somewhat-portable package.
Why we chose the Razer Blade 14 : The Razer Blade 14 epitomizes a high-end gaming laptop, with a few nods to portability along the way. It's relatively thin and light at 4.1 pounds. It's also elegantly designed with its all-black aluminum chassis and just a single green Razer logo on the lid. You get per-key RGB backlighting, which gamers want, and that's the most apparent visible nod to this being a gaming laptop.
Inside, you'll find a blazing-fast eight-core, 16-thread AMD Ryzen 9 7940HS CPU that makes it a powerhouse for CPU-intensive games, and you can configure up to an Nvidia GeForce RTX 4070 GPU. Even the base RTX 3060 will let you play most games at 1440p and high settings. Razer designed the thermals to handle long-term gaming sessions while maintaining performance.
The Razer Blade 14 utilizes a 14-inch, 16:9, 1440p IPS display with up to a 240Hz refresh rate, providing both high resolution and a high refresh rate. There's arguably no better thin and light gaming machine available today.
Best Black Friday gaming laptop deals: Cheapest prices today Best Black Friday laptop deals: Get a new workhorse from $129 The best early Amazon Black Friday laptop deals available now Asus Asus ROG Zephyrus G14 A thin and light gaming laptop with a gamer's aesthetic Lightweight design Impressive gaming performance Great looking design Fast, detailed display Lacks high-end GPU options Why you should buy this : It's one of the best thin and light gaming laptops.
Who's it for : Anyone who wants a thin and light gaming laptop with a bit more gaming aesthetic.
Why we chose the Asus ROG Zephyrus G14 : The Asus ROG Zephyrus G14 is a truly thin and light gaming laptop, weighing just 3.6 pounds and packed full of the latest-generations of hardware, from graphics, to processors, and memory. It's just 0.73-inches thick, too, making it supremely portable, and with its long battery at over 10 hours of mixed use, this is a fantastic mobile gaming machine.
In this configuration it uses the AMD Ryzen 9 7940S processor, with eight cores and a boost clock over 5GHz. That makes it blazing fast at any tasks you throw at it. Paired with the Nvidia RTX 4060 it's more than up to the task of esports, indie, and AAA gaming – whatever your favorite game, it's ready to play it.
The Moonlight paint scheme looks pretty standout too, if you're bored of the standard black designs.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Asus ROG Flow X13 The best 13-inch gaming laptop Amazing portability Good performance for its size Comfortable keyboard and touchpad XG Mobile is a good option 120Hz refresh rate Mediocre battery life Screen could be brighter Expensive for performance Why you should buy this : It's the best 13-inch thin and light gaming laptop.
Who's it for : Anyone who wants the most portable gaming laptop but doesn't want to give up the power.
Why we chose the Asus ROG Flow X13 : There aren't many 13-inch gaming laptops – and for good reason. It's hard to pack gaming-level performance into such a tiny package. Razer did it with its Stealth 13, but that's been superseded by the Asus ROG Flow X13. Not only is the ROG Flow X13 thin at 0.62 inches and light at 2.87 pounds, it's also a 360-degree convertible with active pen support. It's useful for more than just playing games.
It's also surprisingly powerful, despite its age. With an AMD Ryzen 9 5900HS or 5980HS CPU and an Nvidia GeForce RTX 3050 Ti GPU. That's if you buy the configuration that's not bundled with the XG Mobile expansion dock. If you buy a bundle, you'll get an RTX 3050 inside the chassis and up to an RTX 3080 in the dock. That makes the ROG Flow X13 not just fast enough for modern titles at 1080p and medium graphics, but also upgradable to handle 4K gaming at higher graphical settings.
We also love that the display is in the taller 16:10 aspect ratio, which is unusual for gaming laptops. The ROG Flow X13 can be purchased with either a 13.4-inch IPS Full HD+ (1920 x 1200) panel at 120Hz or a UHD+ (3840 x 2400) screen at 60Hz. And all of that can fit most comfortably in your backpack.
Jacob Roach / Digital Trends Alienware x14 R2 Thinnest 14-inch gaming laptop Fantastic battery life Solid performance USB-C charging Comfortable keyboard Tiny trackpad Only one USB-A port Middling screen Why you should buy this : It's the thinnest 14-inch gaming laptop you can buy.
Who's it for : Anyone who wants a powerful, portable gaming machine.
Why we chose the Alienware X14 R2 : Powerful gaming laptops are rarely portable, but the Alienware X14 R2 is a gaming laptop that ticks those boxes in surprising fashion. Not only does it bring impressive performance to the table, with its Core i7 Intel 13th-generation CPU and Nvidia RTX 4060 graphics chip, but it has fast DDR5 memory, a terabyte of NVME SSD storage, and a beautiful, fast display. This is a gaming laptop with all the bells and whistles, and yet it's only 0.57-inches thick, and 4.22 pounds, making it easy to carry around all day.
This is a laptop that rivals Razer's Blade in build quality, performance, and looks, and does it far cheaper, too. It even has good battery life at up to 10 hours of mixes use. Sure, when you're gaming it'll only last a few hours on battery, and you won't get the best performance unless you plug it in, but still, that's impressive efficiency for a machine this powerful.
It also has a great keyboard (not so great a touchpad, but who cares, you're using a mouse anyway) and the screen looks great. What's not to love? Editors' Recommendations The best handheld gaming PCs you can buy Best Lenovo laptop Black Friday deals: Chromebooks, gaming laptops, and more The best Lenovo gaming laptop Black Friday deals right now Best Alienware gaming laptop Black Friday deals — save $800 Razer Black Friday deals: Save on gaming laptops, keyboards and more Best Products Laptops PC Gaming Computing Gamers who don't want this year's Black Friday deals to end without buying a powerful gaming laptop for much cheaper than usual should check out the offers that were launched by Razer. One of the most popular gaming brands, it doesn't disappoint with its high-performance and stylish machines. We've rounded up our top picks for Razer gaming laptop Black Friday deals below, including our absolute favorite, so don't waste any more time -- find the model that you want and proceed with the purchase, while the discounts are still online. If gaming isn't your sole focus, you'll find other powerful laptops in our list of the best Black Friday laptop deals.
Best Razer gaming laptop Black Friday deal The top-of-the-line performance provided by the Razer Blade 15 actually makes it a steal at its discounted price, as it's the only machine that you'll need for the next few years if you're looking forward to some upcoming PC games. Inside the gaming laptop are the 12th-generation Intel Core i7 processor, Nvidia GeForce RTX 3070 Ti graphics card, and 16GB of RAM, which are enough to run today's most popular titles at the highest settings. Its 15.6-inch screen with QHD resolution and a 240Hz refresh rate will give justice to all that power, and you'll be able to install several AAA games on its 1TB SSD that ships with Windows 11 Home. Originally $3,000, the Razer Blade 15 is down to $1,800 following a $1,200 discount from Razer for Black Friday.
Computing There's no need to wait for Black Friday deals because retailers like Dell have already rolled out some of their offers for the shopping holiday. Whether you're planning to buy a new laptop, monitor, or desktop computer, Dell surely has something that will fit your budget. We've rounded up the best Dell Black Friday deals that you can shop right now to help you decide quickly on your purchases, since you need to hurry to make sure that you're able to take advantage of the bargains. Like HP laptop Black Friday deals and Amazon Black Friday laptop deals, these discounts could end at any time. Any of these prices may return to normal at any moment, so act fast.
Top 3 Dell Black Friday deals Dell S2721QS 4K monitor -- $240, was $330 If you're looking for monitor deals to upgrade an outdated display, you should consider the Dell S2721QS 4K monitor. You'll be getting sharp details and vivid colors on its 27-inch screen with 4K Ultra HD resolution, and you'll also experience less stuttering and screen tearing with AMD's FreeSync technology. Your neck and eyes will stay comfortable with the help of the monitor's height-adjustable stand and Dell's ComfortView Plus that reduces harmful blue light emissions.
Computing HP has been around for quite a while now, and you're probably familiar with their lineups of desktops and Pavillion laptops, but that doesn't mean that they don't also make great gaming laptops as well. HP currently has two gaming-specific laptop brands, Omen and Victus, and they both have some great specifications. That said, if you can't find anything you like here, it is worth taking a look at these other best HP laptop Black Friday deals, our collection of the best gaming laptop deals in Best Buy’s Black Friday, and our general Black Friday laptop deals.
Best HP Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals (AMD) Much like other retailers, HP's lineup of AMD CPU gaming laptops is not as large. That said, they are generally more budget-friendly and power-efficient, and while the GPUs are on the lower end of the scale, these are great entry-to-mid-range gaming laptops for you to pick up.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
