Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending in Computing: Best Dell Laptops ChatGPT Best Monitors Asus ROG Azoth Review How to delete a page in Word in 3 easy steps RTX 4080 vs RTX 4070 Ti Best Mac Apps AMD vs Intel Recall an Email in Outlook Home Computing News MSI has some massive QD-OLED monitor news in the works By Jacob Roach Close MSI MSI is getting ahead of CES 2024 by revealing a few of its most anticipated products two months ahead of the showcase. The company is set to launch four QD-OLED gaming monitors in January, setting the tone for an event that should be packed with new monitor reveals.
For QD-OLED enthusiasts, the two most exciting announcements are a 32-inch 4K display with a 240Hz refresh rate and a 27-inch 1440p display with a 360Hz refresh rate. These sizes and resolutions mirror the QD-OLED monitors Alienware recently teased during TwitchCon, which we also expect to see at CES 2024.
MSI has provided more details on its take on these panels, though. The monitors will support up to 90 watts of USB-C power delivery, along with MSI Console Mode, which accounts for the resolution and refresh rate options on the Xbox Series X and PlayStation 5 , as well as MSI OLED Care 2.0, which the company says significantly reduces the risk of OLED burn-in.
MSI could be prepping next-gen OLED gaming monitors — and they look insane Samsung wants you to reserve the Odyssey OLED G9 — without knowing the price I love my OLED gaming monitor, but I feel like it’s gaslighting me We don’t have pricing on either display yet, but we should know the full details soon. A little over a month ago, a leaker revealed the details of MSI’s upcoming displays, suggesting they’ve been in the pipeline for a while.
The 4K model, in particular, is something gamers have been looking for throughout the past year. We’ve seen half a dozen new OLED monitors in 2023 but displays like the LG UltraGear OELD 27 are locked to 1440p. Between MSI, Alienware, and Dough, we now have three confirmed 4K QD-OLED monitors that are expected to launch in the next few months.
MSI MSI has two other QD-OLED displays, which it confirmed will launch on January 6, 2024. The first is a 34-inch ultrawide display with a 175Hz refresh rate and an 1800R curve. The MAG 341CQP QD-OLED looks like it’s using the same panel as the Alienware 34 QD-OLED based on the specs, along with more recent displays like the Samsung Odyssey OLED G8.
The MPG 491CQP QD-OLED is a bit more interesting. It’s a 49-inch monitor with a 32:9 aspect ratio and the same 1800R curve. It’s similar in size to Samsung’s recent Odyssey OLED G9 , but it’s locked to a 144Hz refresh rate. This is a monitor we saw on display during last year’s CES, but it looks like MSI needed to put the display on ice for a while.
Although MSI is the first to confirm it will show new QD-OLED displays at CES 2024, we expect the event to be packed with them. Alienware has already teased two displays it will have at the show, and Asus announced a trio of QD-OLED displays in August, which will likely be at the show, as well. We still haven’t seen anything from brands like LG, Samsung, and Corsair, but each will likely have QD-OLED monitors of their own to reveal.
Editors' Recommendations Alienware is playing coy with its two new QD-OLED monitors We’re finally getting a 4K OLED gaming monitor, and it’s coming soon Why new OLED gaming monitors still can’t beat the best from last year Samsung’s first QD-OLED gaming monitor might be dead on arrival Samsung Odyssey OLED 49 vs. Odyssey Neo G9 (2023) CES 2023 PC Gaming Tech News Computing At CES 2023, I had a chance to look at Samsung's upcoming Odyssey Neo G9. It's a monster gaming monitor, and you don't need to look further than the spec sheet to see that. Dual 4K resolution, a 240Hz refresh rate, and a 32:9 aspect ratio with a 57-inch screen? There's a lot to love.
And after seeing it, I was floored by the quality. It's an insane gaming monitor that looks fantastic, and I can't wait to use one for an extended period of time. But there's a big problem with the new Odyssey Neo G9, and it could be dead on arrival.
DisplayPort 2.1 Computing The past few years have seen a convergence between TVs and gaming monitors, and CES 2023 is starting to see the two display types diverge once again. After all, the LG OLED Flex is a TV that looks like a monitor while the Samsung Ark is a monitor that looks a lot like a TV. This year, we're starting to see the lines between TVs and monitors more clearly.
It's not as clean-cut. Some monitors look like TVs and vice versa, but it seems the world of gaming monitors is exploring more exotic form factors and connectivity standards, while TVs are driving toward higher refresh rates, better panel technologies, and larger sizes.
Exotic form factors Computing CES 2023 is where we see the displays that will define the best gaming monitors for the next year, and this year was no different. Samsung, LG, Asus -- everyone was out in full force with super high refresh rates, OLED, and more. Here are the best gaming monitors we've seen at CES 2023 so far.
Samsung Odyssey OLED 49 Last year's Samsung Odyssey Neo G9 is burned in the collective mind of the gaming community as the first and only 32:9 gaming monitor. Samsung took that design and ran with it. As a result, we have the Odyssey OLED 49. It's basically the same as last years' Odyssey Neo G9 -- 32:9 aspect ratio, 49 inches, and with a 240Hz refresh rate. The critical change this time around is OLED.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
