Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending in Computing: Best Dell Laptops ChatGPT Best Monitors Asus ROG Azoth Review How to delete a page in Word in 3 easy steps RTX 4080 vs RTX 4070 Ti Best Mac Apps AMD vs Intel Recall an Email in Outlook Home Computing News AMD’s FSR 3 will finally get a chance to shine in Starfield By Jacob Roach Close Bethesda Game Studios Starfield was mired in controversy on PC both prior to launching and after the game was finally released, but developer Bethesda seems committed to patching it into a better state. The studio has confirmed that the game will receive an update for both Nvidia’s Deep Learning Super Sampling 3 (DLSS 3) and AMD’s FidelityFX Super Resolution 3 (FSR 3 ).
We’ve known for weeks that DLSS 3 was coming to the game. Bethesda confirmed support about a week after release, following a wave of backlash over the fact that the game exclusively used AMD’s FSR 2. The company says DLSS 3 is coming to a Steam Beta update next week, and it will roll out to all PC and Xbox players shortly after.
Note, DLSS is for PC Nvidia users only. We’ll also have AMD FSR3 support in a future update.
&mdash; Bethesda Game Studios (@BethesdaStudios) November 1, 2023 The big update here is AMD’s FSR 3, though. After a long year of waiting, FSR 3 arrived with barely a whimper in ho-hum titles like Immortals of Aveum and Forspoken.
Given that AMD claimed it was “PC exclusive partner” for Starfield , many assumed that FSR 3 would debut alongside the game. That wasn’t the case, and we haven’t gotten confirmation that FSR 3 would be added to the game until now.
It’s a big deal, as the outlook for FSR 3 up to this point hasn’t been great. Both Forspoken and Immortals of Aveum weren’t blockbuster releases, and upcoming releases sporting the tech like Avatar: Frontiers of Pandora haven’t generated the same anticipation as a game like Starfield.
That left us to assume Starfield would never get FSR 3 support. In AMD’s reveal of FSR 3 , just days before the release of Starfield, the company was shockingly quiet about Bethesda’s space-bound RPG.
Don’t believe the hype — the era of native resolution gaming isn’t over GPU prices and availability (Q4 2023): How much are GPUs today? AMD’s new anti-lag tech could land you with a ban in games Adding on top of that disappointment has been AMD’s Fluid Motion Frames (AFMF). The tech was supposed to add frame generation to thousands of games through AMD’s driver, but after releasing, it was discovered that AFMF would turn itself off during fast motion. That led to a situation where the frame rate would massively fluctuate during gameplay in titles that didn’t officially support FSR 3.
The inclusion of FSR 3 in Starfield shows that AMD’s tech has legs, though. We still don’t know when the update will arrive, with Bethesda simply saying it will arrive in “a future update.” Although the updates are focused on PC, it’s worth noting that Bethesda didn’t say the FSR 3 update would be exclusive to PC. Unlike Nvidia’s DLSS 3, FSR 3 works on consoles in addition to PC. It could be a massive benefit to Starfield on consoles, which is otherwise restricted to a locked 30 frames per second. It will certainly benefit PCs that can’t use DLSS 3, as Starfield ‘s PC performance still isn’t great.
Editors' Recommendations Call of Duty Modern Warfare 3: best settings, benchmarks, and more 23% of PC gamers probably can’t play Alan Wake 2. Here’s why AMD finally announced the GPU I’ve waited months for 4K gaming monitors are getting cheaper, but I still won’t buy one I can’t get excited about AMD’s next version of FSR anymore PC Gaming Tech News Computing AMD's FidelityFX Super Resolution (FSR) is growing up. The new FSR 3 feature promises to generate frames and multiply your performance, finally providing Nvidia's Deep Learning Super Sampling (DLSS) tech with a challenge.
The feature was announced nearly a year ago, but we've just seen the first games to support FSR 3 arrive. To bring you up to speed, here's everything you need to know about FSR 3, including how it works and what GPUs are supported.
What is FSR 3? FSR 3 is the third and latest version of AMD’s FidelityFX Super Resolution. Building upon the foundation of FSR 2's upscaling capabilities, FSR 3 introduces frame generation that allows the system to create entirely new in-game frames and present them to the user, which ultimately enhances the frames per second (fps). It is claimed to offer up to twice the frame rate as its predecessor.
Computing With some AI trickery, Nvidia has managed to cheat the traditional rendering pipeline for games. And that makes traditionally underpowered laptops so much better.
Its latest RTX 40-series mobile GPUs are very powerful -- especially if you jump up to the RTX 4090 in a machine like the Asus Strix Scar 17. But it’s the low-end options where Nvidia is really pushing ahead. That isn’t due to raw power, but instead Deep Learning Super Sampling (DLSS), Nvidia's AI-powered upscaling and frame generation tech.
Computing Nvidia's Deep Learning Super Sampling (DLSS) is getting a huge boost. The new DLSS 3.5 update adds a feature called Ray Reconstruction to the suite, and it promises to make ray tracing more realistic than ever before. I've tested it, and Nvidia was telling the truth.
Ray Reconstruction brings ray tracing to new heights of realism, and it's a fantastic addition to the DLSS suite. Even better, it works across all RTX graphics cards, unlike Nvidia's DLSS Frame Generation. However, there could be a problem with support as we see more games release with the feature. Ray Reconstruction may work with any RTX GPU, but it could be a feature that's only realistic for intensive ray tracing that requires one of the latest and greatest GPUs.
What ray tracing should be Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
