Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Gaming News Everything announced at BlizzCon 2023: Diablo 4 DLC, Cataclysm Classic, and more By Giovanni Colantonio Close Blizzard Entertainment For the first time since 2019, BlizzCon has returned to its traditional form.
 While Blizzard’s convention held an online ceremony in 2021, it has not been hosted as an in-person event since the COVID-19 pandemic began in 2020. That changed today with the 2023 edition, which saw fans returning to the Anaheim Convention Center to get all the news on the studio’s games.
World of Warcraft gets a huge new saga Cataclysm returns to World of Warcraft Classic Overwatch 2’s 2024 plans, new heroes previewed We got a glimpse at Diablo 4: Vessel of Hatred Hearthstone gets 50-card packs, co-op Battlegrounds Warcraft Rumble is out now (but you knew that) Phil Spencer lays out a mission statement for Blizzard It all kicked off with an Opening Ceremony that gave players updates on titles like Overwatch 2 , World of Warcraft , and more. It was an especially important moment for Blizzard, as it all took place very shortly after Microsoft completed its acquisition of the company this fall. Due to that move, all eyes were on the BlizzCon stage this year. That wasn’t lost on the company, which rolled out the big guns. We got an ambitious new DLC plan for World of Warcraft , saw Diablo 4 ‘s new DLC, and even got a cameo from Xbox head Phil Spencer. It was a long show packed with details, but we’ve got them all for you right here.
World of Warcraft gets a huge new saga Journey to the heart of the world.
A story 20 years in the making.
Introducing the tenth expansion of World of Warcraft, The War Within.
pic.twitter.com/rdje36HgaG &mdash; World of Warcraft (@Warcraft) November 3, 2023 World of Warcraft is getting a major story update. Blizzard veteran Chris Metzen revealed an ambitious content plan called the Worldsoul Saga. Metzen says it will take place over three expansions. Blizzard teased not just one, but all three of those expansions during the opening ceremony. The first expansion is dubbed The War Within and will have players exploring a subterranean kingdom. That’ll be followed by Midnight , which takes players back to Quel’Thalas. Finally, there’s The Last Titan , set in Northrend.
We got a glimpse at all those plans, with multiple trailers for The War Within.
 One was a live-action trailer that simply teased an emotional story built around an enormous, world-piercing sword. The second clip was far more informative, showing off new features. The expansion adds new zones like the Ringing Deeps and Hallowfall. We also got a rapid fire list of other features: Delves is a new end-game activity, Warbands allow players to link together their characters, and Hero Talents expand customization. The expansion is set to release in fall 2024.
Cataclysm returns to World of Warcraft Classic World of Warcraft Classic: Cataclysm 🏃‍♂️ Faster Cadence 📈 Improved Levelling 🤝 Improved Guild Features 🐺 Worgen and Goblins 🗡️ 10 Dungeons ⚔️ 5 Raids And more! pic.twitter.com/XUw08CJyjf &mdash; World of Warcraft (@Warcraft) November 3, 2023 As for the classic version, World of Warcraft is getting a big update in the form of Cataclysm Classic.
For those who don’t remember, Cataclysm is a critically acclaimed World of Warcraft expansion that released all the way back in 2010. The update is set to launch in the first half of 2024. The Classic version of the MMO is also getting Season of Discovery, which has a level 25 level cap initially. Blizzard will gradually raise that cap, adding in more rewards as it goes. It launches on November 30.
Overwatch 2’s 2024 plans, new heroes previewed Wonder if anyone saw this coming? 😉 The long-awaited Tank Mauga is the next hero in #Overwatch2 pic.twitter.com/J3duvnTfUr &mdash; Overwatch (@PlayOverwatch) November 3, 2023 Overwatch 2 game director Aaron Keller and other team members took the stage early on to give several updates on the sequel. That started with the reveal of the shooter’s next hero, Mauga, a Samoan Tank class character with a chain gun on each hand. He has abilities like Overrun, an unstoppable charge, and Cage Fight, which gives his team infinite ammo for a brief time. The character was first introduced in a short story four years ago, so he’s a long-awaited addition for eagle-eyed fans. He’ll join the roster in season 8, and players can try him for free today.
Keller also teased two new heroes. A hero named Venture is coming in season 10 and another code-named Space Ranger will join the roster in season 12. More details on both will be revealed during the remainder of BlizzCon.
Keller went on to discuss the team’s new “clarity of vision” that’s guiding its 2024 road map. The team is making a new PvP game mode called Clash, which is another point-capture variation. That’s also bringing a new map, Hanaoka, which is a new version of Hanamura. The game will also get a rework of how rewards, seasons, and lore work.
We got a glimpse at Diablo 4: Vessel of Hatred There will be no salvation in the light.
The #VesselofHatred expansion comes to #DiabloIV in late 2024 🐺 pic.twitter.com/OQQ3ZZU9HU &mdash; Diablo (@Diablo) November 3, 2023 For its Diablo 4 block, Blizzard gave a refresher on what’s in the current Season of Blood. That includes an experience boost that allows players to hit level 100 much faster. Starting next week, the season will introduce five class-specific rings from the game’s previous season. On December 5, the game will be getting an enchanting preview to make builds easier. That date will also bring a six-week event called Abbatoir of Zir. A holiday event, dubbed Midwinter Blight, is coming on December 12 (and it may just include a killer Santa Claus).
Blizzard also teased a few additions coming to season 3, including a Gauntlet mode that adds leaderboards. We also got a quick teaser of an upcoming story expansion dubbed Vessel of Hatred.
 That’s set to release in late 2024 and will include a new region, as well as one from Diablo 2.
 It’ll also come with a brand new class that has never appeared in a Diablo game before, though Blizzard was tight-lipped on what that is. More information on the expansion is coming next summer.
Hearthstone gets 50-card packs, co-op Battlegrounds Tumbleweeds roll by and high noon looms 🏜️ Grab your horse and your hat, it’s nearly time for a Showdown in the Badlands—launching November 14th! pic.twitter.com/ErfITzDPYp &mdash; Hearthstone (@PlayHearthstone) November 3, 2023 The Hearthstone team gave an overview of the card game’s next expansion, Showdown in the Badlands.
 A new trailer showed off its Wild West theme and teased a few new cards. It’ll add Reno Lone Ranger, the game’s first neutral hero card. The expansion launches on November 14.
Blizzard also announced Catch-up Packs, which include up to 50 cards from the last two years. All players are getting some packs, and some will be included in Showdown in the Badlands bundles too. Its unclear how much those cost for those who want to buy them outside of that.
On top of that, Battlegrounds is getting a co-op mode called Battlegrounds Duos. It’ll give teammates a shared health pool and let them trade cards back and forth during battles. The mode is set to launch in early 2024, with more information to come during the rest of the convention.
Warcraft Rumble is out now (but you knew that) The Countdown Starts Now! #WarcraftRumble launches on November 3rd: 🔹Collect 65+ Minis 🔹Challenge Iconic Warcraft Characters 🔹Level Up Your Army Pre-Register: https://t.co/wTrvaeEosH pic.twitter.com/6FeUy7WDxZ &mdash; Warcraft Rumble (@WarcraftRumble) October 3, 2023 Free-to-play mobile game Warcraft Rumble began rolling out right before BlizzCon began, so it only made sense that it would get a bit of attention during the show. We mostly got an overview of how it works covering dungeons, PvP, raids, and more. Blizzard set the segment up like a surprise shadow drop, though the game was already available nearly a day earlier.
Phil Spencer lays out a mission statement for Blizzard While not exactly an announcement, BlizzCon opened with an important moment as Xbox chief Phil Spencer took the stage. Spencer didn’t come with any news (like Blizzard games coming to Game Pass), but he did lay out a bit of a mission statement for Xbox’s relationship with the company. He gave a shout-out to the long-defunct Starcraft series, hinted that Blizzard games are coming to Xbox, and noted that the company will work closely with Blizzard to build its future. It was a big PR moment for the two companies that set the stage for the future without confirming anything new.
Editors' Recommendations After controversial updates, Diablo 4 devs learned to prioritize fun over balance Why Overwatch 2’s show-stealing new hero took an extra four years to debut Best Diablo 4 Rogue builds: recommended skills, passives, and gear Where to farm Crushed Beast Bones in Diablo 4 Is Diablo 4 cross-platform? BlizzCon: Complete Coverage PC Gaming Tech News Gaming The time for betas and tests is over, and now we only have the full Diablo 4 experience left to wait for.
Featuring a brand-new story, new skills, and a whole new way to play with a persistent world, hundreds of hours will be spent slaying demons alone and with friends.
Gaming After a long hiatus, BlizzCon will return to its in-person event format this year. The Blizzard gaming conference will take place on November 3 and 4 at the Anaheim Convention Center in Anaheim, CA.
https://twitter.com/Blizzard_Ent/status/1658884052110434305 Gaming Activision Blizzard plans to release a new Call of Duty game and mobile Warcraft game in 2022, according to a February 2022 financial results report.
As part of that report, the company went over what investors could expect from Activision, Blizzard, and King in 2022. Notably, a Warcraft game for mobile phones is officially teased for the first time: "Blizzard is planning substantial new content for the Warcraft franchise in 2022, including new experiences in World of Warcraft and Hearthstone, and getting all-new mobile Warcraft content into players’ hands for the first time." We've yet to learn the title of this game or see it in action. It'll be the first Warcraft game released since the disappointing Warcraft 3: Reforged in 2020, and the second to hit iOS and Android, following Hearthstone.
In the same report, Activision discussed Call of Duty in great detail. While the teased Call of Duty game is still untitled, this financial results report and a tweet from Infinity Ward heavily suggest that it's Modern Warfare 2. "Development on this year’s premium and Warzone experiences is being led by Activision’s renowned Infinity Ward studio," the results state. "The team is working on the most ambitious plan in franchise history, with industry-leading innovation and a broadly appealing franchise setting." Shortly afterward, Infinity Ward tweeted, "A new generation of Call of Duty is coming soon. Stay frosty." https://twitter.com/InfinityWard/status/1489346822208249861 "Stay frosty" is an iconic line of John "Soap" MacTavish, a classic Modern Warfare character that was only teased in the 2019 reboot. Considering that 2019's Call of Duty: Modern Warfare is widely regarded as the series' best game in recent memory, it's not a surprise that the Modern Warfare 2 rumors are true. A report from Bloomberg claims that this game will still release on PlayStation consoles, which makes sense as the Microsoft acquisition isn't expected to be complete until June 30, 2022.
Despite the acquisition being in progress, developers fighting to unionize, and the delay of Overwatch 2 and Diablo IV, this financial results report confirms that we can still expect new games from Activision Blizzard in 2022.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
