Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Gaming Features Despite its rocky start, I’m still optimistic about Overwatch 2’s future By Cameron Hawkins Close Overwatch 2 ’s launch year didn’t exactly go as planned.
Battle pass is better The PvE factor In the lead-up to its October 2022 launch, the excitement for the hero shooter sequel was sky-high, largely thanks to a planned Hero mode. As its release date approached, several choices during development would erode that hype. That would include the departure of Overwatch director Jeff Kaplan , a controversial swap to five-player teams, and plans for a revamped battle pass and microtransaction system. Even more complaints arose when new characters were initially locked behind a battle pass and Blizzard ditched its planned PvE campaign — which was arguably the biggest justification for creating the sequel in the first place..
Overwatch 2 may have disappointed fans by ditching its original vision, but it still has its hooks in me despite all that. It remains a genuinely fun shooter that’s better than its tarnished reputation implies. It’s consistently expanded since launch, with new characters, maps, and modes that have kept me coming back in spite of Blizzard’s mistakes. There’s still plenty of work to be done to restore player trust, but it’s far from the “dead game” some players are eager to paint it as.
Battle pass is better I’ll readily admit that Overwatch 2 is far from perfect, but the bitterness surrounding it often overshadows the improvements it made to its predecessor. That started with the removal of loot boxes. While Battle Passes are an old and tiring way to earn unlockables, it is, unfortunately, still the best format that we have with free-to-play titles. Each season’s Battle Pass has historically rewarded players with seven or eight skins that are completely unique for only $20 — and that’s not including the new hero that arrives every few seasons, as well as other rewards.
Blizzard Entertainment Any form of microtransaction is sure to stir controversy, but I’ll be honest: battle passes are a better option than loot boxes. If you regularly played the original Overwatch , loot boxes often spat out duplicate rewards that were converted to “credits.” Those would be used to purchase something you were eyeing for one of your go-to heroes,or you would wait and save up for an event-exclusive skin that was heavily sought-after. In the last year, I’ve found I would rather pay a flat fee to earn set cosmetics on top of being able to purchase skins rather than hoping to pull them through loot boxes or grind out credits. The new way that Overwatch 2 structures its rewards makes me feel like I don’t have to play every single day to get what I want or to finish the Battle Pass before the season ends.
Blizzard has also integrated legacy credits (which were earned from the original Overwatch ) into the sequel, allowing players to buy specific skins. Those were recently implemented in the Battle Pass too, allowing players to earn them.
Blizzard could still do better.
Overwatch is known for its great skins for characters and keeping so many of them locked to a season battle pass can give casual players the feeling that they are missing out. However, Jared Neuss, an executive producer for the game, confirmed earlier this year that is something the team is working on. Hopefully, they follow the example that 343 Industries has set with Halo Infinite by allowing people to buy Battle Passes and complete them at any time.
The PvE factor I can’t talk about Overwatch 2 without mentioning the elephant in the room: Hero mode’s unceremonious cancellation. Despite originally planning to launch a full PvE mode complete with skill trees, Blizzard quietly scrapped the idea in favor of smaller story events. The mode was one of Blizzard’s main justifications as to why it was creating Overwatch 2 in the first place, so its cancellation has earned the sequel a bad reputation that’s been hard to scrub off.
It didn’t help that the first PvE event, Invasion , was a mixed bag. The missions themselves were plenty of fun, ending with a bang at Torbjorn’s factory in Sweden. What was less exciting, though, was the story itself. While we know a lot about Overwatch’s cast of heroes already through the YouTube shorts, books, comics and more, the Invasion arc was seemingly the beginning of the game’s story as we know it. For instance, the first major story moment shows Lucio being recruited to the new Overwatch team — despite the fact that he’s been a part of the franchise from the very beginning. It seems that Blizzard is starting its narrative from the top despite players knowing these characters for nearly eight years. The decision isn’t particularly bad, but it makes me feel like there could be a lot of time used up down the line to “officially” introduce characters that we have known for years.
Blizzard Entertainment Even with the jarring choices Blizzard has made with starting the narrative fresh, the PvE gameplay is genuinely a joy to play and its story does a great job at showing how big the threat is by the end of the Invasion arc. It’s a small start, but it left me excited to see what the future holds. It is just a shame that those promising missions are set to drip out slowly, which may make it difficult for Blizzard to build momentum.
While Overwatch 2 ’s biggest selling point has yet to meet expectations, there’s still a lot about what’s been released so far that is worthy of praise. There have been 11 new maps added since launch (not including story missions or arcade-specific maps) for free and six (going on seven) new heroes. Seasons have also added event challenges where players can earn exclusive rewards. Blizzard has consistently tweaked characters for the better, and each new hero has been a worthy addition. Flashpoint, while still relatively recent, has been a refreshing new game type and a strong replacement for two-point capture.
Blizzard Entertainment Blizzard not going through with its original content plan remains a hard pill to swallow, but outside of that, every other change or addition has been a positive one. And there’s still work to be done. Overwatch League is in a weird limbo right now, and the game’s professional competitive future is unknown, which signals that it might not be in the healthiest spot. As a casual player, though, I’ve had a blast in the past year following the development team down its path, and they have continued to introduce new features to keep Overwatch 2 exciting (its new LE SSERAFIM collaboration is especially a highlight).
If you checked out of Overwatch 2 early amid bad press, now’s a good time to hop back in and appreciate the shooter for what it is rather than what it isn’t. Despite a rocky year, I’m optimistic about the future of Overwatch 2.
 And I think fans, new and old, should be too.
Editors' Recommendations Why Overwatch 2’s show-stealing new hero took an extra four years to debut Overwatch 2’s story missions are the light at the end of a very long, dark tunnel PlayStation Showcase teased Sony’s live service future, but I’m not impressed yet Overwatch 2’s newest hero Lifeweaver is a game-changer for support players Counter-Strike 2 could succeed where Overwatch 2 failed Features PC Gaming Gaming I haven't played Half-Life: Alyx, but I really, really want to.
Last month, I picked up the PlayStation VR2 as my first virtual reality headset and have been enjoying a wide range of games on it since then, from Zombieland: Headshot Fever Reloaded to Horizon Call of the Mountain. Although the lack of exciting new titles in PSVR2's launch window library doesn't bother me that much as this is my first VR experience, I do still recognize that there are only a couple of games that are pushing the PSVR2's technology and giving Sony's second VR outing a clear identity.
Gaming Blizzard confirmed that it is temporarily removing Mei from Overwatch 2 until November 15 due to a bug discovered related to her Ice Wall ability.
https://twitter.com/BlizzardCS/status/1587189209844125696 Gaming Like many live-service games, Overwatch 2 is dressing up for the holidays. Special events tied to real holidays are common today, as they can bring some fun, limited-time flair to a game. This month, plenty of games are going orange and black for the season, bringing pumpkin spice and scares into players' favorite experiences. It's a cause for celebration, especially for those who particularly vibe with the whole October spooky season aesthetic.
Overwatch 2 Halloween Terror Seasonal Event Trailer 2022 Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
