Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Gaming News Warcraft and Diablo devs reveal the focus of Phil Spencer’s Blizzard visit By Tomas Franzese Close Microsoft completed its acquisition of Activision Blizzard in October, and shortly thereafter, Microsoft Gaming CEO Phil Spencer confirmed on the Official Xbox Podcast that he was going to visit Activision Blizzard studios in the coming weeks. Spencer did so prior to BlizzCon 2023, where he also ended up making an appearance during the Opening Ceremony to reaffirm Xbox’s commitment to support all of Blizzard’s major franchises. To get a better idea of what Spencer’s studio visit and BlizzCon appearance felt like for Blizzard developers, we asked John Hight, Warcraft franchise general manager, and Rod Fergusson, Diablo general manager, about the experience.
Blizzard Entertainment “They actually came out a couple of weeks ago, Phil and a lot of his leadership team. What was nice about it was we had prepared all of these PowerPoints and stuff, but they just wanted to meet the teams,” Hight told Digital Trends. “They had lunch out in our patio, the cafe. We had hundreds of employees and Phil made himself available just to talk to people. He just wanted to see some of the games and meet some of the people, so we gave him a demo of one of the areas in The War Within for a while, and then we had [game designer] Tom [Chilton] demo Warcraft Rumble.
 It was fun because we started to go through introductions and I said ‘Clearly you’re having fun playing the game, you can tune out and just play that.’ They’ve been very supportive. I think they’re excited by the fact that, especially with Warcraft, we have a diversity of games and platforms that we’re building for.” For Fergusson, the Phil Spencer connection goes even deeper, as he worked with and at Microsoft for several years on the Gears of War franchise.
He reiterated many of Hight’s sentiments, affirming that the primary goal of Xbox leadership’s visit was to get to know the people at Blizzard Entertainment.
“ Him and his leadership team came … for a day visit to get to meet the people, and so that was nice,” Fergusson told Digital Trends. “They were doing this sort of road show where they went to King and then Activision and then they came to Blizzard. But it was less focused on ‘here’s our strategy’ or ‘here’s all the business stuff.’ It was more about ‘Who are you? Who are these people?’ They went out of their way to meet the leadership teams, introduce everyone, and get a general sense of who the people are, names to faces, which was really nice.” Microsoft Fergusson went on to then discuss Spencer’s appearance at BlizzCon in further detail, saying it reminded him of working with Spencer at E3 2019. Fergusson compared the feeling to that of a band getting back together.
“At the opening ceremony, having Phil there was cool because I was onstage with him in 2019 at E3. Having him backstage, making fun of him while he’s getting his makeup done, and all of that stuff felt very familiar. I mean, I did 15 years at Microsoft, so it feels good to be going back into that group. There’s a getting the band back together kind of feeling. What’s exciting is that Microsoft is going to enable and empower Blizzard. As Phil talked about in the speech, he’s going to make sure that we’re able to do the things that we want to do and empower us to do that.” In terms of the next big launches for Blizzard under Microsoft, World of Warcraft’s The War Within expansion and Diablo IV’s Vessel of Hatred expansion are both expected to launch in 2024.
Disclosure: Blizzard Entertainment paid for accommodations so that Digital Trends could attend BlizzCon 2023.
Editors' Recommendations After controversial updates, Diablo 4 devs learned to prioritize fun over balance Everything announced at BlizzCon 2023: Diablo 4 DLC, Cataclysm Classic, and more Activision Blizzard plans mobile Warcraft, next Call of Duty Overwatch 2 and Diablo 4 delayed amid leadership changes at Blizzard Blizzard will host BlizzConline, an online-only BlizzCon for 2021 PC Gaming Tech News Gaming Warcraft III: Reforged launched on PC last week, and the reception hasn't been particularly kind. Players criticized the game for missing features present in the original version, a poor interface, and bugs. For those unhappy with the technical state of the game, Blizzard is offering automatic refunds.
Blizzard is now offering speedy and automatic refunds to those who have already purchased Warcraft III: Reforged, as a Reddit user pointed out in a February 3 post. The user said the process was quick and that reporting it as a "tech issue" expedited the process. The reported bugs, rather than issues about game quality, could be why Blizzard decided to offer refunds. The bugs include the failure to load into custom games, with defeat screens instead being displayed when starting a mission.
Gaming A recurring theme among developers and designers at Blizzcon 2019 seems to be learning experiences. Developers are pulling ideas the entire Diablo franchise.
Diablo 4's developers hope the lessons of the past can be used to craft an excellent combat system. Players will be able to dispatch hordes of demons in all-new ways in the next installment in the Diablo franchise. Whether you’re a shape-shifting druid, a battle-hardened barbarian, or an ice-slinging sorceress, features both old and new will make your combat experience smoother than ever.
Gaming Blizzard has spent Blizzcon 2019 touting a dark and twisted world for players to explore in Diablo 4. This time around, though, you’ll be doing so with others, as the seamless world will be populated with other players. Just how interconnected will Sanctuary actually be? And is solo play still viable? The answers to those questions are complicated.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
