Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Outdoors Reviews Anker PowerHouse II 800 review: A camper’s best friend for the great outdoors By Simon Sage Close $700.00 Solar-friendly Extra built-in LED lighting Loads of USB ports Strong but awkward handle Anker is well-established in the field of backup phone batteries, and I’ve enjoyed some of its models for years. However, after a few camping trips laden with a dozen portable packs to keep my (and my friends’) phones well-charged, I was eager to streamline things with a chunky power station like the Anker PowerHouse II 800.
Out of the box Design Power features Our take Out of the box This 777 watt-hour battery has enough plugs to keep a slew of gadgets charging concurrently. Two AC plugs are available to handle your bigger devices, while four USB-A ports and two 60-watt USB-C ports can take care of your phones and tablets. There’s a DC car socket as well, which you might end up using for an air mattress pump.
The best battery packs and power stations for use in the outdoors As for charging inputs, the PowerHouse II 800 supports solar panels producing up to 120W. It also benefits from maximum power point tracking, which dynamically optimizes the battery to make the most of variable incoming power from solar panels. I was able to get an old Goal Zero Nomad 13 solar panel plugged into the DC slot and charging just fine, but after sitting on my balcony for two-and-a-half sunny days, the PowerHouse barely clocked 3%. You’ll likely need some big solar panels to charge this bad boy in reasonable time.
Simon Sage / Digital Trends You can always juice up the PowerHouse II 800 the old-fashioned way with the wall socket. If you want to eke a bit more power into it, you can also plug the included USB-C cables into the wall at the same time.
Design The PowerHouse II 800 is positioned as a rough-and-tumble product thanks to its reinforced corners. We’re dealing with electronics, so generally speaking, you don’t want to be out standing in the rain with your phone while it charges, but as far as water protection goes, the AC plugs and DC car plug are covered well. The only complaint is that the joints aren’t well-positioned for plugs that angle down at 90 degrees toward the grounding wire. Anchoring those silicone flaps above the plug instead would have prevented extra wear.
Simon Sage / Digital Trends The top-mounted handle is sturdy, rigid, and has great grip. For something that weighs 18 pounds, it’s much needed. However, the handle does break up the profile of the box, making it challenging to pack. So if you’re putting anything on top of it during your road trip or in your closet during the off-season, you’re adding stress to that handle and generally making storage awkward. You’re also losing out on prime real estate for your devices. Many other power stations in this category have their handles built into the corners of the case itself to avoid issues like this.
The front LCD display gives you all the relevant information you need, including total charge, estimated remaining output life, time to input a full charge, current frequency and power, and temperature warnings. Below that are three hardware buttons that let you activate each of the major sections independently. Sadly, there’s no companion app to monitor these things.
Power features It’s probably wrong to see the PowerHouse II 800 as a proper home backup solution. It’s explicitly rated not to support devices over 500W, like microwaves, toasters, or hair dryers. The most aggressive test I put this battery through was having my desktop PC and plasma TV plugged in to watch some YouTube videos.
The PowerHouse II 800 seems to be for weekend camping getaways with multiple people who need their phones topped up.
The draw bounced between 460W and 500W, which bought me a little over an hour of charge. My dreams of rugged off-grid individualism dashed, I went for a more modest test the next day. This time I just had my laptop and external monitor plugged in, and they fared perfectly well for the full day. Anker estimates that you can get 55 phone charges, 19 tablet charges, or 10 laptop charges out of a fully charged PowerHouse II 800.
The 60W maximum output on the USB-C plugs isn’t as high as it could be. Many power stations have stronger USB output that are capable of keeping more powerful laptops running. As it stands, you’ll have to make do with one of the standard AC slots. You’ll also see more and more power stations with wireless charging on top for added convenience. For what it’s worth, Anker does employ its PowerIQ 3.0 charging technology via USB-C that is compatible with Apple, Samsung, and Qualcomm quick-charging standards.
Simon Sage / Digital Trends The perfect use case for the PowerHouse II 800 seems to be weekend camping getaways with multiple people who need their phones topped up. If anything really hammers the outdoorsy use case home, it’s not one, but two built-in LED lights. One little guy can provide a focused beam, while the broad rear one has a nice diffuse light that would perfectly fill a tent. The small light includes an SOS mode, which can come in handy when you’re abandoned beerless on an island late at night and you need to signal friends at the other side of the lake.
Our take The expectations I had of my first power station were a little on the ambitious side. I was hoping that this would be the sort of thing that could keep my fridge running in an outage, but I would have known better if I had looked at the box a little more closely. The $700 priced PowerHouse II 800 excels in keeping multiple small devices charged for brief off-grid excursions.
A few minor design quibbles aside, the PowerHouse II 800 is small and lightweight enough to be tossed in the trunk for a weekend getaway. Even if it doesn’t have the capacity to keep household appliances running, having a power source like this topped up in the closet could certainly help keep your personal electronics energized during extended electrical outages. Good connectivity for solar panels and extra built-in lighting make it a natural fit for the outdoors.
Is there a better alternative? The market for midrange power stations is vast. The last power station we looked at was the Jackery Explorer 1000.
 It subs out a few USB slots for an extra AC plug, and has a larger capacity consummate with its higher price tag. Products from EcoFlow in the $700 price range include companion apps and expandable capacities, which may be gimmicks, but they certainly catch the eye.
How long will it last? The life of lithium ion batteries is about 3 to 5 years, though that can depend on usage. For something this seasonal, I would expect it to last quite a bit longer. Anker suggests keeping the PowerHouse II 800 charged every 3 months in order to maintain lifespan.
Should you buy it? If you’re on the hunt for something that’s a step up from your everyday mobile battery pack, the PowerHouse II 800 is a fine pick. It’s missing some of the bells and whistles that you’ll find on other power stations in its class, but nothing significant.
Editors' Recommendations The best portable power stations Portable Power Stations Power Station Reviews Outdoors EcoFlow, a manufacturer of portable energy solutions, has announced the launch of the Delta 2 Max -- an eco-friendly solar generator that could replace your current gas generator. The device clocks in at 2,048 watts and should deliver enough power to keep your home running for two days as an emergency backup (or many more if you’re using it as an off-grid power source).
The original Delta Max was a popular item for outdoor adventures, as it could connect to the existing lineup of portable EcoFlow solar panels to juice up gadgets while out in the backcountry. That legacy continues with the Delta 2 Max, which features an upgraded lithium iron phosphate (LFP) battery for a longer life cycle and faster charging.
Outdoors Warm weather is here, and so is grilling season. Now is as good a time as any to set out in search of one of the best outdoor grills, and it’s never a bad time to keep an eye out for a discount on one as well. Whether you’re a grilling beginner ready for some burgers with the family or a seasoned pro looking to host summer gatherings around one of the best smart grills and smokers, we’ve tracked down all of the details you need to land a deal on a grill that’s right for your needs. Read onward for more details.
Everdure CUBE charcoal grill — $150, was $199 The Everdure CUBE charcoal grill is a unique little grill that can truly go almost anywhere with you. It’s lightweight and only 17-inches long, yet still can handle almost any grilling challenge a griller on the go could hope to throw at it. It has a built-in heat protection shield and chrome handles that remain cool while cooking, and the removable charcoal tray offers easy cleanup when you’re finished at the campground or on the beach. Wherever you intend to do some grilling this summer, the Everdure CUBE charcoal grill is a great option as a copilot.
Outdoors The best electric bikes have come a long way in recent years and we don't just mean in terms of the miles you travel. With technology changing quickly, there are also an increasing number of electric bike deals around and we've picked out some of the very best. Electric bikes are a great way of getting around more easily and without necessarily needing to use as much stamina as a regular bike. Below, you'll find fantastic e-bike bike deals from many different retailers. There'll be something for every need here. Let's take a look at them.
Jasion EB5 Electric Bike -- $430, was $750 With a 350w brushless motor, the Jasion EB5 Electric Bike can achieve a top speed of 20 MPH with a range of up to 25-40 miles per charge. It has four working modes with a PAS mode where the motor assists with a moderate amount of power as you pedal, along with a Pure Electric Mode, a Pedal Mode, and a Booster Mode where the bike assist on hills and anywhere else you might be struggling. 26-inch puncture-resistant tires provide excellent durability while there's a high-strength front fork suspension, Shimano 7-speed gears, dual lights, and an LCD display. The latter offers controls for adjustable backlight brightness with one of five levels, along with mode controls.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
