Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Outdoors Reviews Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? EcoFlow Delta Mini review: Small package, big battery By Jeremy Laukkonen Close $999.00 Plenty of power Compact and lightweight Great handle design Convenient companion app Could use more USB ports No wireless charging The EcoFlow Delta Mini is a portable power station that’s essentially a downsized version of EcoFlow’s popular Delta Pro. It’s built around a big 882Wh lithium battery, and it’s capable of putting out enough power to run just about anything you can throw at it. You could even run a small air conditioning unit off the Delta Mini for a couple of hours if you absolutely had to, but a more realistic scenario would be to break it out during a power outage to keep your most essential electronics up and running. It’s also an ideal size for use on camping and road trips, tailgating, or anywhere else you might need some power away from home.
Design Setup and use Sockets and ports Battery and performance Price and availability Our take Design Jeremy Laukkonen/Digital Trends EcoFlow set out to make a more portable version of the Delta Pro, and that’s exactly what this is. It looks like a miniaturized version of the Pro, with the same two-tone plastic case, low-profile handles built into the top of the case, and all of the inputs and outputs split between the left and right sides of the device. It doesn’t have wheels like the Pro, but that’s because it doesn’t need them. The Delta Mini is light enough to pick up with one hand or to carry around comfortably held by both handles.
EcoFlow’s Wave portable AC arrives just in time for summer The front and back of the unit are both featureless, save for large fan slits running along the upper portion of the two-tone case. The handles extend slightly to the sides, so it has a bit of a shorter profile than power stations that utilize a single cooler-style handle on top.
One side of the Delta Mini features a digital display, power button, and USB ports. The other side has a panel you can pop off to access the power inputs, a number of AC outputs below that, and a 12V accessory socket below that. The unit also includes two barrel connector ports for hooking up DC devices.
Jeremy Laukkonen/Digital Trends The overall look is smart and clean, and I found that the Delta Mini didn’t look out of place alongside my electronics at home. Some portable power stations stick out like a sore thumb due to ruggedized construction or loud colors, so the sleek, professional look of the Delta Mini is a nice touch if you want to keep it with your electronics in uninterruptible power supply (UPS) mode as an emergency battery backup. It works just like the Delta Pro’s battery backup mode , just without as much stored power on tap.
Setup and use Image used with permission by copyright holder The EcoFlow Delta Mini is ready to use right out of the box, and my review unit arrived with a 30% charge. It includes a power cord that you can plug into the wall for rapid charging, an adapter that allows you to charge through your vehicle’s 12V accessory socket or cigarette lighter, and an adapter with weatherproof plugs that you can connect to a solar panel.
While you can get started by just pushing a button and plugging in your gear, the EcoFlow Delta Mini also has a companion app that you can use to track performance and perform some useful tricks.
The app is easy to set up, and the process will be familiar if you’ve set up a lot of smart home devices. The Delta Mini has a button marked IoT Reset and pushing it causes the Delta Mini to create a temporary Wi-Fi network. When you connect your phone to that network, the companion app will detect the Delta Mini, add it to your list of EcoFlow devices, and connect it to your home Wi-Fi network.
Once you’ve set up the app, you can use it to check the charge level of the Delta Mini, input and output wattage, check individual outputs, activate the X-Boost mode, and more. The app also provides an easy way to update the Delta Mini’s firmware. EcoFlow does provide firmware updates from time to time, so it’s great to have an easy way to download and install them.
Jeremy Laukkonen/Digital Trends One of the most intriguing features of the Delta Mini is that you can use it in what EcoFlow calls “entry-level UPS and series mode.” This mode allows you to plug the Delta Mini into power, then plug a device like a computer into the Delta Mini. During normal use, the Delta Mini acts as a pass-through, and the computer will draw power directly from the grid instead of the battery. If the power goes out, the Delta Mini will switch to the battery, allowing you to keep using your computer.
I tested the UPS function by switching off power to the Delta Mini, since I didn’t experience any actual power outages during my time with the unit, and I found it to work just as well as my consumer-grade UPS units. That said, EcoFlow cautions that the Delta Mini may take up to 30ms to switch, which is too long for some devices.
Sockets and ports Previous Next 1 5 Jeremy Laukkonen/Digital Trends Jeremy Laukkonen/Digital Trends Jeremy Laukkonen/Digital Trends Jeremy Laukkonen/Digital Trends Jeremy Laukkonen/Digital Trends The Delta Mini includes a nice selection of ports, with four USB ports located on one side right under the display, and the rest of the outputs on the other side. It includes five AC outputs with space for two grounded plugs, two DC barrel connectors, and a 12V accessory socket.
For inputs, it includes one socket that can be plugged into a solar panel or your car’s cigarette lighter and another that can be plugged into AC power for faster charging. When plugged into AC power, you have the option to flip a toggle for either normal or fast charging. The fast charge option speeds up charging quite a bit if you’re pressed for time, but it’s also harder on the battery.
Battery and performance Jeremy Laukkonen/Digital Trends The Delta Mini is built around an 882Wh lithium-ion battery, and it’s rated to put out 1,400W continuous, with intermittent surges up to 2,100W. The USB ports are rated to put out a maximum of 12W per port, the USB-C port can handle up to 100W, and the 12V accessory socket can output 126W.
I tried a number of power-hungry devices on the USB-C port, including a Nintendo Switch in dock mode, an M1 MacBook Air, and a few different phones. The Switch ran fine, while the other devices operated in fast charge mode just as expected. To test the AC outlets, I plugged in a variety of high-wattage devices, including a hairdryer and a heat gun, and I was able to push it up to the rated 1,400W output without issue.
The AC charging option is definitely the fastest. It can charge fully in a little over an hour and a half, or from empty to 80 percent in under an hour if you use the fast charge option.
The AC charging option is definitely the fastest. It can charge fully in a little over an hour and a half, or from empty to 80 percent in under an hour if you use the fast charge option. It takes almost 10 hours to charge via a car outlet, which isn’t a great option unless you’re on the road a lot. Solar charge time depends on the panels you use and the available light.
My review unit didn’t include solar panels, but I was able to hook up to a Jackery SolarSaga 100W panel that I have. In full sunlight, the EcoFlow app estimated a 10 hour charge time. If you add multiple panels or a single bigger panel, EcoFlow says that you can cut that down to about three to six hours.
With 882Wh of capacity and a continuous output of 1,400W, the Delta Mini is a surprisingly capable little power supply. It isn’t a viable replacement for a whole house generator, but it has enough juice to keep you rolling through the occasional blackout, or to provide power on a long weekend camping trip if you pack a couple of solar panels to keep it topped up.
Price and availability The EcoFlow Delta Mini is available from Amazon, directly from EcoFlow, and from a number of other retailers. It has an MSRP of $999 but it’s typically priced in the $749 to $849 range.
Our take The EcoFlow Delta Mini is a rock-solid power station that packs in a lot of power alongside some useful features. The best use case scenarios for this are to keep some basic electronics powered up during a power outage, or to power and charge your devices during a camping or road trip. It’s good to go for a short power outage, or a longer blackout or camping trip if you’re willing to invest in a beefy solar panel. The overall utility of the Delta Mini is limited by the size of the battery and the rated output capacity, but there are bigger options if this doesn’t meet your power needs.
Is there a better alternative? This is one of the best portable power stations in its class, but there are other viable alternatives out there. The Jackery Explorer 1000 is the strongest competitor, with a 1,002Wh battery and 1,000W continuous output. It has a little bigger battery and is rated to put out a little less continuous output, and the pricing is about the same. It only has three AC outputs, but all three of them are capable of accepting grounded plugs. It has two USB-C ports instead of just one, but the same number of USB ports overall. It also looks and feels a lot more rugged, but it isn’t any more waterproof than the Delta Mini.
EcoFlow also has a lot of other options if this one doesn’t quite meet your needs. For example, the Delta Pro is an upsized version with a bigger battery and higher output capacity, and the River Mini is a highly portable little unit that’s capable of keeping your phone, laptop, and other electronics powered up.
How long will it last? The EcoFlow Delta Mini feels solid enough, with heavy-duty plastic construction and beefy handles that are built right into the casing. It doesn’t feel rugged enough to use on a job site, but it seems plenty tough enough for use around the home during power outages, on a camping trip, and other uses where it won’t be subjected to much abuse. It isn’t water-proof though, which is important to keep in mind if you plan on using it outside. Leaving it out in the rain is likely to shorten its lifespan.
The most important factor is that the Delta Mini is rated at 800 charge cycles before it drops below 80% capacity. That means you could fully charge and discharge the Delta Mini every day for over two years, and it would still provide 80 percent of its original 882Wh capacity. It also has a two-year warranty, so you can expect it to last that long at the very least.
Should you buy it? Yes, you should pick up a Delta Mini if it meets your power needs. Think about the sort of devices that you might need to keep running during a power outage, or on a camping trip, and check to see if the Delta Mini has enough battery capacity. If it does, then this is a great little power station to have at the ready. It’s small enough to stow in a hall closet or toss in the trunk of your car, and it’s a great option to have on hand whenever the power goes out.
Editors' Recommendations EcoFlow launches Delta 2 Max solar generator for home emergencies and outdoor adventures Portable Power Stations Power Station Reviews Outdoors EcoFlow, a manufacturer of portable energy solutions, has announced the launch of the Delta 2 Max -- an eco-friendly solar generator that could replace your current gas generator. The device clocks in at 2,048 watts and should deliver enough power to keep your home running for two days as an emergency backup (or many more if you’re using it as an off-grid power source).
The original Delta Max was a popular item for outdoor adventures, as it could connect to the existing lineup of portable EcoFlow solar panels to juice up gadgets while out in the backcountry. That legacy continues with the Delta 2 Max, which features an upgraded lithium iron phosphate (LFP) battery for a longer life cycle and faster charging.
Outdoors Warm weather is here, and so is grilling season. Now is as good a time as any to set out in search of one of the best outdoor grills, and it’s never a bad time to keep an eye out for a discount on one as well. Whether you’re a grilling beginner ready for some burgers with the family or a seasoned pro looking to host summer gatherings around one of the best smart grills and smokers, we’ve tracked down all of the details you need to land a deal on a grill that’s right for your needs. Read onward for more details.
Everdure CUBE charcoal grill — $150, was $199 The Everdure CUBE charcoal grill is a unique little grill that can truly go almost anywhere with you. It’s lightweight and only 17-inches long, yet still can handle almost any grilling challenge a griller on the go could hope to throw at it. It has a built-in heat protection shield and chrome handles that remain cool while cooking, and the removable charcoal tray offers easy cleanup when you’re finished at the campground or on the beach. Wherever you intend to do some grilling this summer, the Everdure CUBE charcoal grill is a great option as a copilot.
Outdoors The best electric bikes have come a long way in recent years and we don't just mean in terms of the miles you travel. With technology changing quickly, there are also an increasing number of electric bike deals around and we've picked out some of the very best. Electric bikes are a great way of getting around more easily and without necessarily needing to use as much stamina as a regular bike. Below, you'll find fantastic e-bike bike deals from many different retailers. There'll be something for every need here. Let's take a look at them.
Jasion EB5 Electric Bike -- $430, was $750 With a 350w brushless motor, the Jasion EB5 Electric Bike can achieve a top speed of 20 MPH with a range of up to 25-40 miles per charge. It has four working modes with a PAS mode where the motor assists with a moderate amount of power as you pedal, along with a Pure Electric Mode, a Pedal Mode, and a Booster Mode where the bike assist on hills and anywhere else you might be struggling. 26-inch puncture-resistant tires provide excellent durability while there's a high-strength front fork suspension, Shimano 7-speed gears, dual lights, and an LCD display. The latter offers controls for adjustable backlight brightness with one of five levels, along with mode controls.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
