Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Outdoors Reviews Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? EcoFlow River Mini review: Portable power and wireless charging By Jeremy Laukkonen Close $349.00 Light and portable 15W wireless charging Good number of USB ports Includes 100W USB-C port Rear notch makes it easy to carry Tight outlet placement Glossy black finish is a fingerprint magnet No carrying handle, so it's awkward to pick up EcoFlow’s River line of compact power stations has a design philosophy that focuses more on portability and features instead of the battery capacity or output. The River Mini is the most diminutive model in the series, and it packs some serious capabilities into a form factor that’s small enough to fit under the seat of your car, or maybe even in your glove box. It features a respectable 210-watt-hour battery, 300-watt continuous AC output from two outlets, three USB ports, and a 12-volt accessory socket. It’s available in both standard and wireless versions, with the wireless version including a built-in Qi wireless charging pad.
Design Setup and use Sockets and ports Battery and performance Price and availability Our take Design Jeremy Laukkonen/Digital Trends The EcoFlow River Mini is a slick little device, with a rounded rectangular shape and shiny black plastic finish that’s somewhat evocative of an old clock radio. The top of the device is cupped and flat, making it a good place to set your phone and other small items. If you opt for the wireless version, this platform doubles as a Qi wireless charger that’s capable of delivering up to 15W. In terms of performance, it’s right up there with the best wireless phone chargers.
Make ice in the woods, heat your tent, and scoop poop with EcoFlow’s CES 2023 gadgets EcoFlow’s Wave portable AC arrives just in time for summer Amazon slashes prices on Jackery and Enkeeo portable power stations The front of the River Mini features a large digital display, a power button, USB ports, and the 12-volt accessory socket. The AC outlets are located around one of the sides, along with a panel you can pop open to access the charging input sockets. The other side of the River Mini is void of features, as is the back. The back of the device does have a large cutout along the bottom that makes for an excellent grip. While this power station is small, it’s a bit big and heavy to palm football-style. The cutout goes a long way toward fixing that issue. It’s still a little awkward to carry around, but it’s very easy to pick up.
Jeremy Laukkonen/Digital Trends The shiny black plastic case looks great, but I found it to be an absolute fingerprint magnet. I’m not a big fan of shiny black plastic electronics for that very reason, but it does clean up nicely with a microfiber cloth. The soft rubber ring around the top of the device suffers from a similar issue, as it seems to pick up dust that settles into the rubber, which gives it a smudged look.
Setup and use Jeremy Laukkonen/Digital Trends The River Mini comes ready to use, although you’ll likely have to charge it first. Mine showed up with about a 30% charge, and it was ready to go in about an hour. You can turn the unit on by pushing a button on the front, and then activate your desired output method by pushing a button located near the relevant ports. From there, all you have to do is plug in your devices.
EcoFlow has an optional companion app that works with all of its power stations, and I highly recommend taking the time to set it up alongside the River Mini. The River Mini even has a QR code sticker on the bottom.
Scan the QR code , and it leads you directly to the app listing in the App Store or Google Play.
The EcoFlow companion app is pretty straightforward. The River Mini has a little button on the front marked IoT Reset, and pushing it causes the device to broadcast a Wi-Fi network. You can connect to that network with your phone, add the device in the EcoFlow app, and then connect the River Mini to your local Wi-Fi network. Once that process is over, you can monitor battery capacity and power usage through the app, check individual device connections, switch ports on and off, and even load up firmware updates.
Sockets and ports Jeremy Laukkonen/Digital Trends The EcoFlow River Mini features two AC power outlets, three USB-A ports, one USB-C port, and a 12V accessory socket. It also features a Qi wireless charging pad on top that supports fast wireless charging. The ports all worked as advertised, and I was able to plug in a variety of devices for testing purposes. The only issue I ran into is that the two AC power outlets are a bit crowded, and there’s only enough space to connect one grounded AC plug at a time.
Jeremy Laukkonen/Digital Trends For charging inputs, the River Mini includes a connection for an AC power cable and another connection that can accept a 12V charger that you plug into your car’s cigarette lighter, accessory port, or a solar charger. It also includes all the cables you’ll need for each of those options, with an AC power cable, a 12V accessory cable, and a solar charger cable that’s designed to plug into standard solar panel barrel connectors. If your solar panel doesn’t use MC4 barrel connectors, you’ll need an adapter.
Battery and performance Jeremy Laukkonen/Digital Trends The River Mini contains a 210Wh lithium-ion battery that’s capable of delivering a 300W continuous with surges up to 600W. It features a pure sine wave inverter, which means that it’s suitable for running delicate electronics and medical devices. For example, someone with sleep apnea could use the River Mini to run your CPAP machine on a camping trip without worrying about damaging your equipment.
Each of the USB-A ports are rated to supply 5V at 2.4A, and the USB-C port can provide up to 100W. The wireless charger is capable of supplying up to 15W. The 12V accessory socket is rated at 12.6V and 10A, which is enough to power most of the same gadgets you’d normally plug into your car’s cigarette lighter socket. The USB-C port was capable of powering everything I threw at it, including a Nintendo Switch in dock mode and an M1 MacBook Air.
The USB-C port was capable of powering everything I threw at it, including a Nintendo Switch in dock mode and an M1 MacBook Air.
Since the battery in the River Mini is on the small side, I found it to charge really fast. It charged up in about 90 minutes when plugged into the wall, and it showed a charge time of about three-and-a-half hours when I plugged it into my truck. Just don’t leave it plugged into a vehicle without the engine running, as doing so may drain the vehicle’s battery to the point where the engine won’t start.
My River Mini review unit didn’t include a solar panel, but I was able to plug it into my Jackery SolarSaga 100 with the help of an adapter. The River Mini automatically detected the power input and switched to charging mode, and I was able to charge the battery, in full sun, in about three hours.
Price and availability The EcoFlow River Mini has an MSRP of $349, but it’s typically priced in the $229 to $299 range. You can buy the EcoFlow River Mini from Amazon and a number of other retailers, or directly from EcoFlow.
Our take The EcoFlow River Mini attacks the portable battery market with gusto. Competitors in this price range are typically a bit more compact, but most of them also feature significantly weaker batteries, no AC power, or a single low-amperage AC output at the most. With two AC power sockets, four USB ports, a 12V accessory socket, and fast wireless charging to boot, the River Mini covers all the bases.
The killer feature is that the River Mini has all the same charging capabilities of the bigger EcoFlow units, which means you can plug it into a solar panel to keep the electricity flowing during a power outage or when you’re traveling off the grid. It doesn’t come with a solar panel, but it’s great to have the option of adding one if you decide that you need it.
Is there a better alternative? The Anker 521 Portable Power Station is one option that covers most of the same bases as the River Mini. It has a similar battery capacity and the same number of AC outlets, but one less USB port. It also doesn’t have wireless charging for your phone, and it doesn’t come with any of the required cables for hooking up a solar panel. It does have a nice handle that makes it easy to carry though.
How long will it last? The River Mini doesn’t look or feel quite as robust as other EcoFlow products I’ve used. The shiny black case feels thinner and more likely to crack under pressure, which may be a factor if you’re planning on subjecting the unit to any kind of rough use on the road, whether that’s camping, tailgating, or something else. It is rated to go 500 cycles before the storage capacity drops to 80 percent, which means you could fully drain and charge it every single day for nearly two years and still retain 80 percent of the original capacity. It’s likely to last far beyond that with gradually diminishing capacity, but EcoFlow does cover it with a two-year warranty against defects.
Should you buy it? Yes, you should consider buying the EcoFlow River Mini. This is one of the best portable power stations I’ve seen in this size, with features that beat most of the competition. The inclusion of a wireless charging platform more than makes up for the lack of a carrying handle, and I love that it has the same hookups for solar power as its bigger relatives. It’s also a great option if you’re looking for an entry-level device to keep on your desk to power your computer or network equipment, with the added bonus that you can power various USB devices and wirelessly charge your phone as well.
Editors' Recommendations EcoFlow launches Delta 2 Max solar generator for home emergencies and outdoor adventures The best portable power stations GoSun’s new portable power stations use the sun’s ray to charge devices This portable power station has 6 AC outlets and can charge a Tesla Portable Power Stations Power Station Reviews Outdoors EcoFlow, a manufacturer of portable energy solutions, has announced the launch of the Delta 2 Max -- an eco-friendly solar generator that could replace your current gas generator. The device clocks in at 2,048 watts and should deliver enough power to keep your home running for two days as an emergency backup (or many more if you’re using it as an off-grid power source).
The original Delta Max was a popular item for outdoor adventures, as it could connect to the existing lineup of portable EcoFlow solar panels to juice up gadgets while out in the backcountry. That legacy continues with the Delta 2 Max, which features an upgraded lithium iron phosphate (LFP) battery for a longer life cycle and faster charging.
Outdoors Warm weather is here, and so is grilling season. Now is as good a time as any to set out in search of one of the best outdoor grills, and it’s never a bad time to keep an eye out for a discount on one as well. Whether you’re a grilling beginner ready for some burgers with the family or a seasoned pro looking to host summer gatherings around one of the best smart grills and smokers, we’ve tracked down all of the details you need to land a deal on a grill that’s right for your needs. Read onward for more details.
Everdure CUBE charcoal grill — $150, was $199 The Everdure CUBE charcoal grill is a unique little grill that can truly go almost anywhere with you. It’s lightweight and only 17-inches long, yet still can handle almost any grilling challenge a griller on the go could hope to throw at it. It has a built-in heat protection shield and chrome handles that remain cool while cooking, and the removable charcoal tray offers easy cleanup when you’re finished at the campground or on the beach. Wherever you intend to do some grilling this summer, the Everdure CUBE charcoal grill is a great option as a copilot.
Outdoors The best electric bikes have come a long way in recent years and we don't just mean in terms of the miles you travel. With technology changing quickly, there are also an increasing number of electric bike deals around and we've picked out some of the very best. Electric bikes are a great way of getting around more easily and without necessarily needing to use as much stamina as a regular bike. Below, you'll find fantastic e-bike bike deals from many different retailers. There'll be something for every need here. Let's take a look at them.
Jasion EB5 Electric Bike -- $430, was $750 With a 350w brushless motor, the Jasion EB5 Electric Bike can achieve a top speed of 20 MPH with a range of up to 25-40 miles per charge. It has four working modes with a PAS mode where the motor assists with a moderate amount of power as you pedal, along with a Pure Electric Mode, a Pedal Mode, and a Booster Mode where the bike assist on hills and anywhere else you might be struggling. 26-inch puncture-resistant tires provide excellent durability while there's a high-strength front fork suspension, Shimano 7-speed gears, dual lights, and an LCD display. The latter offers controls for adjustable backlight brightness with one of five levels, along with mode controls.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
