Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Outdoors Reviews Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Jackery Explorer 1000 Portable Power Station review: Almost unlimited power By Adam Doud Close $1,300.00 Massive power bank Solar panels are legit Offers every kind of outlet Potentially unlimited power Expensive cost Ridiculously heavy When I first sat down to review the Jackery Solar Generator 1000, I was initially — and wrongly — disappointed, and it was entirely my fault. When Jackery reached out to gauge interest in a review of the product, I leaped at the opportunity. I’d been thinking about picking up some kind of battery backup for my home for when the power goes out. More so, I’d been looking at a good way to generate power while I’m out camping, and again, this seemed like a good fit. So, before we get to my misplaced disappointment, let’s talk about what this device is.
The Jackery Solar generator is a 1000W portable power station with a 1002 Wh capacity. It has three pure sine wave AC outlets, 2 USB-C ports, 1 USB-A port that supports Quick Charge 3.0, and one DC power port. In short, you can plug basically anything into this bad boy, from a phone to a refrigerator, and it will run just fine. All the power ports are located on the front, along with an LCD display that shows you the current charge level, incoming power, and outgoing power. Both AC and DC sections have power buttons, so you can turn them off when not in use. Around the side is a single flashlight with its own power button, and on the left is a large vent that accommodates airflow for the fans inside.
The best portable power stations GoSun’s new portable power stations use the sun’s ray to charge devices This portable power station has 6 AC outlets and can charge a Tesla Power from the sun Adam Doud/Digital Trends Along with the Explorer 1000, you can purchase two SolarSaga 100 solar panels that recharge the Explorer. The cells run at 23% efficiency, which is pretty decent in the field. They can generate up to 100W of peak power on a bright sunny day. Each of those panels weighs in at just over 10 pounds apiece. The Explorer 1000 battery weighs in at over 22 pounds. The panels fold up into 24 by 21 by 1.4 inches; put simply, none of this package is very portable nor small.
That, along with large and obvious warnings to keep all components out of the rain, I questioned the viability of this product as a “camping device.” Toting around 40 pounds of gear isn’t exactly my idea of portable. But we’ll discuss this more later on.
I used the Jackery to power a couple of different portable setups for work. In one instance, my son used it for his Windows laptop, school Chromebook, iPad, Android phone, and wireless headphones for two and a half days. I also set up a mobile workstation with a Windows laptop, iPad, portable monitor, and two wireless chargers that lasted me two days at a stretch. During that time I pulled around 40-60W of power. I admittedly forgot to turn off the outlets overnight, which probably could have kept me going another half day or so.
A device like this makes sure you can still work or stay connected even when you lose power at home, even if you lose power for days.
Using the battery is very straightforward. Just plug in what you need to power and turn on the outlets you need. You turn them on in groups — AC and DC. While you’re working, you will notice when the fan kicks on, because it’s fairly loud. It’s not jet-engine loud, but it can cover up a soft-spoken person for sure. Really, the fan is my only complaint about the device. It’s really noticeable.
When it came time to recharge, I tried two different methods. First, I plugged the Explorer 1000 into the wall. That took around eight hours to charge back to full. That’s not too bad. Next, I busted out the two solar panels, and that’s where the fun began.
Power from the sun Adam Doud/Digital Trends On the first day, I tried to keep the battery pack and solar panels in my sunroom because I was paranoid about rain. It was a cloudy day, but even so, the battery managed to take in a 41% charge. On day two, I was lucky enough to get a sunny day, so I put the panels out on the back deck facing the sun. I turned the panels twice throughout the day to keep maximum exposure, and I was able to easily top off the rest of the battery. But the most interesting part of the experience was the numbers.
In bright sunlight, both solar panels started pulling in over 100W of power. If you’ll recall, my portable productivity rig used between 40 to 60 Watts of power. Math is hard, but that suggests to me that I could theoretically work indefinitely off of this battery. If I set up my workstation near a window and put the panels outside, I’ll be charging more than I’m using. Of course, that’s under ideal circumstances. But the possibility is still intriguing.
But let’s get back to the “portable camping device” I talked about earlier. When I think “camping,” I think about a tent and being out in the elements. But camping can also include a trailer, and this is the use case I think this device is designed for. In a camper, you need power and the ability to generate more power. Plus, in a camper, you’re protected from the elements much more than in a tent, and you don’t have to carry the battery anywhere. You just keep it in the camper.
But also, a device like this makes sure you can still work or stay connected even when you lose power at home, even if you lose power for days. That’s a very important use case. Plus, being a solar generator, that power is cleaner and less noisy than a gas-powered generator.
 If you’re looking for a backup power supply for your home or a portable power generator for a trailer-assisted camping trip, this is a solid device. It even has a flashlight, if you’re jonesing for a 20-pound flashlight.
Our take Overall, this is a great power generator/battery that does exactly what it promises. The combination of the battery pack and the solar panels adds up to a pricey $1,300 with the solar panels included (or $1,000 without them), but honestly, many backup generators are around the same price or even more. The variety of ports available, including USB-A, USB-C, AC, and DC, means you can power anything. The two solar panels are huge — laughably huge — but they can recharge the entire 1000 Wh battery in under two days. That’s impressive.
Is there a better alternative? There certainly are other power packs and portable batteries of this size, but there aren’t many of this size, with this power-generation capability, and with this many outputs. It’s pretty hard to beat on all of those counts. If you want to save some money, you can go with a gas generator, but over time a gas generator needs gas, while the Jackery just needs the sun. Last I checked, the sun is still free.
If you’re looking for something that’s easier to lug around, the RAVPower Portable Power Station is an alternative that weighs 7.7 pounds and features 250W of power using one only outlet — or a grand total of 300W when using both outlets. It’s a lot more affordable too and perfect for those weekend camping trips. It’s enough to power a Peloton bike through your next workout too! Will it last? The Jackery Explorer is made of thick durable plastic. I don’t anticipate any problems on that front, but it is crazy heavy, so I could see an errant drop causing some damage. It would take an extraordinary set of circumstances to cause this thing to break. My only concern is a lack of water resistance on both the Explorer 1000 and the solar panels. There isn’t just a lack of water resistance; there are warnings on the packaging to keep these devices the heck away from water. The Jackery is backed by a two-year warranty as well.
Should I buy it? Yes, if you fall into one of the two categories I laid out. If you want a reliable backup power pack that can run a couple of essential appliances in the event of a power loss, or if you’re a camper owner looking for power in the great outdoors, this is a great setup. It’s expensive for sure, but the value it offers is top-notch.
Editors' Recommendations Portable wind turbines, solar tent, rolling battery round out Jackery’s CES 2023 launches Power Station Tera 1000 promises to recharge in two hours flat Amazon slashes prices on Jackery and Enkeeo portable power stations Forget ice — this cooler harnesses the power of the sun to chill your food The best battery packs and power stations for use in the outdoors Smart Home Power Station Reviews Mobile Previous Next Outdoors EcoFlow, a manufacturer of portable energy solutions, has announced the launch of the Delta 2 Max -- an eco-friendly solar generator that could replace your current gas generator. The device clocks in at 2,048 watts and should deliver enough power to keep your home running for two days as an emergency backup (or many more if you’re using it as an off-grid power source).
The original Delta Max was a popular item for outdoor adventures, as it could connect to the existing lineup of portable EcoFlow solar panels to juice up gadgets while out in the backcountry. That legacy continues with the Delta 2 Max, which features an upgraded lithium iron phosphate (LFP) battery for a longer life cycle and faster charging.
Outdoors Warm weather is here, and so is grilling season. Now is as good a time as any to set out in search of one of the best outdoor grills, and it’s never a bad time to keep an eye out for a discount on one as well. Whether you’re a grilling beginner ready for some burgers with the family or a seasoned pro looking to host summer gatherings around one of the best smart grills and smokers, we’ve tracked down all of the details you need to land a deal on a grill that’s right for your needs. Read onward for more details.
Everdure CUBE charcoal grill — $150, was $199 The Everdure CUBE charcoal grill is a unique little grill that can truly go almost anywhere with you. It’s lightweight and only 17-inches long, yet still can handle almost any grilling challenge a griller on the go could hope to throw at it. It has a built-in heat protection shield and chrome handles that remain cool while cooking, and the removable charcoal tray offers easy cleanup when you’re finished at the campground or on the beach. Wherever you intend to do some grilling this summer, the Everdure CUBE charcoal grill is a great option as a copilot.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
