Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending in Computing: Best Dell Laptops ChatGPT Best Monitors Asus ROG Azoth Review How to delete a page in Word in 3 easy steps RTX 4080 vs RTX 4070 Ti Best Mac Apps AMD vs Intel Recall an Email in Outlook Home Computing Features The success of AMD’s FSR 3 hinges on this one feature By Jacob Roach Close Image used with permission by copyright holder AMD finally shared more details on its FidelityFX Super Resolution 3 (FSR 3) this week, and it’s exactly what everyone was asking for. It supports frame generation, and it works across GPUs from AMD and Nvidia. The company is even releasing a driver-based version of its Fluid Motion Frames tech, potentially enabling game support for thousands of titles. It’s all good stuff.
Defining latency Why latency matters (and how you can reduce it) An uphill battle But a big question remains: How is AMD going to deal with latency? I wrote about the latency concern with Nvidia’s Deep Learning Super Sampling 3 (DLSS 3) in my last column entry — and why I choose to leave the feature off in most games. It’s one of the most pressing issues with the recent push of frame interpolation features, and AMD’s solution, at least in its current state, leaves a lot to be desired.
AMD’s FSR 3 will finally get a chance to shine in Starfield 23% of PC gamers probably can’t play Alan Wake 2. Here’s why This underrated Nvidia GPU is still the one to buy Defining latency Nvidia Let’s back up and define what we’re talking about with latency first. Your total system latency is the time it takes from the moment you click your mouse to the effect happening on your screen. It includes all the time it takes for that input to travel down your mouse cable, be processed by your PC, shot out your display cable, and finally show up on your screen.
With features like FSR 3 and DLSS 3, we’re focused on PC latency — that is, how much time does it take between when your PC receives the input and when it sends the final product out to your display. For this, Nvidia has Reflex and AMD has its Anti-Lag feature. In theory, both attempt to reduce latency by minimizing the render queue. Instead of frames being stored in a queue for your GPU to render, they’re passed directly from your CPU to your GPU so you get the latest frame as fast as possible.
Jacob Roach / Digital Trends AMD and Nvidia go about this in different ways, though. Reflex is a per-game feature, while Anti-Lag comes through AMD’s driver. That means you can use Anti-Lag in far more games, but it also starts processing much later in the game-to-render pipeline. You can see this at work in Cyberpunk 2077.
Reflex delivers a 49% reduction in average PC latency, while Anti-Lag delivers a 38% reduction. On top of that, the RX 6700 XT I tested showed higher average latency overall compared to the RTX 3060 Ti.
This is just one game, but I’d recommend reading the Igor’s Lab analysis of Anti-Lag and Reflex, in which it found that “Nvidia’s approach — from within the game, so to speak — to clearing the congestion in the render pipeline is not only more efficient, but much more effective” (translated from German).
Why latency matters (and how you can reduce it) Jacob Roach / Digital Trends Latency is a critical component of frame interpolation because only half of the frames you see are actually responding to your actions. Add on top of that some processing time, and your latency will theoretically go up with DLSS 3 or FSR 3 compared to running the game with the feature turned off. Especially if you’re coming from a low frame rate, where latency is already high, the overhead from generating frames can make your games feel sluggish. At least, that’s what we’ve seen with DLSS 3 up to this point.
For its part, AMD says that “FSR 3 already has latency-reducing technology that works across all GPUs.” We’ll have to wait until FSR 3 is out to see how much that actually does. On top of that, AMD is also introducing its new Anti-Lag+ feature.
This wasn’t covered at all in the FSR 3 announcement, but according to slides shared with press, AMD imagines FSR 3 working as an ecosystem of Anti-Lag+, Super Resolution, and Fluid Motion Frames. We’ve extensively tested Super Resolution, we have a good grip on what Fluid Motion Frames does, but Anti-Lag+ remains a bit of a mystery.
Here’s how AMD described it when I asked: “AMD Radeon Anti-Lag helps synchronize CPU and GPU processing during gameplay to reduce input latency. Anti-Lag’s synchronization point, however, is placed at a fixed location in the rendering pipeline. AMD Radeon Anti-Lag+ further reduces latency through intelligent synchronization placement that considers the holistic rendering pipeline. As a result, Anti-Lag+ can further reduce latency where it matters most.” AMD Like Anti-Lag, Anti-Lag+ also comes through AMD Software , which is the software suite that you get along with new GPU drivers.
 AMD says Anti-Lag+ isn’t required for FSR 3 to work, either. That’s a different approach than Nvidia has taken with DLSS 3, which forces Reflex on whenever you enable DLSS Frame Generation.
Despite being through the driver, AMD tells me that Anti-Lag+ won’t automatically work with any game. The company says “it still requires to be profiled on a per-game basis in our driver to provide the optimal experience, so it supports a select number of titles.” On top of that, Anti-Lag+ only works with AMD’s latest graphics cards like the RX 7900 XTX and RX 7900 XT.
 If you have anything older, you’ll have to stick with the regular Anti-Lag if you want to further reduce your latency in games.
From AMD’s view, Anti-Lag and Anti-Lag+ are ways to further reduce latency, not a replacement for the latency-saving benefits it says FSR 3 has — the company used “bonus latency reduction” to describe the features when I asked them. There are some obvious concerns here, though. Either FSR 3 needs to seriously reduce latency on its own, or Anti-Lag+ needs to deliver far and above what Anti-Lag current does.
An uphill battle AMD AMD is fighting an uphill battle with FSR 3. Since the original version of FSR, the company has always traded some level of image quality in order to support as many GPUs as possible, and FSR 3 continues that trend. This time around, though, AMD is also dealing with the latency issues that come up with frame interpolation.
It would be great if FSR 3’s built-in latency reduction can overcome the inherent issues, or if features like Anti-Lag and Anti-Lag+ can help push it into an acceptable latency point. But it’s not a stretch to say that the success of the feature hinges on this issue. We’ll have plenty of discussions about image quality and performance once FSR 3 is here, but if the latency isn’t in check, it doesn’t matter what the feature can deliver otherwise.
Thankfully, we don’t have to wait much longer. AMD has confirmed the feature will arrive in September in both Forspoken and Immortals of Aveum, and I’ll be sure to test it as soon as the updates drop.
Editors' Recommendations Don’t believe the hype — the era of native resolution gaming isn’t over I made an entire PC build for the price of one Nvidia GPU Windows is holding back the future of handheld gaming AMD finally announced the GPU I’ve waited months for As a pro PC builder, here are 5 building tips no one tells you Features PC Gaming ReSpec Computing Following some angry posts on Reddit, Valve has confirmed that using AMD's new Anti-Lag+ feature in Counter-Strike 2 can result in a ban. The official X/Twitter account for the game confirmed that AMD customers using Anti-Lag+ will be banned, as it tampers with the files of the game.
https://twitter.com/CounterStrike/status/1712875606776729832 Computing Monitors are getting cheaper, and that's particularly true for 4K gaming monitors. Over the past couple of years, multiple brands have launched their own stripped-back 4K gaming displays, with each driving prices down, and proper 4K gaming displays are cheaper now than they've ever been.
The price drops aren't insignificant, either. The go-to 4K gaming display over the past several years has been the LG 27GN950-B, which launched for $800. Now, you'd be overpaying if you pick one up for more than $650. Samsung's market-defining Odyssey Neo G8 launched just last year for $1,500. Now? You can buy it for $1,000 on sale.
Computing AMD's FidelityFX Super Resolution 3 is available after nearly a year of waiting. The company announced the feature around November of last year, in a swift response to Nvidia's, at the time, new Deep Learning Super Sampling 3 (DLSS 3). AMD's pitch was simple. The company was going to deliver the same performance-multiplying feature that generates frames instead of rendering them, and it would work with any graphics card.
Now it's here, and on paper, FSR 3 does exactly what AMD claimed. It's clear AMD has a lot more work to do to make FSR 3 work properly, though. And after almost a year of waiting for the feature to arrive, it's hard betting on promises for what FSR 3 could be in the future.
Where are the games? Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
