Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending in Computing: Best Dell Laptops ChatGPT Best Monitors Asus ROG Azoth Review How to delete a page in Word in 3 easy steps RTX 4080 vs RTX 4070 Ti Best Mac Apps AMD vs Intel Recall an Email in Outlook Home Computing Features With exclusive PC partnerships, everyone loses By Jacob Roach Close Image used with permission by copyright holder I’m worried. This past week, AMD announced it was the “exclusive PC partner” for the upcoming Starfield, working directly with Bethesda Game Studios to optimize the game for AMD hardware and getting AMD’s FidelityFX Super Resolution (FSR) up and running in the game (the second, much better version, to be exact).
More than a word A swift counter No excuse for exclusivity That’s not a problem. It’s a good thing. Nvidia and AMD routinely enter co-marketing arrangements with upcoming games. The company promotes the game or bundles a code with a new hardware purchase, and it usually dedicates some engineers to assist with getting features working in the game. Nvidia, for example, recently offered a copy of Diablo IV with the purchase of select RTX 40-series GPUs, and the game supports Nvidia’s latest version of Deep Learning Super Sampling (DLSS).
What’s the problem? Well, it’s the word “exclusive” that AMD used, and its lack of clarity on what that means. This isn’t throwaway phrasing. On the announcement page, AMD uses “exclusive” three times in four paragraphs of text. And the accompanying YouTube video, which you can see has twice as many dislikes as it does likes through a browser extension, uses “exclusive” in the title.
I’m not trying to nitpick, but clearly, AMD is putting weight behind being the “exclusive” PC partner of Starfield, so it shouldn’t come as a surprise that gamers are putting weight behind the word, too. And the results are clear: Speculation since the announcement has run rampant , with many assuming the game won’t support Nvidia’s DLSS or Intel’s XeSS.
Upgrade your PC or start from scratch? Here’s our definitive guide on the question Don’t believe the hype — the era of native resolution gaming isn’t over AMD’s FSR 3 will finally get a chance to shine in Starfield We don’t know if the game will exclusively use FSR 2. I’ve repeatedly reached out to AMD, but I haven’t gotten clarity on what exactly “exclusive” means. The most I’ve heard is the following: “I do not have a statement to share at this time.” It should go without saying, though, that having multiple PC options is important for a game as monumental as Starfield, marking the first time Bethesda Game Studios has released a single-player RPG in over eight years. It’s a big deal — and for all of us, it creates a problem.
More than a word Image used with permission by copyright holder Shortly before AMD’s announcement, Wcctech pointed out that several major AAA releases have implemented FSR but not DLSS. These games, including Star Wars Jedi: Survivor, The Callisto Protocol, and Dead Island 2 , have been featured as part of AMD co-marketing agreements. In the same time frame, games that have entered co-marketing agreements with Nvidia have implemented FSR at or shortly after launch.
Take your tin foil hats off for just a moment, though. There are several other reasons why some games only feature FSR (or DLSS, for that matter). Resident Evil games, for example, have only supported FSR since Resident Evil 7, so there’s definitely a world where the developers have found something that worked and ran with it. Development time is very limited in many cases , so a game lacking DLSS support doesn’t inherently mean that AMD blocked it.
And for Nvidia’s part, there are games that only support DLSS, as well.
A Plague Tale: Requiem, the Crysis trilogy, and Control are prime examples. AMD’s argument seems to be that FSR works on just about anything, while DLSS is exclusive to Nvidia RTX graphics cards. “… we believe an open approach that is broadly supported on multiple hardware platforms is the best approach that benefits developers and gamers,” the company said in a statement to Wccftech.
We have a relatively trivial wrapper around DLSS, FSR2, and XeSS. All three APIs are so similar nowadays, there&#39;s really no excuse.
&mdash; Nico van Bentum (@mempodev) June 27, 2023 That brings us back to the word “exclusive,” though. As some developers have already pointed out, the backbone of DLSS, FSR, and XeSS is largely the same, saying there’s “really no excuse” for not using all three. And some developers, such as PureDark , have begun building careers out of developing mods that implement the missing features (they’ve already promised a mod for Starfield ).
AMD’s commitment to providing an open technology has no future in a world of exclusive partnerships. At the moment, we don’t know if Starfield will only support FSR, and any claims that AMD is entering agreements to block DLSS and XeSS are just speculation. But when you stop and ask yourself what else “exclusive partnership” could mean — it certainly doesn’t sound good.
It’s a troubling sign of the times, and if feature exclusivity becomes the norm, it’ll be yet another example of fragmentation that only hurts PC gaming as a whole.
A swift counter Jacob Roach / Digital Trends Let’s look at the counterargument. The internet is, unsurprisingly, outraged by the thought of Starfield exclusively using FSR, but isn’t that what Nvidia does? After all, you can’t use DLSS on any graphics card.
 The two most popular GPUs on Steam, Nvidia’s own GTX 1060 and 1650, don’t support DLSS. But they support FSR. It can seem like a double standard when Nvidia has its own exclusive technology.
DLSS only works on RTX GPUs. That’s due to the fact that DLSS needs specific hardware, but that doesn’t matter. Nvidia developed a feature to sell new graphics cards, plain and simple. Comparing that to games exclusively using one image reconstruction feature over another isn’t an equal battle. They aren’t the same thing.
AMD could, for example, decide to make its upcoming FSR 3 exclusive to its GPUs. In that world, we have two GPU brands competing with each other on features, and it’s up to buyers and reviewers to decide which is best. In the case of Starfield, if it will indeed exclusively use FSR, there’s no competition. It’s just one company putting a roadblock in front of the other.
AMD It’s important to reiterate once again that we don’t know, with certainty, that Starfield will exclusively use FSR. The problem is AMD’s silence on the situation, allowing speculation to run wild. Nvidia, for its part, hasn’t minced words.
“Nvidia does not and will not block, restrict, discourage, or hinder developers from implementing competitor technologies in any way,” said Nvidia’s Keita Iida in a statement to Digital Trends and other outlets.
No excuse for exclusivity Jacob Roach / Digital Trends In the early days of DLSS and FSR, we saw a lot of games that supported only one of the two features. Since then, however, we (and developers) have learned just how similar the two are behind the scenes, and most major AAA releases come with at least FSR and DLSS support, and oftentimes XeSS support, as well.
Dying Light 2 and Call of Duty Modern Warfare II support all three.
Atomic Heart, which Nvidia has been promoting for nearly six years, supports DLSS and FSR (as does Dead Space ).
Diablo IV supports all three, as well, and with a really unique implementation where you’re restricted based on your hardware (DLSS for RTX, XeSS for Arc, and FSR for everything else). For a game as large as Starfield, there’s simply no excuse for only supporting one of the three.
Image used with permission by copyright holder This, on its own, isn’t a big deal. Modders will get DLSS up and running the game, regardless of if it’s officially supported or not, and I don’t think Nvidia users will have a subpar experience playing it (they can use FSR, too, after all). But it sets a bad precedent.
If AMD or Nvidia start to engage in blocking competitor tech, everyone loses. We’re now not fighting on a level playing field of competing technologies to see which is best, but instead engaging in whoever can dedicate the most time (and money) to blocking out the other. It’s not dissimilar from the shenanigans we’ve seen in the recent FTC vs. Microsoft trial, where console exclusivity deals have blocked games simply based on hardware preference and who has a larger exclusivity budget to throw around.
I hope PC isn’t headed to a similar future. I understand the need for Nvidia and AMD to enter co-marketing agreements to promote games and their products, but in a world where vendors are locked out of implementing features and providing optimized drivers for the biggest game releases, it’s a race to the bottom. And ultimately, gamers have to pay the price for that.
That, thankfully, isn’t the world we live in today. I just hope it’s not where PC gaming is headed.
This article is part of ReSpec – an ongoing biweekly column that includes discussions, advice, and in-depth reporting on the tech behind PC gaming.
Editors' Recommendations I built the best gaming PC in the world — and it wasn’t worth it I fell in love with this adorable mini gaming PC The ‘AI PC’ is coming for you, whether you like it or not I made an entire PC build for the price of one Nvidia GPU Alan Wake 2 is proof that more PC games need a potato mode Features PC Gaming ReSpec Computing Alan Wake 2 is stuffed with PC tech. It feels like one of the true next-gen games that we've seen on PC, short of remakes like Portal RTX and updates like Cyberpunk 2077. From path tracing to frame generation to AI-powered denoisers, Alan Wake 2 shows off what PC has to offer in 2023, even if that means leaving less powerful rigs behind in this dust.
Although the game itself is straightforward enough, its performance on PC is anything but. Alan Wake 2 is a stunning showcase with high-end hardware and all of the modern bells and whistles enabled, but it's a slog on lower-end machines that fall outside of its demanding minimum hardware requirements. There's good and bad here, and after spending some time with the game, we need to examine both.
Computing Hyte is challenging the status quo once again. The company, which quickly made it to the top of the list of best PC cases with its Y60, has a crazy new concept called the Y70 Touch. It's a PC case that has a built-in touchscreen, and although it's clearly a premium chassis choice, it's much more attainable than you might expect.
At $360, the Hyte Y70 Touch isn't just a premium case built exclusively for show floors. It's a real product, and although it's much more expensive than most PC cases, it's not out of the question for a high-end build.
Computing We've known for months that Alan Wake 2 will be one of the most demanding games on PC, but new details show just how taxing the upcoming title from developer Remedy will actually be. According to a now-deleted tweet from a Remedy employee, somewhere around 23% of PC players won't be able to play the game.
To be clear, the employee didn't say that number explicitly. In response to the outcry over the Alan Wake 2 system requirements, the employee shared that only cards with mesh shaders are officially supported, meaning any Nvidia 10-series or AMD RX 5000-series GPUs or older aren't officially supported.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
