Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending in Computing: Best Dell Laptops ChatGPT Best Monitors Asus ROG Azoth Review How to delete a page in Word in 3 easy steps RTX 4080 vs RTX 4070 Ti Best Mac Apps AMD vs Intel Recall an Email in Outlook Home Computing Features If AMD’s RX 7900 XTX claims are true, Nvidia could be in big trouble By Jacob Roach Close Nvidia’s recent RTX 4080 hasn’t been met with the warmest reception. It’s still the second-fastest GPU you can buy, as you can read in my RTX 4080 review , but it’s too expensive. Many prospective PC builders are holding on to their cash until AMD releases its RX 7900 XTX and RX 7900 XT in December.
What AMD says The results Should you wait for the RX 7900 XTX? AMD is looking to go toe-to-toe with the RTX 4080 , all while offering its flagship cards for a few hundred dollars less than Nvidia is asking. We won’t know for sure if AMD can compete until the cards are here, but with the RTX 4080 now in-hand, we can start to sketch out a picture.
And the situation isn’t looking pretty for Nvidia.
I bought Nvidia’s worst-value GPU, but I don’t regret it Nvidia gave AMD’s RX 7800 XT a free win I wanted to try AMD, but it’s making it hard for me to switch What AMD says Image used with permission by copyright holder I need to put a vital disclaimer up ront. We don’t have the AMD RX 7900 XTX or RX 7900 XT yet, and we won’t know how the cards perform until they’re released on December 13. All we have to go on are two slides of benchmarks AMD recently shared. I don’t have any reason to believe they’re inaccurate, but at the very least, it’s best to assume AMD chose the numbers that paint its product in the best light.
All of that is to say that I’m inferring here, not prophesying.
With that out of the way, you can see the numbers that AMD shared for rasterized and ray tracing performance above. Using the disclaimers at the end of the slides, I tried to recreate AMD’s test configuration with the RTX 4080 instead of the two new RX 7000 GPUs. Here’s what I landed on: AMD Ryzen 9 7900X 32GB Corsair Vengeance DDR5-6000 1TB Corsair MP400 NVMe SSD Gigabyte Aorus Master X670E motherboard Windows 11 22H2 Corsair H150i all-in-one liquid cooler There are a lot of question marks that AMD didn’t clarify in its testing, like if Resizable BAR was turned on and what game versions it was using. In place of that, I followed all of the procedures I normally do for GPU reviews. I kept Resizeable BAR turned on and stuck with the latest updates across drivers, games, and Windows.
Jacob Roach / Digital Trends I benchmarked the RTX 4080 in the titles AMD shared with this test bench. Critically, I only tested the games that have a built-in benchmark to make my results as comparable as possible. I have no clue what areas AMD tested in Dying Light 2 and Resident Evil Village, so I omitted them.
Although the RTX 4080 only takes a back seat to the RTX 4090 in performance right now, that could change very soon. Based on the results I gathered, AMD’s cards could outright beat the RTX 4080 at a lower price.
The results Image used with permission by copyright holder AMD labels its charts with “max settings,” so I used the highest preset available in each of the games I tested. AMD’s new cards could cause an upset based on my results, with the RX 7900 XTX showing a consistent lead and the RX 7900 XT being very close behind.
In Watch Dogs: Legion, the RTX 4080 was just a hair faster than than the RX 7900 XT, but AMD’s data shows the RX 7900 XTX nearly 14% ahead.
Smart Access Memory (SAM) could play a small role in boosting the RX 7900 XTX up here, though the differences are slim to none at 4K.
Similarly, AMD’s numbers show the RX 7900 XTX around 18% faster than the RTX 4080 in Cyberpunk 2077, with Nvidia’s card squeezing out a single-frame lead over the RX 7900 XT.
Call of Duty Modern Warfare 2 is where both the RX 7900 XTX and RX 7900 XT show a large lead (upwards of 38%!). Although impressive, Modern Warfare 2 massively favors AMD’s recent GPUs, so this game is probably an exception.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Things change in the ray tracing department. AMD was significantly behind Nvidia with ray tracing in the previous generation. The RX 7900 XT and RX 7900 XTX promise improvements, but it seems Nvidia will maintain its dominating position.
My RTX 4080 results are 66% ahead of the RX 7900 XT and 43% ahead of the RX 7900 XTX numbers AMD shared in Cyberpunk 2077.
 I tested with upscaling turned off because higher base performance will inevitably lead to higher upscaled performance. With Nvidia’s Deep Learning Super Sampling (DLSS) , the RTX 4080 reached over 80 frames per second (fps), outpacing AMD’s numbers with FidelityFX Super Resolution (FSR) by around 40%.
For Hitman 3 with ray tracing , AMD didn’t clarify if it ran the Dartmoor or Dubai benchmark, so I ran both. Nvidia is ahead in both cases, but the question is still up in the air if the RTX 4080 is edging out a marginal victory or a commanding lead.
Should you wait for the RX 7900 XTX? Image used with permission by copyright holder Nvidia has a pricing problem right now, not a performance problem. The RTX 4080 is still one of the best graphics cards you can buy, and if it were replacing the $700 RTX 3080 at anywhere near the same price, it would wipe the floor with the RX 7900 XTX and RX 7900 XT. But at $1,200, that’s not the case.
We still need to wait to test the RX 7900 XTX and RX 7900 XT, but unless AMD’s numbers are off by 15% or more, it’s hard to see the RTX 4080 claiming a performance victory. Assuming AMD’s numbers are accurate, we could see performance parity between the RTX 4080 and RX 7900 XT, and even a performance lead for the RX 7900 XTX while costing $200 less.
Rasterized performance isn’t all that matters. It seems Nvidia will still claim the crown in ray tracing, and features like DLSS 3 are ahead of what AMD is currently offering (even if DLSS 3 isn’t perfect ). With a $200 gap and a performance deficit for the RTX 4080, though, AMD’s RX 7900 XTX could prompt some longtime Nvidia users to switch over to AMD.
All eyes are on December 13 for now. We’ll have a clear view of performance then, but even with this cursory look, AMD’s next-gen GPUs look mighty impressive.
This article is part of ReSpec – an ongoing biweekly column that includes discussions, advice, and in-depth reporting on the tech behind PC gaming.
Editors' Recommendations Someone tweaked AMD’s RX 7800 XT, and the results may surprise you Nvidia’s RTX 4070 is seeing big price cuts in response to AMD AMD’s next GPU just leaked, and it could give Nvidia trouble AMD might crush Nvidia with its laptop GPUs — but it’s silent on the desktop front AMD is letting Nvidia win, and it needs to step it up before it’s too late Features ReSpec Computing Despite the fact that the RTX 4070 Ti has been reviewed poorly, Nvidia's latest GPU seems to be doing well in terms of sales numbers -- at least as far as the European market is concerned.
According to newly published sales figures, Nvidia managed to sell a huge quantity of RTX 4070 Ti GPUs. It effortlessly defeated its biggest rival, AMD, even though the AMD RX 7900 XT is the better value. Regardless of how it's reviewed, the RTX 4070 Ti seems to be the king of all the new graphics cards that have out in 2023 so far.
Computing When AMD released the RX 7900 XTX and the RX 7900 XT, it was clear which of the two would be stealing the spotlight. The RX 7900 XTX is a solid GPU, and its weaker sibling is very much overshadowed by it. However, now that Nvidia launched its RTX 4070 Ti, there's hope yet for AMD.
It might sound strange, but Nvidia may have actually done AMD a huge favor by releasing the RTX 4070 Ti the way it did.
AMD's RX 7900 XT is one odd GPU Computing It’s been known for some time that AMD’s RX 7900 XTX graphics cards are prone to overheating, and previous reporting has highlighted that the problem is bad enough to cause some serious throttling. Now, we might know exactly what is causing the problem -- and it’s bad news for AMD users.
That’s because noted tech expert Igor Wallossek of Igor’s Lab has published an investigation offering up his own analysis. After reaching out to various industry sources, Wallossek believes the problem lies with the 7900 XTX’s vapor chamber.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
