Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Split Screen in Windows 11 Windows 11 Requirements Get Windows 11 for Free Screenshot on Windows 11 Uninstall Windows 11 Android Apps on Windows 11 Home Computing Features Are Windows 11 security features killing your gaming performance? You might be surprised By Jacob Roach Close Microsoft resurrected a controversial topic in the PC gaming community recently: Windows 11’s security features. Days after Windows 11 launched, there was an outcry among PC gamers due to a security feature that is enabled by default in Windows 11. In particular, Virtualization Based Security or VBS.
No, VBS isn’t killing your gaming performance What is VBS anyway? Not a concern for most PCGamer cried foul after it noticed a 28% drop in Shadow of the Tomb Raider, but Windows 11 , at the time, was experiencing gaming performance drops of 15% or more in some cases , so the results didn’t sound out of order.
But even with many of those initial results debunked near launch, there remains there’s a lot of suspicion around using VBS that I wanted to prove with my own testing.
Image used with permission by copyright holder No, VBS isn’t killing your gaming performance I’ll dig into the “why” later, but let’s get my results out of the way up front. I tested with Intel’s new Core i5-13600K and an RTX 3060 Ti. The Raptor Lake chip is too new to be available in loads of systems, but as you can read in my Core i9-13900K and Core i5-13600K review , it’s not much faster in games compared to the i5 of the previous generation.
Image used with permission by copyright holder And behold — three frames, or just less than a 3% jump if you turn off both security features Microsoft references in its support article. Granted, this is just one configuration, but I tested six titles at 1080p and most results aren’t even worth reporting. Even the 1% low frame rate isn’t worth noting, barely moving at all between my tests.
Windows is holding back the future of handheld gaming This ‘Swiss Army Knife’ app transformed how I play PC games The success of AMD’s FSR 3 hinges on this one feature Out of the six games I tested, Assassin’s Creed Valhalla returned the biggest difference: a whopping 4.5% jump with the security features disabled.
Uncharted: Legacy of Thieves similarly only saw a 2.8% boost, while Far Cry 6 returned a 1.8% increase.
Gears Tactics showed a 4.6% increase, but oddly, my highest result was recorded with just HVCI turned off.
Keep in mind these are my results with the largest differences.
Shadow of the Tomb Raider and Cyberpunk 2077 only saw a single frame of difference at most.
Previous Next 1 4 Image used with permission by copyright holder Image used with permission by copyright holder Image used with permission by copyright holder Image used with permission by copyright holder But so what? A performance increase is a performance increase, right? Although it’s tempting to turn off these features, even if it only represents a minor performance jump in some games, the reality is that VBS serves an important function. In most cases, the default settings that are on your Windows installation are the best ones to stick with.
What is VBS anyway? Microsoft’s support article provides instructions to turn off Memory Integrity and Virtual Machine Platform (VMP). VBS has become the poster child for Windows 11 security, but it’s an umbrella term that enables several other security features in Windows 11.
 Hypervisor-Enforced Code Integrity (HVCI) is the main feature in question that’s enabled by VBS. HVCI and Memory Integrity are the same things.
Image used with permission by copyright holder VBS steals a bit of memory from Windows and isolates it from the operating system. This environment can host features like HVCI that verify drivers as they’re loaded into memory. It also can verify code integrity as you load applications, ensuring that malicious apps can’t stuff some code beneath the operating system. VMP is a framework that enables virtualization, and turning it off disables VBS on the system.
That’s a lot of acronyms, so for clarity: VMP turns off VBS, and HVCI and Memory Integrity are the same things.
VBS, or more specifically HVCI, has a minimal impact on modern processors because they support Mode-Based Execution Control (MBEC).
As Microsoft explains , processors older than Intel 7th-gen and AMD Zen 2 run an emulation of MBEC instead of through hardware, reducing performance. Older processors will see reduced performance in some games (ComputerBase showed around 10% at most through some testing with a Ryzen 7 1800X ), but not by anywhere near 28%.
It’s important to discern between a measurable difference and an appreciable difference with any benchmark.
MBEC counteracts the performance deficiency brought on by the various security features enabled by VBS. In addition, larger, faster DDR5 memory can further reduce the penalty brought on by features like HVCI, dropping a small performance gap of around 5% to even lower points. This is all highly dependent on the game, too. The performance impact brought on by VBS and HVCI is focused around your CPU and memory, not your GPU — and as I’ve previously written about, CPU performance in games is a complex beast.
When dissecting gaming benchmarks, it’s important to discern between a measurable difference and an appreciable difference. If you look at Assassin’s Creed Valhalla and see a 4.5% gap with VBS, that’s a measurable difference. The five frames it represents is not an appreciable difference. As I wrote about with how misleading GPU benchmarks can be, the actual experience of playing a game rarely hinges on a few frames.
Not a concern for most Arif Bacchus / Digital Trends / Digital Trends The VBS discussion is about a year old at this point, but Microsoft brought it back into focus with its support article. The article isn’t wrong, but it shouldn’t concern you, either. Fresh installs of Windows 11 don’t have HVCI enabled by default, just VBS. My data suggest HVCI represents the bulk of performance drops (though some other benchmarks suggest VBS overall plays a role, as well).
Desktops you buy off the shelf may come with HVCI disabled, as well, particularly if they’re focused on gaming.
Laptops , on the other hand, will most likely have HVCI turned on. And that’s a good thing with login methods like a fingerprint reader on laptops.
 As Microsoft’s Jeremy Chapman showed near Windows 11 ’s launch, the lack of HVCI allows things as ridiculous as using a gummy bear to authenticate a fingerprint scanner.
VBS should be low on the list of priorities when trying to squeeze out extra performance from your PC.
If your gaming PC isn’t performing at the level you want, it’s worth investigating different ways you can squeeze out extra performance without just buying new hardware. But VBS should be low on that list of priorities, even in Windows 11.
Some data shows that certain Ryzen 7000 processors can see around a 15% drop in gaming performance due to how the OS handles multi-threading. That’s a much more significant issue to investigate than the thin margins VBS can represent.
Microsoft recognizes this fact in its support article: “In some scenarios and some configurations of gaming devices there may be a performance impact.” Those scenarios and configurations are few and far between. If you want the best performance out of your gaming PC , read our guide on how to optimize Windows 11 for gaming before messing with VBS. You’ll likely see a much bigger improvement.
This article is part of ReSpec – an ongoing biweekly column that includes discussions, advice, and in-depth reporting on the tech behind PC gaming.
Editors' Recommendations Don’t believe the hype — the era of native resolution gaming isn’t over This simple keyboard shortcut could save you when installing Windows 11 Is a game poorly optimized, or just demanding? They’re not the same thing Why I leave Nvidia’s game-changing tech off in most games This upcoming Windows 11 feature lets you switch to a cloud PC in seconds Cybersecurity Features Microsoft Microsoft Windows PC Gaming ReSpec Software Windows 11 Computing Everyone owes Sony an apology. When the PS5 was announced and Ratchet and Clank: Rift Apart was shown off as exclusive for the platform, there was a barrage of finger-pointing at Sony over the game's next-gen exclusive status. The argument from Sony was that the game required the PS5's world-class storage interface, and anything less simply wouldn't work.
Now that the game is available on PC, I can see exactly what Sony was referencing. As you can see from Digital Foundry's first look at the game, it simply doesn't work on the PS4's slow, 5,400RPM hard drive.
Computing Windows 11 is finally creating a solution for the multitude of RGB apps that clutter most gaming PCs. The long-rumored feature is with Windows Insiders now through Build 23475, which Windows announced in a blog post on Wednesday.
The feature, called Dynamic Lighting, looks to unify all of the different apps and devices that use RGB lighting so you don't have to bounce between several different apps. More importantly, Microsoft is doing so through the open HID LampArray standard, which makes it compatible with a long list of devices. Microsoft says it already has partnerships with Acer, Asus, HP, HyperX, Logitech, Razer, and Twinkly to support Dynamic Lighting.
Computing The death of PC gaming. That's been the topic at hand for the past several weeks, with port after port after port arriving on PC in disastrous states. PC gaming isn't dead, but if this trend continues, it's hard to recommend picking up any new release on PC, at least before it receives a string of inevitable patches.
I wish I could provide a single solution for the problems PC games face, but I can't. The list is massive. But there's one area of focus that could help the situation a lot, and it's where consoles still have a lead over PC.
The source of stutter These frame time spikes manifest as severe stutters in Gotham Knights. Image used with permission by copyright holder Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
