Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending in Computing: Best Dell Laptops ChatGPT Best Monitors Asus ROG Azoth Review How to delete a page in Word in 3 easy steps RTX 4080 vs RTX 4070 Ti Best Mac Apps AMD vs Intel Recall an Email in Outlook Home Computing Features I asked developers to explain why PC ports in 2023 run like garbage By Jacob Roach Close Image used with permission by copyright holder When looking at the state of PC releases in 2023, it’s easy to start pointing fingers. The game isn’t optimized (whatever that means), or the publisher rushed it out too quickly, or the graphics cards Nvidia has been selling us come with too little VRAM.
 But these accusations, in most cases, are half-baked and presumptuous, and although they hint at reality, they don’t tell the full story.
What’s the problem? What you can do right The way forward for PC ports I wanted to know what was actually going on, so I sat down with a few developers to understand the state of PC games and why so many releases have arrived with such big problems. More importantly, I wanted to know what developers and publishers could do to solve these issues, and although the path forward isn’t clear, it’s becoming obvious that developers know there’s a problem.
What’s the problem? Jacob Roach / Digital Trends First, we need to identify the core issue with the PC, especially when games ship in playable (if not perfect) states on consoles but arrive horrendously broken on PC. At a high level, the problem with the PC as a platform is exactly what makes it so enticing in the first place: flexibility.
This ‘Swiss Army Knife’ app transformed how I play PC games I tried to relive the forgotten legacy of Halo as a Mac franchise — and it was a disaster The worst PC ports of all time — and why they were so bad Marc Whitten, senior vice president and general manager of Unity Create, says that “the sheer diversity and variability of PC configurations that games will be played on … can definitely expose unexpected issues.” Whitten also points to “different operating systems and new driver updates, heat and latency, and user customization” as factors that can play into the problem.
That’s the answer, I’m sure, that most people assume is the explanation.
But the issue, according to Whitten, is not a lack of testing itself. He asserts that games are “generally tested extensively throughout development.” The problem comes down to the scale of different configurations that developers need to test, as well as variables they can’t account for.
As a thought experiment, let’s say a developer pinned down 100 different PC configurations to test, varying the CPU, GPU, RAM , and hard drive between them. For the record, this is a number I’m just pulling out, not something a developer actually referenced as a realistic goal. Now, take all of those configurations and multiply it by dozens of additional factors: What OS are you using? What version of that OS? How about the driver version? What BIOS settings are enabled? Do you have any software running in the background like Razer Synapse or Corsair iCue? Jacob Roach / Digital Trends The scope of possible configurations goes far beyond just what CPU and GPU you have in your system, and these factors can easily multiply into tens of thousands of scenarios that developers simply can’t account for. In an ideal world, developers can fix the biggest problems for the most popular PC configurations with the newest driver and OS updates, leaving only small, specific issues to address after launch.
Whitten isn’t alone in this sentiment, either. John Johanas, game director of Hi-Fi Rush and The Evil Within 2, says that “it’s pretty unrealistic to think that you can make a product that will run flawlessly on what feels like an unlimited configuration of CPUs, GPUs, memory, and more likely, what is running in the background.” Hideyuki Miyashita, systems programmer on Hi-Fi Rush, agreed, but specifically pointed to the cost of optimizing a game for every possible configuration: “In terms of PC performance, making each graphics feature scalable for different configurations would be ideal; however, development costs put an upper ceiling on realistic scalability support.” This isn’t a new story. The large swath of PC configurations is the common culprit in everything from how difficult it is to optimize games on PC to why we haven’t seen Xbox’s Quick Resume show up in Windows.
 The question is what developers can do despite the limited time and money they have. Because PCs aren’t getting any simpler, and games are still arriving on the platform broken.
What you can do right Respawn Entertainment / EA We have a lot of examples of games doing PC support wrong this year. One prime example is Star Wars Jedi: Survivor , which currently sits at a “Mixed” review status on Steam despite being one of the most widely acclaimed games of the year. The top review reads: “A single crash corrupted my 140-hour 99.8% NG+ save file.” Yikes.
I reached out to the development team to get an idea about what went wrong, and although they were initially receptive, EA stepped in and stopped returning my emails. So, instead of looking at what games do wrong on PC, we need to look at what developers do right.
Hi-Fi Rush is a prime case study. It’s a new game from a AAA studio, and it uses the infamous Unreal Engine 4. You might think it’s comparing apple to oranges between Hi-Fi Rush and a game like Star Wars Jedi: Survivor, but they have more in common than you might suspect. As Johanas points out, “… the fact that the game has a cartoon aesthetic will give some users a perception that the game shouldn’t be a problem to run on anyone’s PC. Realistically, the game does a lot of things to achieve the look we went for and the constantly moving world that is very taxing … I knew that going in and made sure we tried to hit those expectations.” Bethesda Setting that goal from the start seemed important to Hi-Fi Rush ‘s stability. The developers note that it was a design goal from the beginning to maintain at least 60 frames per second (fps) due to the fact that it’s both a rhythm game and an action game, where falling short of that mark would cause “hiccups [that] could result in a desync from music and a perceived poor gameplay experience,” according to Johanas.
How did the team at Tango Gameworks pull it off? It widely boils down to three main points: careful VRAM monitoring, asynchronous operations, and PSO caching.
According to Kosuke Tanaka, lead graphics programmer for Hi-Fi Rush, the team monitored VRAM usage throughout every step of development. That includes monitoring each level, of course, but also each art section’s VRAM usage, asking artists to lower texture or mesh memory usage to fit within the game’s budget. This isn’t uncommon in game development, either.
What works in Hi-Fi Rush ‘s favor is its strong artistic direction. As Tanaka points out: “Our art style helped us a bit because we don’t require traditional PBR textures such as normal maps, roughness maps, or metallic maps.” It’s a testament to working with creative limitations, and how that can influence the stability of the final product. Johanas says that it wasn’t a matter of a smaller scope — it was a matter of having “no need to go big for no reason.” I asked the team what it learned from Hi-Fi Rush that it could carry into larger, wider projects, but that’s not exactly how Tango is taking lessons from the game. In fact, the development team told me it learned much more about optimization from Ghostwire: Tokyo, which fits into more of the traditional AAA mold, and it carried those ideas into Hi-Fi Rush, not the other way around.
Ghostwire: Tokyo is an early showcase of Unreal Engine’s TSR, which is very similar to FSR 2.0.
Image used with permission by copyright holder “We learned a lot of our knowledge about how to deal with in-game stuttering in Hi-Fi Rush from our experience optimizing Ghostwire: Tokyo ,” Miyashita told me. A big part of that was Pipeline State Object(PSO) caching.
 This is a feature available in Unreal Engine 4 that helps reduce stuttering by precompiling shaders before you run the game.
The main problem is that Unreal Engine 4 doesn’t do this automatically, leading to situations where the shaders need to compile while you’re playing the game, which causes a stutter. Miyashita says “this resulted in some post processes and VFX to cause stuttering.” The programmer also says that PSO caching is optional, so it needs to be a specific focus for the developer.
Caching doesn’t solve every issue, though, and that’s where asynchronous operations come in. The Hi-Fi Rush team used asynchronous compilation — where shaders are compiled separately from the game thread — but it was also a big focus considering the game ran on Unreal Engine 4.
As we’ve seen with other Unreal Engine 4 games like Star Wars Jedi: Survivor and Redfall, the engine isn’t very good about scaling to the many threads available on modern CPUs. As Miyashita explains: “How difficult supporting multi-threading can be is highly dependent on the used engine’s architecture. Unfortunately, UE4 falls a bit short in this respect.” In particular, Unreal Engine 4, according to the developer, places actor (objects/characters) and widget (UI and overlay) creation on the same CPU thread as the game. That means that whenever the game wants to, for example, load a new character in, it takes priority on the thread. Miyashita says “this can result in complex actor and widget creation blocking the game thread for a long time.” That’s a stutter.
The solution is asynchronous operations. Miyashita says the team uses analysis tools to pinpoint what the CPU is doing as objects are brought in, and that they make an effort to move those tasks to different threads so the game doesn’t slow down. This specific targeting can help with resource loading as well. Moving those operations into a parallel structure can avoid the pitfalls of streaming stutter present in games like Dead Space.
The way forward for PC ports Image used with permission by copyright holder The games that are coming out in disastrous states today began their development years ago, so although I’m hopeful that PC releases will improve as the year continues, it may be several years before we see these core issues addressed.
Whitten says that “developers are as concerned about performance as players,” and that’s a sentiment I’ve heard several times. There are ways to optimize PC releases, from pre-caching shaders to asynchronous operations to validation on a wide variety of hardware. But the reality is that developers can’t account for everything, due to time or money, and usually both.
The way forward here is simple. First, let the publishers of these games know that you’d rather see a delay than a broken game. Shouting at developers won’t do much — they already know the problem, and they’d probably like it solved just as much you. Second, be cautious about picking up a new PC game on release day. It’s hard being patient when you’re looking forward to something (believe me, I know), but waiting to buy a game until the issues have been fixed sends a strong signal to publishers to invest more time and resources into making sure games are polished on PC.
It’s easy to forget that this is still uncharted territory. Now more than ever, games are arriving on PC the same day they arrive on consoles, much unlike a few years ago where PC ports arrived months (or even years) later. Two console generations ago, most games only shipped on the same day to one platform; in the previous generation, it was two. Now, developers are expected to ship to three platforms at minimum on the same day, and sometimes upwards of five if they have a last-gen version.
It’s not hard to see why there are issues on PC given that context, but hopefully more polished releases are on the way.
This article is part of ReSpec – an ongoing biweekly column that includes discussions, advice, and in-depth reporting on the tech behind PC gaming.
Editors' Recommendations I can’t get excited about AMD’s next version of FSR anymore Why I leave Nvidia’s game-changing tech off in most games With exclusive PC partnerships, everyone loses Consoles still have one big advantage, and it’s hurting PC gaming Star Wars Jedi: Survivor is being review-bombed on Steam as a ‘total crap’ PC port Features PC Gaming ReSpec Computing It's difficult for small game developers to make an impact in 2023, but Unrecord, a bodycam-style first-person shooter developed by the French game studio Drama, took the internet by storm over the past week. The first gameplay demo looked impossibly realistic, so much so that hundreds of heated opinions were quick to call the trailer fake.
It's not, as proved by in-engine footage showcased by one of the developers. But it's still hard to believe just how realistic Unrecord looks, and there's a very good reason for that.
Hiding imperfections https://twitter.com/esankiy/status/1648717946477314048 Computing During its State of Unreal address at GDC 2023, Epic announced a wide-ranging suite of features for Unreal Engine 5.2. But perhaps the most important feature coming in the updated engine doesn't relate to lighting, geometry detail, or ray tracing. It's all about performance.
Unreal Engine games, rightly or wrongly, have been associated with stuttering and hitches over the past few years. With the new release, Epic is finally tackling the problem head-on, so I thought it was high time to break down why Unreal games so commonly show stutter, what Epic is doing to solve the problem, and when we can expect to see those efforts show up in new releases.
Remember the stutter These frame time spikes manifest as severe stutters in Gotham Knights. Image used with permission by copyright holder Computing The tech community has been oversaturated with AI this past week, from ChatGPT to Google Bard, but not without reason. We see fads like NFTs and web3 come and go, but AI is here to stay -- even in your PC games.
It's not all doom and gloom, though. AI and machine learning has already proven itself wildly useful in PC gaming, and it has far-reaching implications for how games are made and experienced. I'm not trying to fit a square peg into a round hole here -- and if you stick with me, you'll see why.
How it's being used now Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
