Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending in Computing: Best Dell Laptops ChatGPT Best Monitors Asus ROG Azoth Review How to delete a page in Word in 3 easy steps RTX 4080 vs RTX 4070 Ti Best Mac Apps AMD vs Intel Recall an Email in Outlook Home Computing Features These are the best 2022 games to test your PC with — and which to avoid By Jacob Roach Close 2022 was a big year for PC game releases, for better and worse. We saw remarkable achievements in fidelity in titles like Dying Light 2, but also fundamentally broken PC ports like Gotham Knights.
As 2022 closes out, I wanted to take a look back at the best and worst PC games we saw in the past year.
Best: Portal RTX Worst: Gotham Knights Best: Uncharted Legacy of Thieves Collection Worst: Warhammer 40,000 Darktide Best: Marvel’s Spider-Man (and Miles Morales) Worst: Stray/Elden Ring PC ports in 2023 Keep in mind that ReSpec is a technical column — I’m focused on the technical aspects of PC releases, not necessarily my favorite games overall.
Elden Ring, for example, won our best games of 2022 roundup, and it’s a personal favorite. But it doesn’t show up in this list in quite the same light.
Best: Portal RTX Image used with permission by copyright holder Portal RTX is an insanely demanding game , and I debated putting it on this list due to how few people can actually play it. But if nothing else, Portal RTX is a wonderful showcase of Nvidia’s RTX Remix modding toolkit and how ray tracing can work to redefine the look and feel of the game.
Windows is holding back the future of handheld gaming Is a game poorly optimized, or just demanding? They’re not the same thing It’s time to stop trying to play games without an SSD We’re far past the days of Quake II RTX where some over-saturated lighting and distracting reflections were the best showcases of ray tracing we had. Physically-based materials, more efficient path tracing techniques, upscaling, and frame generation all worked into bringing more realistic lighting into games, and Portal RTX is our first showcase of the power those techniques can have.
I’m particularly excited about what it means for RTX Remix in the future. Modders have already put out versions of Max Payne, Half-Life, and SWAT 4 revitalized through RTX Remix, and they all look incredible. I’ll be taking a closer look at these games (and hopefully more) in the future.
Worst: Gotham Knights Image used with permission by copyright holder Gotham Knights is on the opposite end — it’s an ugly look into the past. In the vein of the infamous Arkham Knight PC port, Gotham Knights shipped on PC with massive stuttering issues paired with lackluster ray-tracing options. Even with a bevy of upscaling features on tap, Gotham Knights can’t maintain a stable frame rate.
It doesn’t help that the game looks dated, as well. It was originally designed with last-gen consoles in mind before the publisher decided to pull the plug, but it fails to live up to even that standard. Shortly after launch, a flood of images comparing the graphical fidelity of the game to 2015’s Arkham Knight started flowing out (and spoiler: Arkham Knight won that battle).
Personally, this one hit hard. Even with some issues that you can read about in our Got ham Knights review , I was excited to play the game. I can’t bear the overwhelming stuttering, though, which hasn’t been fixed even months after launch. It’s worse than Elden Ring’ s stuttering and any other game I’ve played this year, and I don’t see the issue getting resolved any time soon. Just recently, a patch for Gotham Knights actually rendered the game unplayable on Steam.
 Yikes.
Best: Uncharted Legacy of Thieves Collection Jacob Roach / Digital Trends Uncharted Legacy of Thieves Collection is a prime example of how to do a PC port right. Rock-solid performance, a wide breadth of graphics options, and pre-compiled shaders make it a smooth experience on basically any rig — and a long-overdue debut for Nathan Drake on PC.
PlayStation has knocked it out of the park with all of its PC releases, but Uncharted is toned down compared to God of War and Marvel’s Spider-Man.
You’ll find some enhanced textures, but the original console release is mostly intact. Instead, the port focuses on stability by compiling shaders in the menu to avoid stuttering and providing upscaling for any GPU in the form of FidelityFX Super Resolution (FSR) 2 and Nvidia’s Deep Learning Super Sampling (DLSS).
The only downside is the install size.
Uncharted Legacy of Thieves Collection requires 126GB of space (after everything is done, it’s around 113GB, but we’re splitting hairs here), and a lot of that size comes on the back of the enhanced textures. 100GB+ installs are common on PC with these high-resolution assets, but games like Far Cry 6 allow you to skip the higher-resolution assets for a smaller install size, which I would’ve liked to see in Uncharted.
Still, if all I can complain about is the install size for a PC game released in 2022, that’s a very good thing.
Worst: Warhammer 40,000 Darktide Image used with permission by copyright holder I’ll admit, Warhammer 40,000 Darktide is one of my personal favorite games of 2022, but that’s despite its truckload of technical issues. A lengthy and bug-filled beta period led to an even more broken release at launch, which featured constant network disconnects, game-breaking crashes due to ray tracing, and myriad visual errors.
Some examples: Turning off the nebulous and over-demanding sub-surface scattering setting meant that skin simply wouldn’t render on characters; turning on DLSS to improve ray tracing performance would crash the game; and lens flares could cause a massive reduction in frame rate, which is one of many settings that can create a nasty CPU bottleneck in the game.
Since launch, developer Fat Shark has continued to improve the game, and it’s in a much better place now. There’s no denying the tumultuous launch state of the game, though, which is disappointing considering it was one of only a few new titles released with DLSS 3, rather than backported to older releases.
Best: Marvel’s Spider-Man (and Miles Morales) Image used with permission by copyright holder Marvel’s Spider-Man and Miles Morales took a different approach to Sony’s PC ports, leaning heavier on PC tech rather than stable performance. They’re both stable games, but they’re also packed with ray tracing, a slew of upscaling options, and tech like Deep Learning Anti-Aliasing (DLAA) and DLSS Frame Generation.
Ray tracing looks fantastic in Marvel’s Spider-Man, and it allows you to push reflection and shadows beyond what’s available on the PlayStation 5.
Miles Morales is particularly impressive with DLSS 3, even if the AI-generated frames don’t always look perfect.
Now that Spider-Man 2 is announced for next year on PlayStation 5, I can only hope we see it on PC. If these first two releases are anything to go by, the second game will hopefully shine even more on a high-end gaming rig.
Worst: Stray/Elden Ring Jacob Roach / Digital Trends I’m grouping Stray and Elden Ring here because they both had the same issue: shader compilation stuttering.
Elden Ring has been patched into a much better state, as has Stray, but they both launched with consistent stuttering on PC due to shaders compiling on the GPU.
This is mainly a problem with Unreal Engine, as you can see from Gotham Knights.
That said, Elden Ring uses a custom engine, showing that it can impact games engines, as well. The shaders (programs) need to move to your GPU before they can execute, causing a slowdown whenever new shaders are introduced.
The good news for these two releases is that they’re playable now, much unlike Gotham Knights.
Still, it’s disappointing to see such severe stutters in two games that were widely considered among the best of the year.
PC ports in 2023 Looking forward to 2023, I’m hopeful that the days of shader compilation stuttering and borked PC ports are behind us.
Fortnite ‘s transition to Unreal Engine 5 shows a bright future for the massive number of titles that use Unreal. On the other end, we’re still seeing the next-gen Witcher 3 update and titles like The Callisto Protocol release in devastating states.
On the plus side, more PC releases are embracing technologies like FSR, DLSS, Frame Generation, and latency-reduction tools like Reflex, helping games that are optimized on the engine side run more smoothly. I’m sure in 2023 we’ll see even more progress on that front.
This article is part of ReSpec – an ongoing biweekly column that includes discussions, advice, and in-depth reporting on the tech behind PC gaming.
Editors' Recommendations Don’t believe the hype — the era of native resolution gaming isn’t over This ‘Swiss Army Knife’ app transformed how I play PC games Why I leave Nvidia’s game-changing tech off in most games I tested Nvidia’s new RTX feature, and it fixed the worst part of PC gaming With exclusive PC partnerships, everyone loses Comic Book Movies Features Marvel PC Gaming ReSpec Computing When looking at the state of PC releases in 2023, it's easy to start pointing fingers. The game isn't optimized (whatever that means), or the publisher rushed it out too quickly, or the graphics cards Nvidia has been selling us come with too little VRAM. But these accusations, in most cases, are half-baked and presumptuous, and although they hint at reality, they don't tell the full story.
I wanted to know what was actually going on, so I sat down with a few developers to understand the state of PC games and why so many releases have arrived with such big problems. More importantly, I wanted to know what developers and publishers could do to solve these issues, and although the path forward isn't clear, it's becoming obvious that developers know there's a problem.
What's the problem? Computing It's been a bad year for PC ports so far, but it's easy to forget that PCs have never been the premier platform for game releases. There's a storied history of terrible PC ports, and although we're still seeing some big problems today, the games releasing now are a far cry from what we've seen in years past.
I figured it was a good time to look back at some of the worst PC ports we've seen. This isn't an exhaustive list -- there are dozens of games that have released broken on PC -- but these are the worst offenders. In some areas, we've made a ton of progress, and in others, unfortunately not so much.
Batman Arkham Knight Computing The death of PC gaming. That's been the topic at hand for the past several weeks, with port after port after port arriving on PC in disastrous states. PC gaming isn't dead, but if this trend continues, it's hard to recommend picking up any new release on PC, at least before it receives a string of inevitable patches.
I wish I could provide a single solution for the problems PC games face, but I can't. The list is massive. But there's one area of focus that could help the situation a lot, and it's where consoles still have a lead over PC.
The source of stutter These frame time spikes manifest as severe stutters in Gotham Knights. Image used with permission by copyright holder Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
