Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending in Computing: Best Dell Laptops ChatGPT Best Monitors Asus ROG Azoth Review How to delete a page in Word in 3 easy steps RTX 4080 vs RTX 4070 Ti Best Mac Apps AMD vs Intel Recall an Email in Outlook Home Computing Features I can’t get excited about AMD’s next version of FSR anymore By Jacob Roach Close Image used with permission by copyright holder AMD’s FidelityFX Super Resolution 3 is available after nearly a year of waiting. The company announced the feature around November of last year, in a swift response to Nvidia’s, at the time, new Deep Learning Super Sampling 3 ( DLSS 3 ). AMD’s pitch was simple. The company was going to deliver the same performance-multiplying feature that generates frames instead of rendering them, and it would work with any graphics card.
Where are the games? The compromise Hurry up and wait Now it’s here, and on paper, FSR 3 does exactly what AMD claimed. It’s clear AMD has a lot more work to do to make FSR 3 work properly, though. And after almost a year of waiting for the feature to arrive, it’s hard betting on promises for what FSR 3 could be in the future.
Where are the games? EA There are so many great games for FSR 3 to debut in.
AMD launched the feature in two games that were released this year: Forspoken and Immortals of Aveum.
Both launched to a critical and commercial “meh” from the gaming community.
Forspoken saw some attention at launch, in an otherwise dull time of the year, while Immortals of Aveum never reached above a peak player count of 1,000 on Steam.
AMD’s FSR 3 will finally get a chance to shine in Starfield 23% of PC gamers probably can’t play Alan Wake 2. Here’s why 4K gaming monitors are getting cheaper, but I still won’t buy one Regardless of what you think of these games, they are not good candidates to launch some new, game-changing tech. Contrast that with DLSS 3.5 with Ray Reconstruction , which not only launched in Cyberpunk 2077 but alongside the game’s hotly anticipated 2.0 update. That’s how you debut a feature that gamers will get excited about.
Nvidia certainly has a dominant position in the GPU market, so it’s able to do things like timing the release of a new feature alongside a major game expansion. AMD, being far from the market leader, may not have that same amount of sway with developers. Regardless, AMD has put its stamp on some of the biggest game releases this year, all of which lack FSR 3.
AMD’s badge shows up in Resident Evil 4, Star Wars Jedi: Survivor, The Last of Us Part One, and most recently, Lies of P.
Easily the biggest miss is Starfield , especially after AMD hyped up being the “PC exclusive partner” for the game. All of these games are absent from AMD’s list of upcoming FSR 3 games, too. The biggest title on the list is Cyberpunk 2077, but we still don’t know when FSR 3 will arrive in that game.
I have no doubt that FSR 3 will start showing up in more games throughout the rest of the year and into the next. That’s how these rollouts work. Launching FSR 3 with Forspoken and Immortals of Aveum isn’t AMD putting its best foot forward, though, especially with heavy hitters like Starfield and Star Wars Jedi: Survivor sitting on the back burner.
The compromise AMD The compromise for FSR 3’s lackluster support at launch seems to be AMD Fluid Motion Frames. This is not FSR 3 (at least not in name). Fluid Motion Frames is a driver-level feature available to RX 7000 and RX 6000 graphics cards that adds frame interpolation to DirectX 11 and DirectX 12 games. Both Fluid Motion Frames and FSR 3 offer frame interpolation, but FSR 3 is built into games while Fluid Motion Frames happens at the driver level.
That is a very important distinction. FSR 3, built into the game engine, is part of the rendering process. Fluid Motion Frames sits on top through the driver. FSR 3 can access information in the game engine, such as motion vectors and overlays, to present a cleaner final image. Fluid Motion Frames can’t.
AMD has made it clear that Fluid Motion Frames is still in its early days. It’s only available through a preview (beta) driver and with some strict stipulations. It makes sense that AMD took this approach because Fluid Motion Frames needs a lot of work.
For starters, it doesn’t always work. I’d suggest watching the breakdown from Daniel Owens below for an in-depth look in Cyberpunk 2077.
Essentially, Fluid Motion Frames compares two sequential frames and uses them to guess what a frame in between would look like. It just doesn’t always work. As you can see in the breakdown, Fluid Motion Frames will give up if there’s too large of a difference between two frames and shut itself off temporarily. This is, according to AMD’s most recent patch notes, part of the design.
If you’re walking in a straight line or moving around slowly, you’ll see the smoothness boost Fluid Motion Frames boasts. If you’re in any sort of fast motion, where you want extra smoothness the most, the feature does essentially nothing. I’d argue it leads to a worse gameplay experience, too, as you’re jumping between a very high and relatively low frame rate whenever you’re in motion. A locked 60 frames per second (fps) looks and feels better than a frame rate constantly jumping up to 120 fps and down to 60 fps.
There are other problems that AMD didn’t draw attention to when it announced Fluid Motion Frames, too. For instance, Fluid Motion Frames will still attempt to interpolate frames, even when you’re in menus, leading to fine text and menu selection fields spinning out into a mess of artifacts. The dealbreaker for me is the base frame rate requirements, though.
AMD says you should have a base frame rate of at least 55 fps for a 1080p display, and at least 70 fps for a 1440p display for Fluid Motion Frames to work properly. What happens if you drop below that? Below, you can see Hogwarts Legacy at 4K with ray tracing turned on. Fluid Motion Frames causes this low frame rate to fall apart into a smearing mess that looks like you’re playing the game in slow motion. This video is fed through Twitter’s atrocious compression, but that’s doing the gameplay experience a favor here if anything.
Oof, AMD Fluid Motion Frames not looking so hot on the 7900 XT pic.twitter.com/Ytw49uRnMJ &mdash; Jake Roach (@ManowarElves) October 4, 2023 This is outside of what AMD recommends for the tech, but it’s a good demonstration of the limitations of Fluid Motion Frames. It functions as a way to boost already high frame rates, and in a way that isn’t at all consistent. It’s particularly disappointing because this feature is something you can’t find with an Nvidia graphics card, and it would be one of the reasons to just ship to a GPU like AMD’s RX 7800 XT.
As with FSR 3, I’m sure AMD will continue to iterate on Fluid Motion Frames. This is still in a preview state for now, so some issues are to be expected. That’s my main problem with FSR 3 and Fluid Motion Frames, though. We’ve waited long enough.
Hurry up and wait AMD AMD’s rollout of FSR 3 reminds me of how Intel handled its first-gen Arc GPUs: the A750 and A770.
 They were announced prematurely, leading to a wave of speculation, rumors of cancellation, and a build-up of lofty expectations. When the GPUs finally arrived, it was clear Intel still had a lot of work to do on its drivers, which is why we’ve so commonly seen stories of Intel delivering double the performance in certain games with a driver update.
The accelerated announcement led to products that arrived in a half-finished state. FSR 3 feels similar. AMD announced the feature alongside its RX 7900 XTX and RX 7900 XT , setting up a narrative that FSR 3 would be a key feature of this next generation. Nearly a year on, we have FSR 3, but it’s nothing close to a key feature for AMD’s current generation.
We will see FSR 3 in more games, and I’m hopeful Fluid Motion Frames will mature into something that’s useful for AMD users. That’s what we’ve seen in the past with some of AMD’s other software features. Even now, though, far separated from the original announcement, FSR 3 still feels like a promise more than a feature.
There’s a lot of potential here for FSR 3. I’ve been forward about the fact that Nvidia is increasingly selling DLSS over the raw power of its GPUs, and AMD could do something similar with FSR 3. That requires careful execution with game support and features that make sense for a wide swath of gamers. Currently, FSR 3 and Fluid Motion Frames don’t deliver on those fronts.
I’m hopeful FSR 3 and Fluid Motion Frames will get better. But my excitement for the features that started in November of last year has all but disappeared.
Editors' Recommendations Don’t believe the hype — the era of native resolution gaming isn’t over ‘Compact Mode’ can’t fix the Xbox app. Here’s what could AMD finally announced the GPU I’ve waited months for This ‘Swiss Army Knife’ app transformed how I play PC games AMD might still have some next-gen GPUs left in the tank — but I don’t buy it Features PC Gaming ReSpec Computing AMD finally shared more details on its FidelityFX Super Resolution 3 (FSR 3) this week, and it's exactly what everyone was asking for. It supports frame generation, and it works across GPUs from AMD and Nvidia. The company is even releasing a driver-based version of its Fluid Motion Frames tech, potentially enabling game support for thousands of titles. It's all good stuff.
But a big question remains: How is AMD going to deal with latency? Computing I honestly forgot AMD released next-gen RDNA 3 laptop graphics cards, and I wouldn't be surprised if you did too. At the beginning of this year, the company announced a slate of next-gen graphics cards for laptops, promising they'd be out by February. The laptops -- and trust me, there are only a few -- came and went, the seasons changed, and nothing. We've had no more AMD laptops since.
I won't pretend AMD has a strong hand in the best gaming laptops. It's a place Nvidia has dominated and will likely continue to do so for generations to come, but the offerings for mobile AMD GPUs are in very short order this year. And that's especially disappointing considering the performance AMD originally claimed when it announced its RDNA 3 laptop graphics cards.
Computing After nearly a year of waiting, AMD has finally shared more details on its upcoming FidelityFX Super Resolution 3 (FSR 3). If you've seen the original announcement you know what to expect -- it's AMD's FSR upscaling combined with something called Fluid Motion Frames to multiply frame rates. The big news? It works with any GPU.
Well, not technically any GPU. AMD says its Fluid Motion Frames works on anything from the original RDNA generation (RX 5000) and newer, but that includes GPUs from Nvidia and Intel. It's a much different approach than Nvidia's Deep Learning Super Sampling 3 (DLSS 3). The DLSS Frame Generation feature not only requires an Nvidia RTX GPU, but specifically one from the most recent generation like the RTX 4070.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
