Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending in Computing: Best Dell Laptops ChatGPT Best Monitors Asus ROG Azoth Review How to delete a page in Word in 3 easy steps RTX 4080 vs RTX 4070 Ti Best Mac Apps AMD vs Intel Recall an Email in Outlook Home Computing Features Consoles still have one big advantage, and it’s hurting PC gaming By Jacob Roach Close The death of PC gaming.
 That’s been the topic at hand for the past several weeks, with port after port after port arriving on PC in disastrous states. PC gaming isn’t dead, but if this trend continues, it’s hard to recommend picking up any new release on PC, at least before it receives a string of inevitable patches.
The source of stutter The Kraken of next-gen Nvidia’s answer I wish I could provide a single solution for the problems PC games face, but I can’t. The list is massive. But there’s one area of focus that could help the situation a lot, and it’s where consoles still have a lead over PC.
The source of stutter These frame time spikes manifest as severe stutters in Gotham Knights.
Image used with permission by copyright holder When it comes down to it, there’s one thing that causes a stutter in your games: a spike in rendering time. Something has clogged up the pipe for a brief moment, and while that’s sorted out, there’s a gap in time between one frame showing up on your screen and the next. That’s a stutter.
Windows is holding back the future of handheld gaming I can’t get excited about AMD’s next version of FSR anymore Is a game poorly optimized, or just demanding? They’re not the same thing But what’s clogging the pipes? In many cases on PC, we see shader compilation stutter. This is where the CPU needs to send instructions (shaders) to the GPU and translate them from software code to hardware code. This is the source of stutter in games like Gotham Knights in many cases.
We have a good solution for shader compilation stuttering.
 The first is pre-compiling shaders like Uncharted: Legacy of Thieves does on PC. Get the instructions stored in memory ahead of time so that you don’t need to fuss with compiling while the game is running. The other is asynchronous compilation. Modern CPUs like the Core i5-13600K have access to a ton of threads, so threads that aren’t doing much can handle compiling for upcoming sections while you play.
Jacob Roach / Digital Trends They’re not simple solutions, but they work. The other main source of stutter we see is traversal or loading stutter. This is the case for Star Wars Jedi: Survivor, a game that launched with a number of performance issues.
 Here, the spike in rendering time comes from the game loading in new data as you traverse through the world.
It’s important to distinguish between the two because they have far different solutions. Shader compilation stuttering happens when a new shader effect is introduced on screen. Shading a single pixel can have several layers of effects, so an explosion or an effect from picking up an item are the areas where you typically see shader compilation stutter.
Traversal stutter happens when your character passes a loading zone of some variety. If nothing particularly note-worthy is happening on screen, there’s a good chance you’re seeing a traversal stutter and not a shader compilation stutter.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Star Wars Jedi: Survivor is a good example of this dynamic. In the opening of the game on Coruscant, a large ship crashes into a platform and there’s a brief, minor shader compilation stutter. Later, on Koboh when you enter or exit Pyloon’s Saloon, however, there are around 10 seconds of intense stuttering. That’s a traversal stutter.
Developers have solutions for shader compilation stutter, even on engines like Unreal Engine 4 that are particularly hard to wrangle in that department. We have seen many of the shader-related stutters fixed in games like Hogwarts Legacy, and games like Atomic Heart have launched free of stutters due to an intense pre-compilation process. The situation for traversal stutter is more complex.
The Kraken of next-gen Image used with permission by copyright holder Both the PS5 and Xbox Series X have dedicated hardware decompression processors. According to Sony’s Mark Cerny, the dedicated processor that uses Oodle Kraken decompression library on the PS5 can handle the compression work of nine AMD Zen 2 cores. Xbox has Microsoft’s DirectStorage system in place, which also includes a dedicated processor for decompression to speed up loading time, and critically, asset streaming.
Streaming in data from the SSD is where traversal stutter occurs, and it’s a much more challenging issue to solve on PC. Not only do PCs not have dedicated decompression hardware, but the range of specs of SSDs makes it hard to reliably scale streaming performance across multiple systems.
There are solutions for this problem on PC, but they just aren’t working yet.
On a PC, decompression is a task for the CPU. Data is streamed from the SSD, but it needs to be decompressed while in transit, oftentimes resulting in a traversal stutter. The dedicated decompression hardware on the PS5 and Xbox Series X results in far fewer traversal stutters, despite the fact that their CPUs aren’t as powerful as what’s available in a modern, high-end PC.
There are solutions for this problem on PC, but they just aren’t working yet. DirectStorage is available to PC users, and it helps improve loading times and streaming through GPU decompression. The problem is that we only have one game with DirectStorage right now, Forspoken, and it doesn’t leverage GPU decompression. It just improves loading times, slightly outpacing a PS5.
Image used with permission by copyright holder In every other game, the process is the same. Assets are brought from storage into system memory, the CPU decompresses them, and then they’re copied to GPU memory. This labor-intensive process is likely a reason why we’ve seen VRAM usage go up so high in recent releases, as the games are developed for consoles that don’t have a memory bottleneck that’s currently present on PC.
DirectStorage is one solution, but it’s not the only way to improve the major traversal stutter issues on PC. Proper CPU scaling is a solution that’s been underutilized, particularly for Unreal Engine 4 releases. This engine is built largely to run on two threads of the CPU, and as you can see in games like Star Wars Jedi: Survivor, the remaining threads aren’t doing much work, if any at all.
Despite the fact that consoles have less compute power than modern PCs, developers are designing games for platforms that don’t have a major asset streaming bottleneck. You can still achieve higher performance and visual quality on a high-end PC, for sure, but that comes at the cost of stuttering, lowered texture resolution, and VRAM limitations that aren’t present on console, or at the very least, are far less severe.
Nvidia’s answer Image used with permission by copyright holder In early May, Nvidia submitted a research paper to Siggraph 2023 — an annual conference centered around advancements in computer graphics — titled “Random-Access Neural Compression of Material Textures.” The paper proposes a system where a neural network handles compression and decompression of textures, and according to it, the system can store 16 times the data in the same amount of space as a traditional block-based compression.
It’s called Neural Texture Compression (NTC). More detail in textures for the same storage space is definitely an attractive option — as we’ve seen with Forspoken and Resident Evil 4 Remake, texture quality can actually be much lower on PC than consoles in VRAM-constrained scenarios — but the real boon is that NTC is designed to decompress data at runtime.
DirectStorage hasn’t materialized in PC games in the way I would’ve hoped.
There is a slight overhead compared to dedicated decompression processors, according to Nvidia, but the researchers say they expect this overhead to be smaller once it’s applied to real-time rendering. More important is that decompression can happen directly on the GPU, bypassing the CPU and the need for dedicated hardware entirely.
Will this solve the stuttering issues and VRAM hikes plaguing PC gamers? I don’t know. For now, this is just a research paper, and if we do see NTC brought into graphics cards , it’s probably a few generations off. It likely won’t be a marketable feature like Nvidia’s Deep Learning Super Sampling (DLSS) is, either.
But it holds a lot of promise. DirectStorage, for as much of an answer as it sounds like, hasn’t materialized in PC games in the way I would’ve hoped. The hardware supports it, the software is out there, but we just don’t have games leveraging hardware GPU decompression to get anywhere near what the consoles currently offer. This solution may be more manageable for developers and less demanding on hardware.
We don’t know for now. In the meantime, I’ll be crossing my fingers that the remainder of 2023 holds PC releases that actually function, at least until we see more of the clever ways that developers and vendors want to tackle what’s a clear problem with PC gaming.
Editors' Recommendations Don’t believe the hype — the era of native resolution gaming isn’t over 4K gaming monitors are getting cheaper, but I still won’t buy one This ‘Swiss Army Knife’ app transformed how I play PC games The success of AMD’s FSR 3 hinges on this one feature Why I leave Nvidia’s game-changing tech off in most games Features PC Gaming ReSpec Computing Everyone owes Sony an apology. When the PS5 was announced and Ratchet and Clank: Rift Apart was shown off as exclusive for the platform, there was a barrage of finger-pointing at Sony over the game's next-gen exclusive status. The argument from Sony was that the game required the PS5's world-class storage interface, and anything less simply wouldn't work.
Now that the game is available on PC, I can see exactly what Sony was referencing. As you can see from Digital Foundry's first look at the game, it simply doesn't work on the PS4's slow, 5,400RPM hard drive.
Computing You wouldn't suspect that a mod like Portal: Prelude RTX would debut such a major piece of kit for the future of PC gaming. But lo and behold -- it's the first game we've seen with Nvidia's new RTX IO, a feature that was announced nearly three years ago.
It's not as flashy as ray tracing or DLSS, operating in the background and offering a slew of benefits without drawing attention to them. But according to my testing, RTX IO may have a bigger impact on PC gaming than any other RTX features.
What is RTX IO? Portal: Prelude RTX | RTX IO Off vs On Comparison – Cake Scene Computing It's been a tough time for PC gamers in 2023, but Sony's next major PC port could finally solve some problems. Ratchet & Clank: Rift Apart, originally released for the PlayStation 5 over two years ago, is finally arriving on PC. It supports all of the latest PC bells and whistles, but also something completely new: DirectStorage 1.2.
That may not seem like a big deal -- after all, Forspoken arrived with DirectStorage and still had performance issues, while promises of a patch in Diablo IV have yet to manifest. However, Ratchet & Clank: Rift Apart is the first game to take advantage of the GPU decompression portion of DirectStorage.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
