Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending in Computing: Best Dell Laptops ChatGPT Best Monitors Asus ROG Azoth Review How to delete a page in Word in 3 easy steps RTX 4080 vs RTX 4070 Ti Best Mac Apps AMD vs Intel Recall an Email in Outlook Home Computing Features Why DisplayPort 2.1 could become a big deal for PC gaming in 2023 By Jacob Roach Close DisplayPort 2.1 became a much bigger talking point than expected when AMD revealed its upcoming RX 7900 XTX and RX 7900 XT GPUs. It’s the latest standard from DisplayPort, a revision to the 2.0 spec released in 2019, and it’s a natural inclusion for next-gen GPUs. There’s just one problem — Nvidia’s behemoth RTX 4090 still uses DisplayPort 1.4a.
An update four years in the making We have the hardware An important distinction, but not a selling point Although the 1.4a spec is still more than enough for most people, the inclusion of DisplayPort 2.1 does give AMD an advantage this generation. No, I’m not here to sell you on 8K gaming — in some parts of the world, 8K may not even be possible — but for a crowd of competitive gamers and VR enthusiasts, DisplayPort 2.1 could mark a major shift.
An update four years in the making The EVGA RTX 3050 XC Black includes three DisplayPort connections and a single HDMI.
Jacob Roach / Digital Trends VESA, the company that defines and certifies the DisplayPort standard, released DisplayPort 2.1 in October 2022. It usually takes years for products to make their way to market supporting a new standard, but DisplayPort 2.1 isn’t all that new. It’s a refresh to DisplayPort 2.0, which launched in 2019, and a massive improvement over DisplayPort 1.4 that we’ve seen since 2016.
CES 2023 is a turning point for the dilemma between TVs and gaming monitors With DisplayPort 2.1, longer cables won’t reduce throughput HDMI 2.1 could reinvent PC gaming, and all gaming laptops should have it Like any new connection, it’s all about bandwidth. DisplayPort 1.4a, which you’ll find on all recent graphics cards short of the Intel Arc A770 and A750 , as well as AMD’s upcoming RX 7900 XTX, tops out at 25.92 Gbps of maximum data rate. DisplayPort 2.1 goes up to 77.37Gbps (theoretical bandwidth is higher, in case you see different numbers, but this is the actual data rate possible across the cable). If you run some, admittedly complicated, math, you’ll find that the required data rate for 4K at 120Hz with HDR turned on is 32.27Gbps — higher than what DisplayPort 1.4a is capable of.
Monitors like the Samsung Odyssey Neo G8 support 4K at 240Hz with only DisplayPort 1.4a, so what gives? DisplayPort (and HDMI now) uses Display Stream Compression (DSC) to reduce the amount of data required. DSC isn’t mathematically lossless, but it is visually lossless. And it can reduce the required data by up to a 3:1 ratio, taking that 32.27Gbps number all the way down to 10.76Gbps. That’s great, and DSC is the only reason that DisplayPort 1.4a hasn’t been kicked to the curb already.
Jacob Roach / Digital Trends The problem is that the limitations of DisplayPort 1.4a are starting to crop up, even with DSC enabled. A theoretical 4K monitor at 360Hz wouldn’t be able to run at its full refresh rate, even with DSC compressing by 3:1 (the required data rate is 36.54Gbps, in case you were wondering). And higher color depths for HDR add even more bandwidth requirements, as do higher refresh rates and resolutions.
A 4K 360Hz monitor may sound insane now, but we have hardware capable of driving such a display. AMD is claiming 295 fps at 4K in Apex Legends and 355 fps in Overwatch 2.
In addition, the RTX 4090 can push above 300 fps at 4K in Rainbow Six Siege, and the frame generation capabilities of DLSS 3 and the upcoming FSR 3 are sure to challenge the position of the 4K at 240Hz maximum we currently have on gaming monitors.
Most people don’t need that extra refresh rate, but let’s be honest; most people don’t need to spend $1,600 (or even $1,000) on a GPU, either.
We have the hardware Jacob Roach / Digital Trends Strangely, we’re not waiting on hardware to take advantage of monitors. We’re waiting on monitors to show off new hardware. Samsung has already teased its “8K” Odyssey Neo G9 for CES this year — for the record, it’s not true 8K, but rather two 4K displays side-by-side in the 32:9 aspect ratio — and we expect to see at least a handful of 8K gaming monitors to be shown off at the show along Samsung’s display.
That display is a good touchstone, too. Assuming Samsung wants to keep with a 240Hz refresh rate like the current version has, you’re looking at a data rate above 45Gbps with HDR on (36.19Gbps with HDR off), and that’s with 3:1 compression. This is all theoretical at the moment, we need to wait until we see this display and other 8K options, but the numbers suggest that the RTX 4090 may not be able to drive them due to its DisplayPort 1.4a connection (at least at full refresh rate, DisplayPort is backwards compatible).
Image used with permission by copyright holder There’s no need to restrict this conversation to 8K or super high refresh rates at 4K, either. OLED TVs masquerading as gaming monitors are becoming increasingly popular, and they could see huge benefits from 5K and 6K resolutions. As I saw with LG’s UltraGear 48 OLED , the pixel density needs to be higher for such a large screen so close to your face. DisplayPort 1.4a can drive 5K and 6K with DSC, but not at refresh rates above 120Hz and not at higher HDR color depths.
That capping of data rate shows up in VR, as well. The Pimax Crystal, which is currently a Kickstarter campaign, should require around 29Gbps of data with DSC at 3:1 based on the specs. That’s within what DisplayPort 1.4a is capable of, but it’s reaching the limit.
From large form factor displays to VR headsets to higher refresh rates at 4K, DisplayPort 1.4a is starting to reach its full capacity. If both AMD and Nvidia stuck with DisplayPort 1.4a, that wouldn’t be a big deal. Display manufacturers would adapt to the capabilities of what’s currently in the market. But AMD is opening the floodgates with its new GPUs.
An important distinction, but not a selling point Image used with permission by copyright holder Out of all of the things to base a buying decision on, the DisplayPort standard should be very far down on that list. We still need to see how AMD’s new GPUs perform, what features like FidelityFX Super Resolution (FSR) 3.0 will bring, and if pushing past the barrier gaming monitors are at now even makes sense.
That’s where the trend is heading, though, and the difference between DisplayPort 1.4a and 2.1 might become more relevant much faster than we anticipated — at least for a high-end class of gamers who want to experiment with bleeding-edge tech.
Editors' Recommendations Consoles still have one big advantage, and it’s hurting PC gaming Get ready: the first 8K ultrawide monitors are coming out in 2023 DisplayPort cable labels just changed, but there’s good news Features GPUs ReSpec Computing Printers are complicated machines featuring a mix of plastics, metals, electronics, and components, some of which are potentially flagged as hazardous waste. In 2023, it's more important than ever to be kind to the planet, and there are several environmentally safe ways to dispose of a printer.
Even the best printers in the world can reach the end of their life after several years if ink or toner is no longer available. A well-loved printer can suffer from accumulated wear and tear or damage from a catastrophic power surge that's too expensive to repair.
Computing It's Black Friday, which means it is time to give expensive tech products and fun, but expensive, toys a second look. The right Black Friday deals are there to take these categories of products down in price. Where these categories of expensive tech and cool toys collide is the Meta Quest 2, a VR headset, and sure enough, it has a good sale going on over at Amazon right now. Normally $300, its price has dropped by $51 down to just $249, one of the best VR headset Black Friday deals we've seen. The really good news? This deal is here now, so you don't have to wait to buy it like you will with the rest of your post Thanksgiving shopping. In fact, if you tap the button below and buy now, and with a little shipping luck, you might have it by Thanksgiving to play with your family.
Why you should buy the Meta Quest 2 The Meta Quest 2, which dominated Steam last year, is a VR headset that gives a full 360 field of view, allows you to experience 3D positional audio, and has over 500 compatible titles between gaming, fitness, and other experiences. If you're a Twitch viewer, you may recognize it from streamers playing Meta Quest 2 games like Beat Saber or the somewhat ironically humorous Among Us VR. It refreshes at 120Hz and gives each eye a view of 1832 x 1920p.
Computing The G-series of gaming laptops from Dell represent a balance between performance and affordability. While it is positioned below the Alienware gaming laptop lineup, it manages to incorporate some of the standout features from its more expensive counterpart. It takes inspiration from its pricier cousin in terms of design and build quality, and also offers commendable thermal and graphics performance.
The company officially unveiled the 2023 G-series back in January at CES, and if you have decided to purchase a new Dell gaming laptop, then we recommend going for the latest G16 7630.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
