Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending in Computing: Best Dell Laptops ChatGPT Best Monitors Asus ROG Azoth Review How to delete a page in Word in 3 easy steps RTX 4080 vs RTX 4070 Ti Best Mac Apps AMD vs Intel Recall an Email in Outlook Home Computing Features Why you shouldn’t buy the RTX 4090 on release day By Jacob Roach Close Nvidia’s new monster GPU, the RTX 4090 , is coming on October 12. I wouldn’t blame you if you already have a few browser tabs open to pick one up the moment it becomes available. After all, last time we were standing on the edge of a new GPU generation, cards went out of stock in seconds and stayed that way for nearly two years.
A hype train (with context) Preparing for a shortage that won’t come Winning by default But this release is going to be different. As exciting as the next generation of GPUs is, I won’t be buying one on day one, and I’m here to suggest you resist the urge as well.
A hype train (with context) Jacob Roach / Digital Trends Hype for anything means one thing — scalpers. From concert tickets to sneakers to GPUs, if there’s a lot of demand and limited supply (like there always is for high-end graphics cards), scalpers will take advantage and try to snatch up as many of them as possible. These days, there are a lot of tools to help scalpers get the upper hand, and that might make you think you need to make the first move.
Whatever you do, don’t buy an Nvidia GPU right now Nvidia RTX 4090 prices are skyrocketing as stocks run seriously low Windows is holding back the future of handheld gaming Anyone reading this column knows about bots — even the U.S. government knows, with measures like the “Grinch Bots” Act making the rounds — but it’s important to put a name to a face.
Stellar AIO is one popular tool that supports a wide variety of websites with high-demand products including clothing, shoes, and electronics. And it specifically supports AMD and EVGA, which stand out like a sore thumb among direct sellers like Yeezy and Topps.
I want to avoid linking directly to too many of these bots, but a quick Google search will reveal dozens of scalping tools, as well as supporting articles explaining just how much of a cash cow GPUs can be. You’ll also find several forum posts like this one on the Linus Tech Tips forum , with gamers even contemplating building (or buying) a bot to secure a GPU of their own.
The launch excitement will subside and scalpers will move onto to more profitable ventures.
The bot discussion has died down as GPU prices have started to return to normal. But don’t count bots out. With the RTX 4090 swiftly approaching, the tools and demand are in place for scalpers to jump in and buy up as much stock as they can. After all, scalpers brought in over $60 million in revenue on RTX 30-series cards in the first four months they were on the market, and any reseller would want to return to that well.
A lot is different this time around, though. Bots are sure to come, and scalpers are all but guaranteed to catapult prices on the secondhand market, but the launch excitement will subside and scalpers will move onto to more profitable ventures. And that’s because with this generation, we don’t have a massive silicon shortage to contend with.
Preparing for a shortage that won’t come If you missed the RTX 30-series launch, you’ve probably been kicking yourself for not spamming your F5 key to get a card at list price. And you’ve probably felt the mid-2021 defeat surrounding high GPU prices. I’ve heard it countless times: “I’ll just wait until 40-series comes out.” You don’t have to resort to a bot or slamming your keyboard to get a GPU this generation, though.
It will probably look a lot like we’re headed for another shortage when the RTX 4090 releases, but give it time.
We’re no longer contending with a GPU shortage — if anything, we have a GPU surplus right now.
 The last few generations have brought short-term shortages as scalpers capitalize on those dead set on being early adopters, and the RTX 40-series likely won’t be any different. Unlike the previous generation, however, that short-term demand won’t lead into a long-term shortage with compounding factors like tariffs and component shortages.
It will probably look a lot like we’re headed for another shortage when the RTX 4090 releases, but give it time. The factors that led to the GPU shortage last generation aren’t present this time around.
Jacob Roach / Digital Trends On top of that, the demand from cryptocurrency miners won’t be nearly as fierce. Ethereum, which comprised the lion’s share of GPU mining, has moved on to proof of stake — mining is a thing of the past, at least for this coin. Don’t underestimate the impact of mining on GPU demand, either. In the first half of 2021, some estimates said a quarter of all GPU sales came from miners.
With crypto down and the supply chain factors that contributed to the GPU shortage mostly solved , the only reason to buy an RTX 4090 on release day is if you absolutely need the card right away or just don’t care if it’s more expensive. I imagine most people reading this don’t fall into either camp. Even if you want the top dog GPU, don’t resort to paying scalper prices. They won’t stick around for long.
Winning by default Jacob Roach / Digital Trends Comparative performance is another reason to hold off on day one. Rest assured, I’m hard at work on our RTX 4090 review (it’s live now). Even before a single benchmark is out there, though, it’s easy to see the RTX 4090 will win by default — at least in terms of raw performance.
It’s the first card in a new generation, and the most powerful of Nvidia’s currently announced cards. Without any competition from AMD, the RTX 4090 is almost sure to automatically top every performance chart. There’s nothing to reasonably compare it to except for the previous generation.
We already know that the (relatively) cheaper RTX 4080 16GB and RTX 4080 12GB are arriving November, and AMD is set to launch its next-gen GPUs on November 3. It’s a similar situation as AMD’s Ryzen 7000 and Intel’s Raptor Lake — with the launches stacked so closely to each other, it’s worth waiting at least a few weeks to get a full picture of how the next generation will play out.
Even if the RTX 4090 is everything Nvidia promised and more, taking some time to see how competing cards will stack up is a very good idea.
Usually, it’s best to make your PC upgrade and building decisions with what’s available at the time, not what could be available in the future. But with these launches so close, waiting is the best option.
The next generation is exciting. It’s good to hold on to that excitement, but don’t let the last two years of high GPU prices and sustained shortages guide your buying decisions — as always, performance, pricing, and features are what really matter, and there’s a lot to talk about on that front in the coming weeks.
This article is part of ReSpec – an ongoing biweekly column that includes discussions, advice, and in-depth reporting on the tech behind PC gaming.
Editors' Recommendations Don’t wait for new GPUs. It’s safe to buy a gaming laptop now Don’t believe the hype — the era of native resolution gaming isn’t over 23% of PC gamers probably can’t play Alan Wake 2. Here’s why This underrated Nvidia GPU is still the one to buy Even older RTX 4090s aren’t safe from melting connector Features PC Gaming ReSpec Computing Monitors are getting cheaper, and that's particularly true for 4K gaming monitors. Over the past couple of years, multiple brands have launched their own stripped-back 4K gaming displays, with each driving prices down, and proper 4K gaming displays are cheaper now than they've ever been.
The price drops aren't insignificant, either. The go-to 4K gaming display over the past several years has been the LG 27GN950-B, which launched for $800. Now, you'd be overpaying if you pick one up for more than $650. Samsung's market-defining Odyssey Neo G8 launched just last year for $1,500. Now? You can buy it for $1,000 on sale.
Computing According to the latest round of leaks, Nvidia may be readying an RTX 4080 Ti, set to come out in the first few months of 2024. While such a GPU would definitely rank high among the best graphics cards, it's not exactly necessary right now -- there are plenty of high-end GPUs floating around. There is one reason I would like to see an RTX 4080 Ti, though; to push down the price of the RTX 4080.
MEGAsizeGPU, who is a frequent speculator in the graphics card space, shared over the weekend that an RTX 4080 Super, or maybe Ti, will come out in just a few months. Given Nvidia's current naming convention in this generation, a Ti card seems more likely. As per MEGAsizeGPU, the card will be based on Nvidia's flagship AD102 chip and will have a power consumption below 450 watts. The other specs are a mystery, but I wouldn't be surprised if Nvidia added some more VRAM to the card -- 20GB seems likely. The bump from AD103 to AD102 should also deliver a decent upgrade in CUDA core counts -- dare I say in the 12,000 to 13,000 range? Computing AMD's FidelityFX Super Resolution 3 is available after nearly a year of waiting. The company announced the feature around November of last year, in a swift response to Nvidia's, at the time, new Deep Learning Super Sampling 3 (DLSS 3). AMD's pitch was simple. The company was going to deliver the same performance-multiplying feature that generates frames instead of rendering them, and it would work with any graphics card.
Now it's here, and on paper, FSR 3 does exactly what AMD claimed. It's clear AMD has a lot more work to do to make FSR 3 work properly, though. And after almost a year of waiting for the feature to arrive, it's hard betting on promises for what FSR 3 could be in the future.
Where are the games? Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
