Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending in Computing: Best Dell Laptops ChatGPT Best Monitors Asus ROG Azoth Review How to delete a page in Word in 3 easy steps RTX 4080 vs RTX 4070 Ti Best Mac Apps AMD vs Intel Recall an Email in Outlook Home Computing Features I tried to relive the forgotten legacy of Halo as a Mac franchise — and it was a disaster By Jacob Roach Close Jacob Roach / Digital Trends There’s something so viscerally wrong about seeing Halo on a Mac. Apple’s computers aren’t known for gaming, sure, but Halo , in particular, looks out of place. It’s Microsoft’s star child, and it’s the franchise Microsoft has hung its hat on for 22 years.
Halo, the Mac exclusive? The Game Porting Toolkit mess Things could have been different But the game was originally designed for the Mac, and now, you can play it right on your MacBook. Apple’s recent Game Porting Toolkit makes all kinds of Windows games playable on the Mac — in theory. Considering the franchise’s storied history with Apple, I gave it a shot to see if the platform is ready for prime time and if I could fulfill the legacy of Halo as a game made specifically for the Mac.
Halo, the Mac exclusive? Justin Sullivan/Getty Images It shouldn’t come as a surprise that there’s no official way to play Halo on a Mac. Microsoft doesn’t currently own the game’s developer, Bungie, but it definitely owns Halo , meaning the majority of the franchise has been available exclusively on Xbox and PC over the years. That remains true today with The Master Chief Collection , which has become the de facto way to play through all the updated versions of the games under one roof, short of Halo Infinite.
There’s one part of Halo’s history, though, that Microsoft would rather not celebrate. Specifically, Bungie’s early beginnings as a poster child for Apple’s ecosystem — not Microsoft’s.
The company was founded by Alex Seropian and Jason Jones in 1991. In 1992, the company released its first game : Minotaur.
The game was originally developed by Jones, and the duo ported it over to the Macintosh from the Apple II. From there, Bungie turned into an Apple superstar. Most remember Bungie on Apple for its Marathon trilogy, which was built for Apple’s platform as an alternative to PC-exclusive shooters.
Apple’s close partnership with Bungie in the early years of the company didn’t go unnoticed. It all came together at Macworld 1999, where Steve Jobs, wearing his signature black turtleneck, announced a new game exclusively built for Mac: Halo.
It’s not the Halo we know today. Master Chief is there, but the game was originally developed as a strategy game, and by the time it was announced at Macworld, it was a third-person shooter.
Then, things changed. Microsoft purchased Bungie in 2000 and introduced its first console exclusive, Halo: Combat Evolved.
This reportedly infuriated Jobs.
 Why? Apparently Jobs wanted to purchase Bungie for himself.
Halo: Combat Evolved released in 2001 exclusively for Microsoft’s new Xbox console. Two years later, in 2003, it was eventually ported to PC and Mac, following on a promise that Ed Fries, former vice president of game publishing at Microsoft, had made. No other Halo game has released on Mac since. The original Mac release is available if you look online, and you can even play it as long as you’re using macOS Mojave or older.
Despite its origins, Halo remains the furthest thing from being associated with Apple as you can imagine. But armed with Apple’s new Game Porting Toolkit, I was about embark in some revisionist history.
The Game Porting Toolkit mess Image used with permission by copyright holder Apple’s new Game Porting Toolkit is a big deal. If you’re unfamiliar, this toolkit essentially builds a Windows emulation environment inside of macOS itself. It’s made as a developer tool, allowing devs to test their games on Mac within minutes before dedicating to a full port. It also supports DirectX 12, while other virtualization tools like CrossOver don’t. Most importantly, the Game Porting Toolkit is a free resource you can download from Apple’s developer website — and it’s already being celebrated as a way to transform Macs into a legitimate gaming platform.
To my disappointment, setting up the Game Porting Toolkit is quite complicated. For starters, you should be using macOS Ventura, and you need the Xcode 15 beta for it to work. After downloading and mounting the toolkit, Apple offers a write-up for getting it installed, which includes a barrage of commands you need to enter in the Terminal.
Image used with permission by copyright holder I tried this for hours, but I could never get the Game Porting Toolkit to build properly. Beyond even installing the toolkit, you need to do some work to point it toward the right directory, configure Wine, and install storefronts like Steam, all through the Terminal. It’s a hassle. I guess there’s a reason I’m a writer and not a game developer, huh? Thankfully, I didn’t need to go through the trouble. An open-source program called Whisky can configure all of this stuff manually, and that’s what I used to get the Game Porting Toolkit working on a M1 Pro MacBook Pro.
 It creates “bottles” that house different virtual machines, along with a graphics interface for configuring them. I made a Windows 10 bottle, downloaded the Windows installation files for Steam, placed them in the virtual C: drive, and I was off to the races.
Now, it was time to install and boot up The Master Chief Collection.
It took a few tries, but after a several minutes, I was hearing the iconic Gregorian chant blasting out of the MacBook Pro’s excellent speakers. Weird.
That’s when things went off the rails, though.
Halo Reach comes preinstalled, and it worked decently. I played through a few missions, and outside of some minor stuttering and a few graphics issues, it was smooth, even with the Enhanced graphics preset.
Halo CE Anniversary Edition was a different beast entirely.
The only way I could get the game to run was to use the original textures — like, the 2001-era Xbox textures — and even then, the frame rate would tank any time I was in combat. Some levels, such as the final mission, called The Maw, just didn’t load. Other missions, such an expansive outdoor map like The Silent Cartographer, turned into a slideshow even outside of combat.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Performance issues aside, there are definitely a lot of other problems with trying to play the games this way. For starters, anti-cheat software blocks you from playing any online multiplayer. Even if you can live with that, there are a slew of visual bugs and usability issues, and I’m sure I’ve only seen a fraction of those that are present across the six Halo games included in the bundle.
The most annoying thing was the fact that any overlays in the pause menu wouldn’t appear. That meant I couldn’t adjust graphics settings while playing, and that I had to force the program to close if I wanted to quit the game. To put it lightly, all these problems broke the immersion of pretending this game was actually built for the Mac.
Things could have been different Despite all the hiccups, The Master Chief Collection does technically run on the Mac through the Game Porting Toolkit, and it was a bit surreal to see it up and running — warts and all. That feeling was even stronger when I gave up on Apple’s official toolkit and tried out CrossOver. Because Halo can run on DirectX11, The Master Chief Collection became playable using CrossOver with an update in early 2022. The setup was simpler and performance was far more stable across all the games.
It still had its issues in CrossOver (especially with Halo 2 ), but for a fleeting moment, I was able to imagine what could have been. I could see the alternate history where Apple bought Bungie and kept Halo as a Mac exclusive. How would Halo as a game franchise been changed? Would it never have achieved groundbreaking success and influenced the future of first-person shooters in the way it did? What would Xbox have been without Halo as its flagship title? We’ll never know the answer to these questions, but it’s clear to see how Apple owning Bungie could have changed the course of the Mac. If Apple had planted its flag firmly in the world of PC gaming, the Game Porting Toolkit wouldn’t have needed to exist. Who knows how different the Mac brand would have been if it had embraced gaming earlier on.
As it stands, the Game Porting Toolkit is a first step toward regaining all that was lost by Apple more than two decades ago. For now, the ultimate legacy of Halo on Mac will remain just that — a legacy.
Editors' Recommendations Don’t believe the hype — the era of native resolution gaming isn’t over I can’t get excited about AMD’s next version of FSR anymore Is a game poorly optimized, or just demanding? They’re not the same thing Why I leave Nvidia’s game-changing tech off in most games It’s time to stop trying to play games without an SSD Apple Features PC Gaming ReSpec Computing I'm worried. This past week, AMD announced it was the "exclusive PC partner" for the upcoming Starfield, working directly with Bethesda Game Studios to optimize the game for AMD hardware and getting AMD's FidelityFX Super Resolution (FSR) up and running in the game (the second, much better version, to be exact).
That's not a problem. It's a good thing. Nvidia and AMD routinely enter co-marketing arrangements with upcoming games. The company promotes the game or bundles a code with a new hardware purchase, and it usually dedicates some engineers to assist with getting features working in the game. Nvidia, for example, recently offered a copy of Diablo IV with the purchase of select RTX 40-series GPUs, and the game supports Nvidia's latest version of Deep Learning Super Sampling (DLSS).
Computing When looking at the state of PC releases in 2023, it's easy to start pointing fingers. The game isn't optimized (whatever that means), or the publisher rushed it out too quickly, or the graphics cards Nvidia has been selling us come with too little VRAM. But these accusations, in most cases, are half-baked and presumptuous, and although they hint at reality, they don't tell the full story.
I wanted to know what was actually going on, so I sat down with a few developers to understand the state of PC games and why so many releases have arrived with such big problems. More importantly, I wanted to know what developers and publishers could do to solve these issues, and although the path forward isn't clear, it's becoming obvious that developers know there's a problem.
What's the problem? Computing It's been a bad year for PC ports so far, but it's easy to forget that PCs have never been the premier platform for game releases. There's a storied history of terrible PC ports, and although we're still seeing some big problems today, the games releasing now are a far cry from what we've seen in years past.
I figured it was a good time to look back at some of the worst PC ports we've seen. This isn't an exhaustive list -- there are dozens of games that have released broken on PC -- but these are the worst offenders. In some areas, we've made a ton of progress, and in others, unfortunately not so much.
Batman Arkham Knight Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
