Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending in Computing: Best Dell Laptops ChatGPT Best Monitors Asus ROG Azoth Review How to delete a page in Word in 3 easy steps RTX 4080 vs RTX 4070 Ti Best Mac Apps AMD vs Intel Recall an Email in Outlook Home Computing Features Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? I built a couch gaming PC that puts the PS5 to shame — and you can too By Jacob Roach Close The PlayStation 5 is back in stock, and if you’ve been eagerly waiting to jump into the next generation of gaming, now seems like the time to strike. I’m here to sway you away from a console, though, because you can build a PC for around the same price that puts the PS5 to shame.
Meet the PS5 killer Off-the-charts performance Are console killers back? PC building is getting more expensive, but prices on the best graphics cards are dropping. With some clever shopping and bit of elbow grease, a gaming PC can deliver better performance and higher-quality visuals without costing much more than Sony’s console. Here’s the build you need.
Meet the PS5 killer Jacob Roach / Digital Trends OK, before getting into the build, I need to lay some groundwork. The PS5 still has its place and consoles still serve a function that PCs can’t. If you’re set on the experience of Sony’s latest console, you should buy a PS5. Despite the ways it hasn’t lived up to its promises , even two years later, it’s hard to beat the value of a current-gen console. For everyone else, let me sway you toward a PC.
5 things you should never do with your gaming laptop 23% of PC gamers probably can’t play Alan Wake 2. Here’s why As a pro PC builder, here are 5 building tips no one tells you I set a budget of $600 for a couple of reasons. First and foremost, you can’t buy a PS5 for $500. There are PS5s readily available at online retailers, but only as a bundle for $560. This has been the case for several months, first with Call of Duty Modern Warfare 2, then with Horizon: Forbidden West, and now with God of War Ragnarök.
I have no doubt that will continue.
Second is that you have a lot more leeway with a PC build. Shop for specific deals, cut some storage space down to save money, or increase the budget a bit for more power. In addition, spending a little extra over the PS5 nets a lot more performance.
Here’s the build I settled on: AMD Ryzen 5 3600 — $95 Gigabyte B450M DS3H Wi-Fi — $80 G.Skill Aegis 16GB (2 x 8GB) DDR4-3200 — $42 Western Digital SN250 960GB NVMe SSD — $55 ASRock RX 6600 XT Challenger D — $275 Thermaltake Versa H17 — $50 Thermaltake Smart Series 500W — $40 Total — $637 I went overbudget a bit, but if you shop around (especially on secondhand marketplaces), you can easily shave $100 or more off the price. The main reason I went over was the RX 6600 XT.
 I had originally planned the build with an RX 6600 , which is about $50 cheaper right now. The RX 6600 XT is significantly more powerful, though, so it’s worth the upcharge.
You’ll notice the PC I built doesn’t look quite the same as the build above, and that’s mainly just because of the components I had on hand. I’m using a different case, motherboard, and power supply, mainly due to the Lian Li A4-H20 PC case I used. This case, along with a properly sized power supply and motherboard, would easily add $300 to the price of the build. Thankfully, they don’t impact performance at all.
They aren’t necessary upgrades.
For the build, I tried to match the PS5 as much as possible. The Ryzen 5 3600 provides six Zen 2 cores, while the PS5 offers eight Zen 2 cores. However, you can overclock the Ryzen 5 3600 with a single click, so I chose a motherboard that supports overclocking. If you pick up this build, keep in mind that the motherboard may need a BIOS update to support the CPU.
Similarly, the RX 6600 XT is an RDNA 2 graphics card with 32 compute units (CUs) aimed at matching the custom 36-CU RDNA 2 GPU of the PS5. That’s less power for the PC, but we have the benefit of dedicated VRAM and RAM, while the PS5 uses shared memory. Finally, I went with a 960GB PCIe SSD, which is slightly larger than the 825GB SSD available on the PS5.
Jacob Roach / Digital Trends To get the full console experience, there are a couple of small extras you should pick up, too. The 8BitDo Wireless USB Adapter 2 is much better than relying on Bluetooth for your controller, and a mini Bluetooth keyboard like the Rii X8 makes using a PC on the couch much easier.
Before getting into performance and image quality, I want to note once again that the PS5 is a great value, even two years after its release. You should buy one over building a PC if you just want a set-it-and-forget-it gaming box. The main advantage of building a PC is that you have access to a larger library of games, a system that you can use for much more outside of gaming, and the ability to easily boost your performance with an upgrade in the future.
Off-the-charts performance The PS5 is a 4K gaming console, so I ran all of my tests at 4K (despite the fact that the RX 6600 XT isn’t really a 4K GPU ). The little PC put up an impressive fight, though. I tested each game trying to simulate the Quality and Performance modes you find in PS5 games. For Quality, it was 4K with the highest graphics preset, no tricks. For Performance, I stuck with 4K and the highest graphics preset, but I turned to dynamic upscaling tools like AMD’s FidelityFX Super Resolution (FSR) to boost performance.
And the PS5 doesn’t look so hot by comparison. At native 4K where PS5 games cap out at 30 frames per second (fps), the PC is able to achieve between 35 fps and 50 fps. Similarly, the PC jumps ahead into the 70 fps to 80 fps territory with a bit of upscaling, while the PS5 mostly stays locked at 60.
Image used with permission by copyright holder The only exception is Marvel’s Spider-Man: Miles Morales.
The dynamic resolution on the PS5 was able to maintain a smooth 60 fps, while the PC couldn’t quite hit that mark. That’s likely due to the processor in the PC, showing what a couple of extra cores can do in CPU-limited games.
Still, these tests actually favor the PS5, particularly in Performance mode.
Star Wars Jedi: Fallen Order, for example, runs at 2,169 x 1,220 resolution in its Performance mode, while the PC version is attempting to hit 4K with dynamic resolution. Similarly, Guardians of the Galaxy ‘s performance mode knocks the game down to 1080p and still dips below 60 fps in many scenes. I used FSR’s Quality mode, which renders the game at 1440p.
As mentioned, I ran all of my PC tests with the highest graphics preset as well. The PS5 is usually using custom settings to fine-tune performance, so you can get much higher performance with the PC if you tweak some graphics settings or lower your resolution. Due to the frame rate caps on the PS5, you don’t have the same option to go beyond the limits set by the different graphics modes.
Image used with permission by copyright holder The highest graphics preset has some advantages, though. In Guardians of the Galaxy, you can see that the PC is using much higher-resolution textures compared to the PS5’s Quality mode (pay attention to the metal sheets at the bottom). You can see something similar in Star Wars Jedi: Fallen Order, though the difference is less stark.
Image used with permission by copyright holder It’s not always a win for PC, though.
Miles Morales is a prime example of a game optimized originally for Sony’s console where similar hardware on PC can’t match the PS5. The PC shines more in multiplatform releases where the developer doesn’t target a system so directly.
Are console killers back? Jacob Roach / Digital Trends It’s no secret that building a PC is getting more expensive. Graphics cards like the RTX 4090 are pushing flagship prices to places they’ve never gone before, next-gen DDR5 memory is still much more expensive than DDR4, and high-quality, high-capacity power supplies that you need to run the latest hardware are pricey.
The classic console killer PC at around $400 to $500 is hard to achieve in 2023, but with some thrifty shopping, you can get close. This will be even easier to achieve a few years down the line when the PS5 starts to show its age more. My only hope is that when the eventual PS6 arrives, you’ll be able to build a PC around the same price, too.
This article is part of ReSpec – an ongoing biweekly column that includes discussions, advice, and in-depth reporting on the tech behind PC gaming.
Editors' Recommendations I fell in love with this adorable mini gaming PC Don’t believe the hype — the era of native resolution gaming isn’t over Windows is holding back the future of handheld gaming AMD’s new anti-lag tech could land you with a ban in games I can’t get excited about AMD’s next version of FSR anymore Features PC Gaming ReSpec Sony Sony PlayStation Sony PlayStation 5 Computing Most PC games aren't perfect. I'd go as far to say that most of them have problems -- especially considering the disastrous PC launches we've seen this year. If a game is popular enough, and open enough, you can lean on community mods to get your game in a better state. But what if there was an app that could help your performance and add missing features to all of your PC games? There is, and it's called Special K from developer Kaldaien. It was originally created as a tool to fix the issues in the PC releases of Fallout 4 and Batman: Arkham Knight, the latter of which is one of the worst PC ports of all time. Since then, it has grown tremendously into a self-proclaimed "Swiss Army Knife" for PC game modding.
Computing I'm not going to lie: There are a lot of great gaming laptops out there. There are so many options, in fact, that it's hard to narrow it down to a couple that truly stand out from the pack.
Even recognizing that, there are two main laptops I recommend when someone asks me directly which gaming laptop they should buy. That doesn't mean other gaming laptops are bad, but these two hit the budget and performance requirements that most people are looking for in a way few other laptops can match.
Lenovo Legion Pro 5 Computing Most gaming PCs have a certain kind of aesthetic that often screams "gamer." RGB lights and strangely shaped chassis can stand out like a sore thumb if they don't match the aesthetic of your space. But if you're big on the design side of things and still want a powerful PC, Maingear has just launched two new prebuilt desktop lines that might suit you. Dubbed North and Noctua North, they both come equipped with some of the best graphics cards and processors.
The PCs are part of the new Maingear Drops program, which are limited-edition PC releases that the company says will evolve over time. Maingear split these two releases into a "Series" tier and a "Limited Edition" tier, and the difference is that Series products span several different models with varying specs, while the Limited Edition is a single preconfigured rig.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
