Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending in Computing: Best Dell Laptops ChatGPT Best Monitors Asus ROG Azoth Review How to delete a page in Word in 3 easy steps RTX 4080 vs RTX 4070 Ti Best Mac Apps AMD vs Intel Recall an Email in Outlook Home Computing Features AI is coming for your PC games, but you should be excited, not worried By Jacob Roach Close The tech community has been oversaturated with AI this past week, from ChatGPT to Google Bard, but not without reason. We see fads like NFTs and web3 come and go, but AI is here to stay — even in your PC games.
How it’s being used now Efficient game development Not without concern It’s not all doom and gloom, though. AI and machine learning has already proven itself wildly useful in PC gaming, and it has far-reaching implications for how games are made and experienced. I’m not trying to fit a square peg into a round hole here — and if you stick with me, you’ll see why.
How it’s being used now Image used with permission by copyright holder The touchstone for AI in PC games right now is Nvidia’s Deep Learning Super Sampling (DLSS).
 Train an AI model how to reconstruct a frame in a game and render the game at a lower resolution, and enjoy free performance without an impact on your visuals.
I fell in love with this adorable mini gaming PC 5 things you should never do with your gaming laptop The ‘AI PC’ is coming for you, whether you like it or not DLSS has gotten really good, and although there are algorithmic competitors like AMD’s FidelityFX Super Resolution (FSR) , Nvidia has proven that AI provides an edge. DLSS 3 is a testament to that, providing extra frames generated solely by the AI. AMD probably wouldn’t disagree, either — its latest RX 7900 XTX and RX 7900 XT include a yet-unused AI accelerator.
Beyond upscaling, AI has shown up in Nvidia’s RTX Remix modding platform, which offers a suite of AI tools to enhance textures, add additional lighting to scenes, and more.
Portal RTX is a great example of what these AI tools can do to revitalize an aging game.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Nvidia isn’t the only one here, either. A recent mod for the classic Morrowind added voice lines to the game that were generated with AI.
 With the massive dump of dialogue in Morrowind, that’s something that wouldn’t be possible without either years of work from modders to hire voice actors (unlikely) or a truckload of cash from Bethesda (even more unlikely).
Those are just a few high-level examples of how AI is being used to enhance games today, but it’s important to remember the bedrock of AI within games themselves. Tools like Unreal Engine 5’s MassEntity promise to provide huge batches of AI-driven characters with simple inputs. And that’s one of the most exciting aspects of AI in PC games — its use to speed up game development.
Efficient game development In 2020, Nvidia trained an AI model to recreate Pac-Man.
 It was trained on 50,000 episodes of the game, and two neural networks were able to recreate a playable version of Pac-Man without an underlying game engine. No set rules, no parameters — the AI simply looked at the game being played a lot and figured out how to recreate it.
It’s a testament to how far AI has come in terms of accelerating game development. Don’t worry that AI is going to start making PC games for you, though. As Take-Two CEO Strauss Zelnick said in a recent earnings call , “[AI is] not going to allow someone to say, ‘Please develop the competitor to Grand Theft Auto that’s better than Grand Theft Auto ‘… people will try, but that won’t happen.” That may not happen, but Zelnick was clear that AI has a big use in game development. One usage that’s been rising over the past several years is AI-driven Quality Assurance (QA) testing. Players generally spend thousands of hours uncovering only a fraction of bugs in PC games, but AI can run thousands of tests on a game within seconds.
AI can also be used to create more complex, varied games, particularly those with branching paths. For example, AI Dungeon 2 , which released in 2019, is a text-based adventure generated by AI that can provide infinite stories. Then there’s the endless string of stories around procedural generation in games like No Man’s Sky that are driven by algorithms creating billions of planets.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Although games like No Man’s Sky are generating new worlds, they still come from a core of human design. Generative AI allows completely new experiences that don’t need set parameters, just enough training.
I recently played the Shadows of Doubt demo — a neo-noir thriller that procedurally generates the full world — via the Steam Next Fest.
 It allows you to have a completely unique experience each time you play, with different clues, NPCs, and environments. Applying AI to this type of setting should be enough to get anyone excited, as it provides unique experiences for each player that touches the game.
Not without concern Image used with permission by copyright holder For as exciting as AI is in PC games, it also brings up a lot of valid concerns. After all, we’ve seen a Starcraft 2 AI that beat nearly every player in the world , and it’s not hard to imagine the nefarious uses of AI in competitive games.
There’s also the large swath of jobs in game development that could be impacted by AI. From concept art to level design to voice acting — AI already can handle these tasks, and it’s much cheaper than hiring a league of employees. My hope is that AI is used to expand the scope of game development on this front rather than reducing it. Similar to No Man’s Sky, I hope it’s leveraged to help smaller teams build larger games and not to simply raise the bottom line of the world’s largest publishers.
Although there are valid concerns, there’s also a lot to be excited about. As DLSS, RTX Remix, and something as out of left field as a Morrowind voice acting mod demonstrate, there are uses of AI in PC games that haven’t been imagined yet, and that’s an exciting place to be.
This article is part of ReSpec – an ongoing biweekly column that includes discussions, advice, and in-depth reporting on the tech behind PC gaming.
Editors' Recommendations Upgrade your PC or start from scratch? Here’s our definitive guide on the question Whatever you do, don’t buy an Nvidia GPU right now Don’t believe the hype — the era of native resolution gaming isn’t over Alan Wake 2 is proof that more PC games need a potato mode 23% of PC gamers probably can’t play Alan Wake 2. Here’s why Features PC Gaming ReSpec Computing I've used most of the handheld gaming PCs that have released this year, but I always go back to my Steam Deck. It's not the most powerful, it has some quirks, and I still struggle with a frustrating bug that can drain the battery in minutes. But it's still the best handheld gaming PC you can buy, and that's due in large part to the fact that it doesn't run on Windows like other handhelds.
It's not that I don't like Windows. As a PC hardware nerd, I'm well aware of both the benefits and idiosyncrasies of PC gaming. Things don't always work the way you expect them to, and that's just part of the process to get the best gaming experience possible. When it comes to this evolving form factor of handheld gaming PCs, however, those issues are amplified and pushed to their breaking point.
We've been here before Computing I've built hundreds of PCs. I'm not confident enough to say thousands yet, but I'm sure I'll hit that mark before too long. Every time I go to review a new graphics card or processor, I go through the process of tearing down and rebuilding PCs half a dozen times or more. And I've gained a lot of insight into the process during that time.
I don't sell the PCs I build -- I simply use them for evaluation -- but it's a process I engage in so often that it feels second nature. Here are five tips for building a PC that you won't find in a guide on how to build a PC.
Screws come with your case Computing Following some angry posts on Reddit, Valve has confirmed that using AMD's new Anti-Lag+ feature in Counter-Strike 2 can result in a ban. The official X/Twitter account for the game confirmed that AMD customers using Anti-Lag+ will be banned, as it tampers with the files of the game.
https://twitter.com/CounterStrike/status/1712875606776729832 Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
