Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending in Computing: Best Dell Laptops ChatGPT Best Monitors Asus ROG Azoth Review How to delete a page in Word in 3 easy steps RTX 4080 vs RTX 4070 Ti Best Mac Apps AMD vs Intel Recall an Email in Outlook Home Computing Features How generative AI will create games with ‘broader, bigger, and deeper worlds’ By Jacob Roach Close Of all the use cases for generative AI out there, I can’t think of one more significant than video games. Sure, we’ve seen people create simple games from GPT-4 — but surely, I assumed a technology this powerful was being discussed at the higher levels of game development too.
Faster create time Changing the game The Barracuda To get an idea of how big of a shift this could be, I wanted to talk to someone who actually understands how games are made on a technical level. Marc Whitten, Senior Vice President and General Manager of Unity Create, is surely one such person. He’s particularly excited about how AI could transform game development, and we spoke about how the tools that could enable that revolution are already making their way to creators.
Faster create time Image used with permission by copyright holder Games take a huge amount of time and effort to develop, but most of that time is dedicated to creating all of the content for the game. Whitten says that if you look at a common 300-person AAA studio, somewhere around 80% of them are dedicated to creating content. AI can speed up that process drastically.
Windows is holding back the future of handheld gaming This ‘Swiss Army Knife’ app transformed how I play PC games The success of AMD’s FSR 3 hinges on this one feature Whitten provided a clear example of that: Ziva Face Trainer. Ziva is a company Unity acquired in early 2022, and it has been working on its Face Trainer tool for a little over two years. It takes a model, trains it on a large set of emotions and movements, and generates something usable.
How much time does this save? Whitten says high-end rigging of a character can take a team of four to six artists four to six months: “Candidly, [that’s] why the state-of-the-art quality of characters has not actually progressed that much in the last ten years or so.” With Ziva Face Trainer, developers “give it a mesh and we train that mesh against a large set of data… so you get back in five minutes a rig model that allows you to then run it in real-time.” Ziva tech is being used a lot, too. It’s behind the suit deformation in Spider-Man: Miles Morales, as well as the Troll in the Senua’s Saga: Hellblade 2 trailer. You’ve probably seen it in a few movies and TV shows even — Captain Marvel, John Wick 3, and Game of Thrones are on the list.
That shouldn’t come as a surprise. Machine learning and procedural techniques (such as tools like SpeedTree) aren’t exactly new in the world of game development. It’s true that more research into AI models can lead to even more efficient creation pipelines, but we’re seeing a shift with generative AI.
We’re talking about large language models (LLMs) like GPT-4 and diffusion models like Midjourney , and they can radically change the games we see.
Changing the game Image used with permission by copyright holder Whitten says the hope with AI is to make games “ten to the third better,” which means games that are ten times faster, ten times easier, and ten times cheaper to develop. The result of that isn’t a flood of the same games we have, though. Whitten believes the results of that are “broader, bigger, deeper worlds.” I asked for an example, and Whitten pondered what Skyrim would look like if it had a generative AI model behind it. We’ve all heard the “arrow to the knee” meme from the game, but Whitten imagined a game where that throwaway line meant something more.
“Well, what if each of those guards actually had a Myers-Briggs-type chart? A little bit of a backstory and frankly, a backstory that could have been impacted by that. What has happened with the character along the way? And then an AI model to generate what would be a rational response coming out of that, given all of those particular events.” We’re seeing some effort there with games like The Portopia Serial Murder Case, which, bluntly, haven’t made the best case for AI in games.
 It’s not hard to see the potential, though, especially in larger games with NPCs that don’t have set quests or exhaustive dialogue.
Image used with permission by copyright holder There’s a lot of potential in sandbox-style games, as well. Whitten imagined a GTA-style game where you “go into the pawn shop and recruit the person behind the behind the desk and, you know, with maybe the game creator never even thinking about that as a possibility because of something else that happened in the game.” Whitten also thought about Scribblenauts, except in a world where you could truly make anything and assign it any properties.
The problem right now is getting that to actually work, as evidenced by The Portopia Serial Murder Case.
Whitten was one of the founding members of the Xbox team at Microsoft, and he helped lead the Kinect push. About Kinect, Whitten said: “I would tell everybody it works amazing if I’m sitting next to you.” You needed to prompt it in a specific way, and if you deviated, it wouldn’t work.
That’s the big problem that’s faced AI as a whole, with smart assistants like Alexa only operating within a narrow range. LLMs change that dynamic and allow for any prompt, and that’s what’s exciting about creating deeper game worlds. There’s still a road to get there, though.
“If you put the tool out there … [creators will] hit whatever the boundaries are and say, ‘Well, that’s not fun.’ But then they’re going to actually go find the space that no one’s even thinking about,” Whitten said.
With more tools rolling out, we could see some early experiments with AI within the next year. We already have in some cases, such as the wildly popular AI Dungeon 2.
But to make this sort of immersive world possible at scale, you need a middleman. And for Unity, that middleman is Barracuda.
The Barracuda Image used with permission by copyright holder Unity includes a neural network inference library called Barracuda. As Whitten explains, “It’s an inference engine that allows you to drive either diffusion or other forms of generative content at runtime on the device without hitting the cloud and at a highly performant pace.” Oh yeah, performance. As much as we like to talk about AI can change content forever, there’s a massive computational cost (there’s a reason it took tens of thousands of GPUs to build ChatGPT ). Barracuda allows those models to run on your CPU or GPU so you don’t have to go out to the cloud, which, for the record, would be a huge money-sink for developers.
Unity is working on more features for Barracuda, and Whitten says the “interest back from the game creator community has been extraordinarily high.” It’s the key that makes generative AI possible in game development and design, especially without requiring any specific hardware.
Whitten says the team wants to start “building techniques that allow creators to start really targeting a large and core part of their game design, not ‘Oh, this is going to really diminish my audience if I design for it.'” Unreal Engine, for its part, has a similar tool (the aptly-named NeuralNetworkInference tool, or NNI).
These libraries, when met with large generative AI models and an acceleration in content development, can lead to an “explosion of creativity,” according to Whitten. And that’s something to get excited about for the future of games.
This article is part of ReSpec – an ongoing biweekly column that includes discussions, advice, and in-depth reporting on the tech behind PC gaming.
Editors' Recommendations Don’t believe the hype — the era of native resolution gaming isn’t over I can’t get excited about AMD’s next version of FSR anymore Is a game poorly optimized, or just demanding? They’re not the same thing Nvidia’s AI-driven game characters are getting toxic Why I leave Nvidia’s game-changing tech off in most games Features PC Gaming ReSpec Computing Everyone owes Sony an apology. When the PS5 was announced and Ratchet and Clank: Rift Apart was shown off as exclusive for the platform, there was a barrage of finger-pointing at Sony over the game's next-gen exclusive status. The argument from Sony was that the game required the PS5's world-class storage interface, and anything less simply wouldn't work.
Now that the game is available on PC, I can see exactly what Sony was referencing. As you can see from Digital Foundry's first look at the game, it simply doesn't work on the PS4's slow, 5,400RPM hard drive.
Computing There's something so viscerally wrong about seeing Halo on a Mac. Apple's computers aren't known for gaming, sure, but Halo, in particular, looks out of place. It's Microsoft's star child, and it's the franchise Microsoft has hung its hat on for 22 years.
But the game was originally designed for the Mac, and now, you can play it right on your MacBook. Apple's recent Game Porting Toolkit makes all kinds of Windows games playable on the Mac -- in theory. Considering the franchise's storied history with Apple, I gave it a shot to see if the platform is ready for prime time and if I could fulfill the legacy of Halo as a game made specifically for the Mac.
Halo, the Mac exclusive? Computing Intel is making a big push into the future of graphics. The company is introducing seven new research papers to Siggraph 2023, an annual graphics conference, one of which tries to address VRAM limitations in modern GPUs with neural rendering.
The paper aims to make real-time path tracing possible with neural rendering. No, Intel isn't introducing a DLSS 3 rival, but it is looking to leverage AI to render complex scenes. Intel says the "limited amount of onboard memory [on GPUs] can limit practical rendering of complex scenes." Intel is introducing a neural level of detail representation of objects, and it says it can achieve compression rates of 70% to 95% compared to "classic source representations, while also improving quality over previous work." Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
