Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending in Computing: Best Dell Laptops ChatGPT Best Monitors Asus ROG Azoth Review How to delete a page in Word in 3 easy steps RTX 4080 vs RTX 4070 Ti Best Mac Apps AMD vs Intel Recall an Email in Outlook Home Computing Features How Nvidia’s DLSS 3 works (and why AMD FSR can’t catch up for now) By Jacob Roach Close Nvidia’s RTX 40-series graphics cards are arriving in a few short weeks, but among all the hardware improvements lies what could be Nvidia’s golden egg: DLSS 3.
 It’s much more than just an update to Nvidia’s popular DLSS (Deep Learning Super Sampling) feature, and it could end up defining Nvidia’s next generation much more than the graphics cards themselves.
How DLSS 3 works (and how it doesn’t) Where AI makes a difference Why FSR 2.0 can’t catch up (for now) AMD has been working hard to get its FidelityFX Super Resolution (FSR) on par with DLSS, and for the past several months, it’s been successful. DLSS 3 looks like it will change that dynamic — and this time, FSR may not be able to catch up anytime soon.
How DLSS 3 works (and how it doesn’t) Nvidia You’d be forgiven for thinking that DLSS 3 is a completely new version of DLSS , but it’s not. Or at least, it’s not entirely new. The backbone of DLSS 3 is the same super-resolution technology that’s available in DLSS titles today, and Nvidia will presumably continue improving it with new versions. Nvidia says you’ll see the super-resolution portion of DLSS 3 as a separate option in the graphics settings now.
23% of PC gamers probably can’t play Alan Wake 2. Here’s why I can’t get excited about AMD’s next version of FSR anymore This Starfield mod adds Nvidia’s DLSS 3 — for free The new part is frame generation. DLSS 3 will generate an entirely unique frame every other frame, essentially generating seven out of every eight pixels you see. You can see an illustration of that in the flow chart below. In the case of 4K, your GPU only renders the pixels for 1080p and uses that information for not only the current frame but also the next frame.
Nvidia Frame generation, according to Nvidia, will be a separate toggle from super resolution. That’s because frame generation only works on RTX 40-series GPUs for now, while the super resolution will continue to work on all RTX graphics cards, even in games that have updated to DLSS 3. It should go without saying, but if half of your frames are completely generated, that’s going to boost your performance by a lot.
Frame generation isn’t just some AI secret sauce, though. In DLSS 2 and tools like FSR , motion vectors are a key input for the upscaling. They describe where objects are moving from one frame to the next, but motion vectors only apply to geometry in a scene. Elements that don’t have 3D geometry, like shadows, reflections, and particles, have traditionally been masked out of the upscaling process to avoid visual artifacts.
Nvidia Masking isn’t an option when an AI is generating an entirely unique frame, which is where the Optical Flow Accelerator in RTX 40-series GPUs comes into play. It’s like a motion vector, except the graphics card is tracking the movement of individual pixels from one frame to the next. This optical flow field, along with motion vectors, depth, and color, contribute to the AI-generated frame.
It sounds like all upsides, but there’s a big problem with frames generated by the AI: they increase latency. The frame generated by the AI never passes through your PC — it’s a “fake” frame, so you won’t see it on traditional fps readouts in games or tools like FRAPS. So, latency doesn’t go down despite having so many extra frames, and due to the computational overhead of optical flow, the latency actually goes up. Because of that, DLSS 3 requires Nvidia Reflex to offset the higher latency.
Normally, your CPU stores up a render queue for your graphics card to make sure your GPU is never waiting for work to do (that would cause stutters and frame rate drops). Reflex removes the render queue and syncs your GPU and CPU so that as soon as your CPU can send instructions, the GPU starts processing them. When applied over the top of DLSS 3, Nvidia says Reflex can sometimes even result in a latency reduction.
Where AI makes a difference AMD’s FSR 2.0 doesn’t use AI, and as I wrote about a while back, it proves that you can get the same quality as DLSS with algorithms instead of machine learning. DLSS 3 changes that with its unique frame generation capabilities, as well as the introduction of optical flow.
Optical flow isn’t a new idea — it’s been around for decades and has applications in everything from video-editing applications to self-driving cars. However, calculating optical flow with machine learning is relatively new due to an increase in datasets to train AI models on. The reason why you’d want to use AI is simple: it produces fewer visual errors given enough training and it doesn’t have as much overhead at runtime.
DLSS is executing at runtime. It’s possible to develop an algorithm, free of machine learning, to estimate how each pixel moves from one frame to the next, but it’s computationally expensive, which runs counter to the whole point of supersampling in the first place. With an AI model that doesn’t require a lot of horsepower and enough training data — and rest assured, Nvidia has plenty of training data to work with — you can achieve optical flow that is high quality and can execute at runtime.
That leads to an improvement in frame rate even in games that are CPU limited. Supersampling only applies to your resolution, which is almost exclusively dependent on your GPU. With a new frame that bypasses CPU processing, DLSS 3 can double frame rates in games even if you have a complete CPU bottleneck.
 That’s impressive and currently only possible with AI.
Why FSR 2.0 can’t catch up (for now) Image used with permission by copyright holder AMD has truly done the impossible with FSR 2.0. It looks fantastic, and the fact that it’s brand-agnostic is even better. I’ve been ready to ditch DLSS for FSR 2.0 since I first saw it in Deathloop.
 But as much as I enjoy FSR 2.0 and think it’s a great piece of kit from AMD, it’s not going to catch up to DLSS 3 any time soon.
For starters, developing an algorithm that can track each pixel between frames free of artifacts is tough enough, especially in a 3D environment with dense fine detail ( Cyberpunk 2077 is a prime example). It’s possible, but tough. The bigger issue, however, is how bloated that algorithm would need to be. Tracking each pixel through 3D space, doing the optical flow calculation, generating a frame, and cleaning up any mishaps that happen along the way — it’s a lot to ask.
Getting that to run while a game is executing and still providing a frame rate improvement on the level of FSR 2.0 or DLSS, that’s even more to ask. Nvidia, even with dedicated processors and a trained model, still has to use Reflex to offset the higher latency imposed by optical flow. Without that hardware or software, FSR would likely trade too much latency to generate frames.
I have no doubt that AMD and other developers will get there eventually — or find another way around the problem — but that could be a few years down the road. It’s hard to say right now.
What’s easy to say is that DLSS 3 looks very exciting. Of course, we’ll have to wait until it’s here to validate Nvidia’s performance claims and see how image quality holds up. So far, we just have a short video from Digital Foundry showing off DLSS 3 footage (above), which I’d highly recommend watching until we see further third-party testing. From our current vantage point, though, DLSS 3 certainly looks promising.
This article is part of ReSpec – an ongoing biweekly column that includes discussions, advice, and in-depth reporting on the tech behind PC gaming.
Editors' Recommendations Don’t believe the hype — the era of native resolution gaming isn’t over This underrated Nvidia GPU is still the one to buy Nvidia’s DLSS 3.5 update is what ray tracing always wanted to be The success of AMD’s FSR 3 hinges on this one feature AMD isn’t just copying Nvidia’s homework with FSR 3 Features PC Gaming ReSpec Computing Nvidia introduced its Deep Learning Super Sampling 3 (DLSS 3) not too long ago, but the feature is already getting a major update. DLSS 3.5 will launch this fall, seemingly alongside Cyberpunk 2077: Phantom Liberty, and it adds something totally new to Nvidia's storied RTX feature.
Ray Reconstruction is what's new. At a high level, Ray Reconstruction enables greater levels of ray tracing quality without hurting your performance (in some cases, it can even improve performance). Nvidia is billing this as an image quality improvement over traditional ray tracing methods, not as a way to improve performance, however.
Computing Nvidia's most recent graphics cards have increasingly relied on Deep Learning Super Sampling (DLSS) 3 to find their value. GPUs like the RTX 4070 Ti and RTX 4060 Ti aren't impressive on their own, but factor DLSS 3 into the buying decision, and they start to become attractive. If you look at Nvidia's overall strategy for this generation of chips, it looks like the company has started selling DLSS, not graphics cards.
It's not hard to see why DLSS 3 is so important. It makes the impossible possible, like path tracing in Cyberpunk 2077, and it helps multiply frame rates far beyond what should be possible in games like Portal RTX. But now that we finally have DLSS 3 in more games and the party trick status has faded away, I've left Frame Generation off in most games. Here's why.
How DLSS 3 works Computing The RTX 4060 Ti isn't one of the best graphics cards you can buy. It's hard to even call it a good graphics card, with reports suggesting that there has been "zero" interest in Nvidia's latest GPU. I've tested the card, and I was going to review it, but this is a GPU that challenges the status quo.
If you visit several sites that review graphics cards, you'll find that scores are all over the place. Some are praising the card for solid power efficiency improvements and Nvidia's Deep Learning Super Sampling (DLSS) at a lower price, while others are focusing on its limited VRAM and the implications that has in modern games.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
