Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending in Computing: Best Dell Laptops ChatGPT Best Monitors Asus ROG Azoth Review How to delete a page in Word in 3 easy steps RTX 4080 vs RTX 4070 Ti Best Mac Apps AMD vs Intel Recall an Email in Outlook Home Computing Features We’re not in a GPU shortage, but it sure feels like one By Jacob Roach Close 2022 was a roller coaster for GPU prices.
 Prices started high, with the crypto boom on the verge of collapse, they crashed around the middle of the year, and now GPU prices are holding steady at much more reasonable costs. Or, at least, compared to the massively inflated prices we saw during the GPU shortage.
No GPU shortage here High GPU prices are a different matter GPU outlook for 2023 We’re not in another GPU shortage , but I’ve still received a handful of messages from readers concerned with how expensive GPUs are right now. As we kick off 2023, I wanted to take a look at the current state of the GPU market and where it might be headed, but more importantly, to decipher the difference between high GPU prices and a true shortage.
No GPU shortage here Jacob Roach / Digital Trends In September, I boldly claimed that the RTX 4090 wouldn’t cause another GPU shortage.
 If you’ve tried to get an RTX 4090 since launch, I’m sure you can imagine the proverbial egg on my face. Although I stand by that original point, there’s some nuance to it, especially months after the RTX 4090 hit store shelves.
Windows is holding back the future of handheld gaming This ‘Swiss Army Knife’ app transformed how I play PC games The success of AMD’s FSR 3 hinges on this one feature Let’s start with the RTX 4090.
 It has remained out of stock since it launched, at least at major retailers like Newegg and Micro Center. You can still buy a new card with marketplaces like Newegg or Amazon, but you’ll spend around $2,200 at minimum. Many cards climb above $2,500.
We have a lot of evidence that suggests we’re not in a GPU shortage The secondhand market isn’t much better. $2,000 is the minimum on eBay if you score a deal, but again, you’ll spend $2,200 for the vast majority of cards and even above $2,500 in some cases. That looks a lot like the GPU shortage. Last-gen’s RTX 3090 retailed for $1,500 ($100 less than the RTX 4090), and at the height of the shortage, it went for around $2,500.
We have a lot of evidence that points in the other direction, though. For starters, Nvidia’s RTX 4080 has seen pitiful sales.
 Scalpers aren’t able to sell them for above list price on eBay, and some claim they’ve unsuccessfully attempted to return the cards in droves. According to Wccftech’s Hassan Mujtaba, Nvidia has shipped more than four times as many RTX 4090s as it has RTX 4080s.
NVIDIA 4080 shipment units: 🟢30,000 NVIDIA 4090 shipment units: 🟢130,000 Total RTX 40 shipment units: 🟢160,000 NVIDIA&#39;s 4090 was pretty much sold out at launch.
Retailers still have 4080 in stock. 😶‍🌫️😶‍🌫️ &mdash; Hassan Mujtaba (@hms1193) November 19, 2022 Even if those numbers are wrong, you don’t have to look further than the inventory of RTX 4080 graphics cards. On Newegg at the time of writing, there are six models in stock at list price. And at my local Micro Center alone, there are over 30 cards available across two models. Even terrible GPUs like last-gen’s RX 6500 XT sold out within hours during the GPU shortage, but the RTX 4080 is readily available nearly two months after release.
The same is true of AMD’s recently launched RX 7900 XT , though not the much more popular RX 7900 XTX. If you’re shopping for last-gen cards, you can find basically any RTX 30-series or RX 6000 graphics card available from a major retailer.
The situation we’re in right now isn’t a GPU shortage. If you recall the past few years, everything was out of stock and marked up on the secondhand market. This case is unique to the RTX 4090 and maybe the RX 7900 XTX, but we’re still too close to AMD’s launch to tell.
High GPU prices are a different matter Jacob Roach / Digital Trends We’re not in another GPU shortage, but the effects of one are still around. High GPU prices still reign supreme. Nvidia’s CEO Jensen Huang caught a lot of flack for saying falling GPU prices were a story of the past , and rightfully so. But it was an oddly prophetic statement in hindsight.
We’ve covered the RTX 4090, but even the demonstrably unpopular RTX 4080 is much more expensive than it should be. You can find one model, the PNY XLR8 Gaming Verto, for the list price of $1,200. Every other card available sells for $1,300 or more. Board partner cards are always more expensive than list price, but $100 to $200 above after poor sales and an already high MSRP? That’s hard to justify.
Last-gen options are worse. The RTX 3080 , which should retail for $700, starts at around $900 despite it being more than two years old. Lower down the stack, Nvidia’s prices are better. The RTX 3060 Ti is about $50 over list price, as is the RTX 3060, and the RTX 3070 Ti is $100 over list price. It’s important to remember the age of these cards, though. They’re last-gen, and they should be selling for less than list price at this point.
Jacob Roach / Digital Trends These prices are a situation unique to Nvidia, and AMD’s GPUs provide a lot of context for where GPU prices should be.
AMD’s RX 6950 XT debuted at $1,100, but you can find models in stock for around $800 now. Nvidia’s competing RTX 3090 Ti is available in a refurbished capacity for about $1,200. That’s a decent cut below that card’s list price of $2,000, but it’s also the same price that Nvidia announced back in August 2022.
Similarly, AMD’s RX 6650 XT is anywhere from $50 to $100 below list price, and the RX 6750 XT (which competes with Nvidia’s RTX 3070 Ti) is up to $150 below list price. The only outlier here is the RX 6800 XT, which like the RTX 3080 is selling for much above list price (about $200 above list price for AMD and Nvidia).
Jacob Roach / Digital Trends In August, when Nvidia said it had “excess inventory” of RTX 30-series GPUs , the writing was already on the walls. Nvidia’s pricing is so much more expensive this generation compared to the previous one. The RTX 4080 is $500 more than the card it’s replacing, and the rumored RTX 4070 Ti could be similarly more than last-gen’s RTX 3070 Ti. With much higher prices, Nvidia doesn’t have to compete with its last-gen offerings, and they can continue to sell at or above list price.
Compare that to what AMD is doing. The RX 7900 XTX and RX 7900 XT occupy the space that last-gen’s flagships did, forcing prices down. Let’s not be naïve here, though. Although it’s true that AMD’s steadfast pricing is lowering the cost of last-gen options, Nvidia holds nearly 90% of the desktop GPU market. AMD needs lower prices to stay competitive. Nvidia doesn’t.
GPU outlook for 2023 Image used with permission by copyright holder I’m hopeful that we’ll see a big drop in GPU prices throughout 2023, and for two reasons. The first is the RTX 4080. Customers have voted with their wallets and clearly showed that the pricing of that card is unacceptable, and I don’t imagine Nvidia will continue to release cards with similar markups if they continue to see poor sales.
The second reason is that we’re past the flagship phase. Throughout 2023, AMD and Nvidia will release the GPUs lower in their product stacks, and that’s when we’ll start to see current-gen and last-gen GPU prices really competing. AMD has already put some pressure on Nvidia with its RX 7900 XTX going up against the RTX 4080, as well. In the $300-$500 price bracket, a similarly competitive GPU from AMD would force Nvidia’s hand.
Still, there’s no doubt that AMD and Nvidia want to keep GPU prices as high as possible. That’s why they’re in the GPU business. Although I’ve praised the RX 7900 XTX here for its competitive pricing against the RTX 4080, it’s important to remember that AMD’s RX 7900 XT is also far more expensive than it should be. If AMD had a grip on the GPU market like Nvidia has, we’d likely see similarly high prices from Team Red.
The real competition is in the midrange where a $50 or $100 difference is all it takes to sway a buying decision. 2023 should bring these midrange cards, and that’s hopefully when the high GPU prices we see now will start to fade. We’re out of the GPU shortage, after all.
This article is part of ReSpec – an ongoing biweekly column that includes discussions, advice, and in-depth reporting on the tech behind PC gaming.
Editors' Recommendations Don’t believe the hype — the era of native resolution gaming isn’t over I can’t get excited about AMD’s next version of FSR anymore Is a game poorly optimized, or just demanding? They’re not the same thing Modders just changed GPU overclocking forever Why I leave Nvidia’s game-changing tech off in most games Features GPUs PC Gaming ReSpec Computing Everyone owes Sony an apology. When the PS5 was announced and Ratchet and Clank: Rift Apart was shown off as exclusive for the platform, there was a barrage of finger-pointing at Sony over the game's next-gen exclusive status. The argument from Sony was that the game required the PS5's world-class storage interface, and anything less simply wouldn't work.
Now that the game is available on PC, I can see exactly what Sony was referencing. As you can see from Digital Foundry's first look at the game, it simply doesn't work on the PS4's slow, 5,400RPM hard drive.
Computing There's something so viscerally wrong about seeing Halo on a Mac. Apple's computers aren't known for gaming, sure, but Halo, in particular, looks out of place. It's Microsoft's star child, and it's the franchise Microsoft has hung its hat on for 22 years.
But the game was originally designed for the Mac, and now, you can play it right on your MacBook. Apple's recent Game Porting Toolkit makes all kinds of Windows games playable on the Mac -- in theory. Considering the franchise's storied history with Apple, I gave it a shot to see if the platform is ready for prime time and if I could fulfill the legacy of Halo as a game made specifically for the Mac.
Halo, the Mac exclusive? Computing I'm worried. This past week, AMD announced it was the "exclusive PC partner" for the upcoming Starfield, working directly with Bethesda Game Studios to optimize the game for AMD hardware and getting AMD's FidelityFX Super Resolution (FSR) up and running in the game (the second, much better version, to be exact).
That's not a problem. It's a good thing. Nvidia and AMD routinely enter co-marketing arrangements with upcoming games. The company promotes the game or bundles a code with a new hardware purchase, and it usually dedicates some engineers to assist with getting features working in the game. Nvidia, for example, recently offered a copy of Diablo IV with the purchase of select RTX 40-series GPUs, and the game supports Nvidia's latest version of Deep Learning Super Sampling (DLSS).
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
