Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Windows 12 GTA 5 Cheats Wordle Today iPhone 15 Deals Upcoming Movies Nintendo Switch 2 NYT Connections Today Google Pixel 8 Pro Review Home Smart Home Guides How to add Arlo cameras to Apple HomeKit By Jon Bitner Close Arlo has supported Apple HomeKit since 2019 , allowing you to get it synced with popular devices such as HomePod and HomePod mini. The process is fairly standard but if you're new to the world of smart home platforms, there are a few steps that might give you trouble.
How to connect Arlo cameras to Apple HomeKit How to connect Arlo cameras to HomeKit without a setup code Here's a look at how to connect Arlo cameras to Apple HomeKit, along with which cameras support the feature.
Difficulty Duration What You Need Arlo camera Base station Apple HomeKit hub Apple device Digital Trends How to connect Arlo cameras to Apple HomeKit Before getting started, you'll need to ensure your Arlo camera supports HomeKit. According to Arlo, here's a list of every product in its catalog that works with Apple's smart home platform: Arlo Ultra 2 Arlo Ultra Arlo Pro 4 Arlo Pro 3 Arlo Pro 3 Floodlight Camera Arlo Pro 2 Arlo Pro Arlo Essential Camera Arlo Essential Spotlight Camera Arlo Essential XL Spotlight Camera Arlo Essential Indoor Camera Arlo Essential Video Doorbell (Wired) You'll also want to connect your Arlo product to the Arlo SmartHub or Arlo Base Station. If your device is synced directly to your Wi-Fi router, you won't be able to use Apple HomeKit. Once your camera is synced to a base station or SmartHub, follow these simple steps.
Step 1: If you're using an Arlo setup code, launch Apple Home and select the Add Accessory button.
Step 2: Next, scan the setup code on your base station and follow the onscreen instructions to complete setup. This will vary slightly depending on your product.
Arlo enhances home security offerings with new Arlo Total Security plans Best Arlo Black Friday deals: Save on security cameras and bundles Arlo Essential 2nd Gen vs. Arlo Pro 4: is the Arlo Pro 4 worth it? Step 3: That's it! Once you've gone through the setup process, your camera will appear in HomeKit.
Arlo How to connect Arlo cameras to HomeKit without a setup code If you don't have a setup code, you'll need to spend a bit more time syncing your Arlo camera with HomeKit. But while it'll take a bit longer to get working properly, the end result is the same. Here's how to sync Arlo cameras to HomeKit without a setup code.
Step 1: Launch the Arlo app from your Apple product.
Step 2: Navigate to Settings , then select My Devices.
Step 3: Select the Arlo base station you want to add.
Step 4: Select HomeKit.
Step 5: Select the station with the camera you want to add to HomeKit.
Step 6: Select the Home you want to add the camera to. If you don't have a Home created, this is the time to create one.
Step 7: Select a Room or add a new one.
Step 8: Tap the Continue to add devices to HomeKit button.
Step 9: Finish up by following the onscreen instructions for your specific product.
Editors' Recommendations The TP-Link Tapo C120 is an affordable security camera designed for all environments Arlo Video Doorbell 2nd Gen vs. Ring Video Doorbell Pro 2 Arlo Video Doorbell 2nd Gen vs. Arlo Essential Wireless Video Doorbell: Which is best? The best outdoor security cameras of 2023 Arlo Essential XL 2nd Gen vs. Arlo Pro 4: Which is the better security camera? Apple Home Security How-To Guides Internet of Things (IoT) Smart Home The refreshed Apple HomePod is one of the best smart speakers on the market. It offers booming sound, a great design, and access to the Siri voice assistant. It also costs quite a bit of cash -- making it one of the most expensive smart speakers. On the other side of the pricing spectrum is the Echo Pop, which is remarkably cheap and gives you access to the Alexa voice assistant.
But is the HomePod (Gen 2) worth the added cost? Or are you better off opting for the affordable Echo Pop? Here's a closer look at the two smart speakers to help you figure out which is best for your needs.
Pricing and design Smart Home The Arlo Essentail Wireless Doorbell next to an iPhone 12 Pro give you a good idea on its size. Digital Trends If you've been considering one of the many Ring doorbell deals going on at the moment and you're keen to try a different brand, how about the Arlo Essential Wi-Fi Smart Video Doorbell? It usually costs $150, but right now you can buy it from Best Buy for $100 so you're saving $50 off the regular price. An ideal way to make your home more secure as well as simply know if it's worth answering the door, it's a great thing to buy. Here's what you need to know before you hit the button.
Smart Home With porch pirates always on the prowl to steal your packages, one of the best ways to protect your family from them is to invest in security camera deals. The Google Nest Cam with Floodlight is an excellent choice for this purpose, especially since it's currently on sale from Best Buy for a more affordable $190 following a $90 discount on its sticker price of $280. This is one of the retailer's early Black Friday deals, but since there's no assurance that it will remain available until the shopping holiday, it's highly recommended that you proceed with purchasing it right now.
Why you should buy the Google Nest Cam with Floodlight Once you've installed the Google Nest Cam with Floodlight and connected it to your home's Wi-Fi network, you'll never have to worry about your packages getting stolen again. The security camera's built-in intelligence is capable of telling the difference between a person, vehicle, and animal, and once it detects motion, it will send an alert through the Google Home app on your smartphone. You can then look through the device's 1080p HD camera to see what happened, and if the activity happens at night, you can set the floodlight to illuminate the area for a better view and to deter the potential thief.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
