Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending in Computing: Best Dell Laptops ChatGPT Best Monitors Asus ROG Azoth Review How to delete a page in Word in 3 easy steps RTX 4080 vs RTX 4070 Ti Best Mac Apps AMD vs Intel Recall an Email in Outlook Home Computing Features Here’s why Portal RTX is the most demanding PC game I’ve ever tested By Jacob Roach Close You probably won’t be able to run Portal RTX.
I’ll just get that out of the way upfront. Based on the most recent Steam hardware survey, I’d estimate less than 10% of PCs are even capable of running Portal RTX, and it’s closer to 4% if we’re talking about any reasonable frame rate and resolution.
Way more demanding than you think Why Portal RTX is so taxing A challenge for next-gen GPUs Portal RTX is the most demanding game I’ve tested, and running it is only possible with clever image reconstruction techniques and the fastest GPUs on the market today. Ray tracing is taxing, but it’s how Portal RTX is leveraging ray tracing that makes it the next-gen benchmark I’ve been waiting for.
Way more demanding than you think Image used with permission by copyright holder Portal RTX is way more demanding than you probably think. Even two years after launch, Cyberpunk 2077 is the most demanding game in my GPU benchmark suite, both with ray tracing on and off. Even Metro Exodus Enhanced Edition, which uses full ray-traced global illumination, is leagues easier to run than Cyberpunk 2077.
Why I leave Nvidia’s game-changing tech off in most games I tested Nvidia’s new RTX feature, and it fixed the worst part of PC gaming Consoles still have one big advantage, and it’s hurting PC gaming But Portal RTX is even more taxing. For reference, you can see how the RTX 3070 held up with Nvidia’s Deep Learning Super Sampling (DLSS) set to Auto in Portal RTX below. In both Cyberpunk 2077 and Portal RTX, I used the same DLSS mode and the highest ray tracing quality preset.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Portal RTX is a showcase for Nvidia’s next-gen graphics cards like the RTX 4090 , and in particular, the unique frame-generation capabilities of these GPUs with DLSS 3. Even with free frames, Portal RTX taxes the RTX 4080 much more than Cyberpunk 2077 does.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Cyberpunk 2077 and Portal RTX couldn’t be more different (technically and thematically), but it’s a good illustration that Portal RTX might be the most demanding ray tracing game we’ve seen to this point. Or at the least, it’s the most demanding ray tracing game you might actually play.
The question is why? Portal is 15 years old at this point, and even with updated assets and rays bouncing around, surely it couldn’t be more demanding than the dense, vibrant open world stuffed with ray-traced lighting that’s available Cyberpunk 2077 (or countless other games with ray tracing ).
But it is, and there’s a good explanation for why.
Why Portal RTX is so taxing Image used with permission by copyright holder Portal RTX uses path tracing, which you might see Nvidia refer to as “full ray tracing.” That alone isn’t the reason Portal RTX is so demanding — it’s how Nvidia is utilizing path tracing to trace all of the lights throughout a scene, as well as the shadows, reflections, and refractions those lights introduce.
Path tracing works by tracing a line out from your camera. It goes in a straight line until it hits an object, bounces, and continues on, eventually going back to the light source. The complications come up with how different objects handle light. Some of that light is absorbed, other light is reflected, and some breaks off as a refraction. Multiply this across every pixel and introduce multiple bounces (which Portal RTX does), and each frame becomes a complex string of math that’d make anyone’s head spin.
Modern AAA games with ray tracing don’t go through all of that hassle. A prime example is Dying Light 2 ‘s ray-traced flashlight.
 It traces rays where the flashlight hits a surface and bounces them around the room, creating a soft glow in dark areas where that lighting ends up. Critically, it doesn’t cast shadows, nor does it pick up the color properties of objects the flashlight interacts with.
Techland These limitations are necessary shortcuts for a game as grand as Dying Light 2.
It’s using ray tracing to enhance certain features in the game.
Portal RTX is using ray tracing to simulate light. Path tracing brings all of the disparate aspects of how light behaves in an environment under a single roof, and ends up much more demanding in the process.
Cyberpunk 2077 takes plenty of shortcuts, too. In ray-traced reflections, for example, the game calculates some of the data from typical screen space reflections (SSR) depending on what’s being reflected. In addition, post-process elements like street fog don’t carry light further into the scene. That’s not the case in Portal RTX , as you can see in the screenshot below. The blue cast from the hallway travels throughout the scene due to the soft fog and casts blue light far beyond the hallway.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Nvidia is no stranger to path tracing, showcased by the Quake II RTX demo. But Nvidia says Portal RTX includes four times as many bounces as Quake II RTX and Minecraft RTX , leading to a much more demanding (and physically accurate) showcase of light.
Portal RTX is built on Nvidia’s RTX Remix modding toolkit, too, allowing it access to features that weren’t available in previous tech demos and that we don’t see in typical ray-traced games. The feature you’ll notice first is RTX Direct Illumination (RTXDI), which allows any light in a scene to cast path-traced light and shadows. In the scene below, I’ve highlighted four areas where RTXDI is at play: the yellow switch on the floor, the orange glow from the stairs, the red glow from the button, and the blue light from the window.
Image used with permission by copyright holder The other is — get ready for it — Reservoir Spatio-Temporal Importance Resampling Global Illumination, or ReSTIR GI. Nvidia has a research paper that goes into the gritty details, but the short of it is that ReSTIR GI takes multiple samples from critical light paths instead of tracing more paths. Despite what the performance above may suggest, this is actually more efficient and allows Portal RTX to trace more bounces than it would’ve been able to.
Put together, Portal RTX is a glimpse at what may be possible in vast open-world games like Cyberpunk 2077 and Dying Light 2 in the future. It takes shortcuts, but it still serves fully simulating light in a scene.
A challenge for next-gen GPUs Image used with permission by copyright holder When the RTX 4090 was announced, we criticized it for not having any games to push the GPU to its limit.
Portal RTX is that game. The intense ray tracing plays an important role, of course, but the 2007 release has also been overhauled with physically based rendering (PBR) materials, new assets, and a few fun Easter eggs.
Portal RTX doesn’t tarnish the classic with overly reflective surfaces and nonsensical lighting like Quake II RTX did. It’s a beautiful game and the perfect excuse to revisit Aperture Laboratories. It’s just unfortunate that so few will be able to run the game.
With the RTX 3070, I averaged 1.9 frames per second (fps) with DLSS turned off at 1440p. Even with DLSS on, I wasn’t able to hit 60 fps, and that was after bumping the resolution down to 1080p. There’s no doubt Portal RTX looks and runs great with a new RTX 40-series GPU and DLSS 3 in full swing, but you’ll need at least an RTX 3080 to push the game above 60 fps with DLSS turned on.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Unfortunately, that leaves other GPUs out in the cold.
Portal RTX doesn’t currently work with Intel’s Arc A770 and A750 , and AMD’s GPUs are too behind in ray tracing to hold up (even at the high end). Nvidia was kind enough to include a temporal upscaler to use with non-RTX GPUs, but that’s not the main issue facing Portal RTX.
It’s how demanding the game is even with upscaling on.
The good news is that Portal RTX is an unlikely showcase of what next-gen looks and performs like. We’ve had the same batch of demanding titles for a few years now. Who would’ve thought that a quaint, two-hour puzzle game with a little ray tracing would be the one to challenge the status quo? This article is part of ReSpec – an ongoing biweekly column that includes discussions, advice, and in-depth reporting on the tech behind PC gaming.
Editors' Recommendations This ‘Swiss Army Knife’ app transformed how I play PC games Here’s why I’m glad Nvidia might kill its most powerful GPU I asked developers to explain why PC ports in 2023 run like garbage AI is coming for your PC games, but you should be excited, not worried I built a couch gaming PC that puts the PS5 to shame — and you can too Gaming Features ReSpec Computing 2022 was a big year for PC game releases, for better and worse. We saw remarkable achievements in fidelity in titles like Dying Light 2, but also fundamentally broken PC ports like Gotham Knights. As 2022 closes out, I wanted to take a look back at the best and worst PC games we saw in the past year.
Keep in mind that ReSpec is a technical column -- I'm focused on the technical aspects of PC releases, not necessarily my favorite games overall. Elden Ring, for example, won our best games of 2022 roundup, and it's a personal favorite. But it doesn't show up in this list in quite the same light.
Best: Portal RTX Computing DisplayPort 2.1 became a much bigger talking point than expected when AMD revealed its upcoming RX 7900 XTX and RX 7900 XT GPUs. It's the latest standard from DisplayPort, a revision to the 2.0 spec released in 2019, and it's a natural inclusion for next-gen GPUs. There's just one problem -- Nvidia's behemoth RTX 4090 still uses DisplayPort 1.4a.
Although the 1.4a spec is still more than enough for most people, the inclusion of DisplayPort 2.1 does give AMD an advantage this generation. No, I'm not here to sell you on 8K gaming -- in some parts of the world, 8K may not even be possible -- but for a crowd of competitive gamers and VR enthusiasts, DisplayPort 2.1 could mark a major shift.
An update four years in the making The EVGA RTX 3050 XC Black includes three DisplayPort connections and a single HDMI. Jacob Roach / Digital Trends Computing Nvidia's new monster GPU, the RTX 4090, is coming on October 12. I wouldn't blame you if you already have a few browser tabs open to pick one up the moment it becomes available. After all, last time we were standing on the edge of a new GPU generation, cards went out of stock in seconds and stayed that way for nearly two years.
But this release is going to be different. As exciting as the next generation of GPUs is, I won't be buying one on day one, and I'm here to suggest you resist the urge as well.
A hype train (with context) Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
