Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending in Computing: Best Dell Laptops ChatGPT Best Monitors Asus ROG Azoth Review How to delete a page in Word in 3 easy steps RTX 4080 vs RTX 4070 Ti Best Mac Apps AMD vs Intel Recall an Email in Outlook Home Computing Features Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? This ‘Swiss Army Knife’ app transformed how I play PC games By Jacob Roach Close Image used with permission by copyright holder Most PC games aren’t perfect. I’d go as far to say that most of them have problems — especially considering the disastrous PC launches we’ve seen this year. If a game is popular enough, and open enough, you can lean on community mods to get your game in a better state. But what if there was an app that could help your performance and add missing features to all of your PC games? It can do everything Specific game optimizations And there’s so much more There is, and it’s called Special K from developer Kaldaien. It was originally created as a tool to fix the issues in the PC releases of Fallout 4 and Batman: Arkham Knight, the latter of which is one of the worst PC ports of all time.
 Since then, it has grown tremendously into a self-proclaimed “Swiss Army Knife” for PC game modding.
It’s an app that won’t leave my PC until it either goes away or I stop playing PC games. Even if you don’t need to touch it in every game, it’s a tool that every PC gamer should have in their back pocket.
I fell in love with this adorable mini gaming PC Windows is holding back the future of handheld gaming I can’t get excited about AMD’s next version of FSR anymore It can do everything Jacob Roach / Digital Trends You may have heard of Special K, but you probably have the same question as a lot of folks: What does it do? It’s such a pervasive question that the top three questions on the Special K Wiki’s FAQ all cover the features of the app.
Broadly speaking, here’s what you can do with Special K: Inject customizable HDR into DirectX 11, DirectX 12 , and OpenGL games Cache textures in DirectX 11 games to improve performance Mod textures in DirectX 11 games Customize your Steam achievement notifications Inject Nvidia Reflex into any game Disable, enable, and customize inputs for games and other windows (i.e., unlock your mouse cursor, keep your keyboard and mouse active on one screen, but not another) Adjust window size and placement Load DLL files like ReShade from in the game Set focused and unfocused maximum frame rates Individually adjust audio channels Monitor system performance on a highly granular level Offers an extensive frame limiter with options to improve consistency Make custom modifications to particularly problematic games like Starfield, Elden Ring, and Nier: Automata And would you believe me if I said it can do even more? Hopefully, you can see why Special K is so useful in so many games. It breaks down the walls set by developers in PC games, allowing you to force certain features and customize how you play. And, for PC nerds like me, it provides extensive monitoring tools that no other app can match.
I’ve found it most useful for HDR , though. I have an Alienware 34 QD-OLED , and I bought the monitor specifically for the inky blacks that look stellar in HDR games. Most games just don’t have great HDR , or they lack HDR entirely. Just in the past three weeks, I’ve played Starfield and Lies of P, both of which lack native HDR.
 Turn on Special K, flip on HDR , and both games are looking better than ever.
Even in games that support HDR , Special K provides much more customization. You can tweak the saturation and the midpoint of colors, and even get a readout of color coverage to see if your display can show everything on the screen. I’d rather tweak the look of a game to my display than flip on HDR and hope the in-game adjustments provide enough bandwidth.
Jacob Roach / Digital Trends I’ve also used it a lot to turn on Nvidia Reflex. There are a lot of Nvidia Reflex games , but most of them are multiplayer shooters where latency is paramount. Flipping on Reflex nearly halved my latency in Starfield , making the game feel much more responsive. It helped in Lies of P , as well, though mostly as a way to confirm when I actually didn’t Perfect Guard an attack.
Reflex is an option through Special K’s frame rate limiter. This frame rate limiter is a lot more extensive than you probably expect. It takes control of the DirectX swap chain, and it provides options to improve latency and frame pacing depending on the DirectX version and what version of Windows you’re using. You can check out the Special K documentation if you want to dig into the details, but Special K’s frame rate limiter is very powerful.
Finally, there are the monitoring options. Special K provides a frame rate and frame time readout, but it also provides overlays for total render latency split into tasks, GPU metrics, and even thread utilization. That last one is huge for understanding how your game is leveraging the CPU, and Special K even provides tools to increase thread priority.
Jacob Roach / Digital Trends All of your settings for a game don’t vanish when you close, either. Special K creates a settings files for each game, which you can adjust in a text editor. Every time you launch the game, you’ll get the same settings without ever opening the app.
Specific game optimizations Special K is built as a global app that can work in any game (or mostly any game, as you need some workarounds for certain graphics APIs). However, there are also specific optimizations for games that are particularly problematic.
As mentioned, the app was originally built for Fallout 4 and Batman: Arkham Knight, but the list of specific game optimizations has exploded. It has frame-pacing improvements for Final Fantasy XV, texture editing for Nier: Automata, and a frame rate unlocker and PlayStation button prompts for Elden Ring.
The past several releases have focused on Starfield, adding features like a brightness slider and FOV adjustment.
And with the most recent versions of the app, these optimizations are automatic. You don’t need to download anything else. Instead, there’s a Special K launcher that will automatically load in the optimizations when you launch the game.
There won’t be optimizations for every PC release, but you can be sure that someone will work up a solution for massive releases like Starfield.
The community around Special K is massive, too so you can find workarounds if Special K is conflicting with other apps — something I ran into with the DLSS 3 mod for Starfield.
And there’s so much more Jacob Roach / Digital Trends I was intimidated to write this post, mainly because there’s so much to cover with Special K. I haven’t even touched on everything, let alone covered it in detail. You can customize your Steam achievement noise, sure, but you can also disable the Steam overlay and other overlays like GeForce Experience. Special K can even attempt to pass DRM checks for games that aren’t always online. Then there’s texture modding, where you can dump textures from DirectX 11 games and replace them with your own.
The best thing you can do is download Special K and see how it works for the games you play. I’m certain you’ll find at least a few uses for it. It’s a free, open-source app with a massive community, so there isn’t much to wait for.
The only caveat is online games. Special K injects a mod, so games that use anti-cheat software will likely flag it, potentially leading to an account ban. Thankfully, you can easily turn off Special K before launching your multiplayer games, as well as set up a blacklist of games that the app will ignore.
If you’re not using Special K, do yourself a favor and give it a download to see how it works. In return, consider supporting the developer on Patreon.
 This is a free, open-source app that’s wildly useful, and Patreon shows Kaldaien is only making about $290 a month off of it.
Editors' Recommendations I built the best gaming PC in the world — and it wasn’t worth it Don’t believe the hype — the era of native resolution gaming isn’t over 4K gaming monitors are getting cheaper, but I still won’t buy one Is a game poorly optimized, or just demanding? They’re not the same thing The success of AMD’s FSR 3 hinges on this one feature Features PC Gaming ReSpec Computing Nvidia's most recent graphics cards have increasingly relied on Deep Learning Super Sampling (DLSS) 3 to find their value. GPUs like the RTX 4070 Ti and RTX 4060 Ti aren't impressive on their own, but factor DLSS 3 into the buying decision, and they start to become attractive. If you look at Nvidia's overall strategy for this generation of chips, it looks like the company has started selling DLSS, not graphics cards.
It's not hard to see why DLSS 3 is so important. It makes the impossible possible, like path tracing in Cyberpunk 2077, and it helps multiply frame rates far beyond what should be possible in games like Portal RTX. But now that we finally have DLSS 3 in more games and the party trick status has faded away, I've left Frame Generation off in most games. Here's why.
How DLSS 3 works Computing Building a new PC is an exciting time for a gaming enthusiast -- even more so when it's been a long time and you've been working with outdated hardware. However, it can also be a pretty intimidating process if you're new to it, and as your gaming experience will be affected by these choices for the years to come, it can be hard to choose which parts to buy.
Having gone through this process myself, I've made all these choices very recently. Below, I'll show you what's worth thinking about when you build your own PC, and why I ultimately picked the components that I did.
Budget and use case Computing Everyone owes Sony an apology. When the PS5 was announced and Ratchet and Clank: Rift Apart was shown off as exclusive for the platform, there was a barrage of finger-pointing at Sony over the game's next-gen exclusive status. The argument from Sony was that the game required the PS5's world-class storage interface, and anything less simply wouldn't work.
Now that the game is available on PC, I can see exactly what Sony was referencing. As you can see from Digital Foundry's first look at the game, it simply doesn't work on the PS4's slow, 5,400RPM hard drive.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
