Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending in Computing: Best Dell Laptops ChatGPT Best Monitors Asus ROG Azoth Review How to delete a page in Word in 3 easy steps RTX 4080 vs RTX 4070 Ti Best Mac Apps AMD vs Intel Recall an Email in Outlook Home Computing Features It’s time to stop trying to play games without an SSD By Jacob Roach Close Image used with permission by copyright holder Everyone owes Sony an apology. When the PS5 was announced and Ratchet and Clank: Rift Apart was shown off as exclusive for the platform, there was a barrage of finger-pointing at Sony over the game’s next-gen exclusive status. The argument from Sony was that the game required the PS5’s world-class storage interface, and anything less simply wouldn’t work.
SSD required A next-gen storage ecosystem Now that the game is available on PC, I can see exactly what Sony was referencing. As you can see from Digital Foundry’s first look at the game, it simply doesn’t work on the PS4’s slow, 5,400RPM hard drive.
Our first look at Ratchet on PC! It has a few issues but it&#39;s overall in good shape! Infinitely better than TLOUP1 and Jedi Survivor at launch. The funniest bit is when Rich tried running the game off an actual PS4 hard drive on a machine just above min spec! https://t.co/Qt0qkYwzeu pic.twitter.com/hgFrXKVGSG &mdash; John Linneman @dark1x.bsky.social (@dark1x) July 26, 2023 But wait just a minute. On PC, Ratchet and Clank: Rift Apart technically supports a spinning hard drive. The minimum system requirements recommend an SSD, but according to the developer, a spinning hard drive will work just fine.
It won’t, as I’ll get to later, but there’s a problem brewing in the world of PC gaming centered around storage, and it’s becoming too big of a deal to ignore.
Windows is holding back the future of handheld gaming It’s time to stop ignoring your motherboard when building a PC Is a game poorly optimized, or just demanding? They’re not the same thing SSD required Samsung This year, we’ve finally seen developers require an SSD for games.
Starfield received a load of pushback after it was revealed the game would require an SSD as a minimum spec. That’s despite the fact that Cyberpunk 2077 will require an SSD as part of its Phantom Liberty expansion, as well as Diablo 4 releasing with the minimum SSD spec.
PC gamers aren’t exactly great with change. Backward compatibility is a law, and user choice is everything, so it’s not surprising that game developers have held up to HDD support for as long as possible. It’s starting to become clear that high-speed storage doesn’t just lead to faster loading times, though. It’s a critical component in a next-gen ecosystem that can enable more vibrant and stable PC releases.
Case in point: RTX IO. I recently wrote about RTX IO in Portal: Prelude RTX , and it was clear that the storage tech vastly improved texture loading times and shrunk the install size of the game considerably. One part of RTX IO (as well as Microsoft’s DirectStorage) that isn’t being talked about as much is how it lowers CPU utilization, which can make games much more stable.
Here’s how Nyle Usmani, product manager at Nvidia, described it: “RTX IO alone cannot completely remove stutter, but it can be an aiding technology to help reduce stuttering. It can do so by scaling down the dependence on CPU compute when the need to load textures and geometries ‘faster’ is the cause of stuttering, and freeing up the CPU to work on other tasks.” That can make a big difference, especially in games that suffer from traversal stutter. For example, Redfall and Star Wars Jedi: Survivor both primarily run on two CPU cores, and as we’ve learned from the developers of Hi-Fi Rush , it’s very easy for these cores to become overloaded with work. When they’re overloaded, stutters happen, and the only way around that is to spread out the work. That’s what high-speed storage, along with features like RTX IO and DirectStorage, can accomplish.
A next-gen storage ecosystem Jacob Roach / Digital Trends A lot of this is the beginning stages of the storage interface we’ve seen in the Xbox Series X and PlayStation 5 for nearly three years.
 Especially in games that are exclusive to next-gen consoles, such as Star Wars Jedi: Survivor and Ratchet and Clank: Rift Apart, developers are taking advantage of that storage interface. There are much more PC gamers overall, but the most recent data shows that consoles are where the lion’s share of new games are sold. Naturally, developers are going to cater their games to those platforms and what they’re capable of.
This system of fast storage and next-gen features like RTX IO and DirectStorage works best with an SSD. If you’re familiar with DirectStorage, at least, you’ll know that it technically supports spinning hard drives. But that experience, at least based on the few games we’ve seen isn’t great.
That brings us back to Ratchet and Clank Rift Apart.
It is, by most accounts, a resounding success of a PC port. The game performs well across a wide range of hardware, it’s fully supported on Steam Deck, and it includes a slew of features including RTX IO, Nvidia Deep Learning Super Sampling (DLSS) , AMD FidelityFX Super Resolution (FSR) , and ray tracing.
It’s just the storage that’s the problem. Sure, the game falls apart on a slow, dated PS4 hard drive, but it also doesn’t work on a standard 7,200RPM hard drive despite being technically supported. I experienced three crashes in the first 30 minutes of the game, a variety of stutters over every invisible loading zone, and the hilarious display of slow loading you can see below on a 7,200 RPM WD Black HDD.
There isn’t much reliable data to gauge how many PC gamers are still rocking an HDD. If you fit into that group, though, it’s time for an upgrade. Not only do SSDs deliver much faster loading times, as we’ve seen for years, they’re becoming a critical part of your PC that allows games to look better and run more stably. Faster texture streaming means less pop-in and reduced CPU load means less stuttering, both of which have been key issues with PC ports in 2023.
There’s not much of an excuse now, either. A 2TB WD Black SN850X SSD is $110 at the time of writing. That’s the latest, fastest NVMe option from this line, sporting PCIe 4.0. A 2TB WC Black 7,200RPM spinning hard drive costs $93. It’s true that spinning hard drives are much cheaper when you scale up to 4TB and above, but for everything under 2TB, you’re spending around the same price on an SSD, and sometimes even less when they go on sale. That’s especially true of slower 2.5-inch SATA SSDs.
It’s not time to kill off hard drives entirely. They’re still a cheap way to store a lot of data long-term, and they’re a great option for movies, photos, music, and other media so you can keep your SSD just for your games. It’s becoming harder and harder to justify installing any game on a spinning hard drive, though, and as Ratchet and Clank Rift Apart proves, it leads to a much worse gameplay experience.
Editors' Recommendations Don’t believe the hype — the era of native resolution gaming isn’t over I can’t get excited about AMD’s next version of FSR anymore This ‘Swiss Army Knife’ app transformed how I play PC games The success of AMD’s FSR 3 hinges on this one feature Why I couldn’t live without an ultrawide gaming monitor Features PC Gaming ReSpec Computing I didn't expect much out of the Asus ROG Strix Scope II 96. The company impressed me earlier this year with the ROG Azoth, but the Strix Scope II 96 looked like a regression; a cheaper gaming keyboard designed for the mainstream, devoid of the enthusiast flair the company displayed with the Azoth. I'm happy I was wrong.
The Strix Scope II 96 can't rival building your own keyboard, nor the many premium options from brands like Keychron, but it raises the bar for what you should expect out of a mechanical gaming keyboard that costs $180. Not only does it come with modern features like hot-swappable switches and three connection modes, but it also sounds and feels great right out of the box. And that's coming from someone that winces at the sound of most mechanical gaming keyboards.
What makes it different? Computing Nvidia's most recent graphics cards have increasingly relied on Deep Learning Super Sampling (DLSS) 3 to find their value. GPUs like the RTX 4070 Ti and RTX 4060 Ti aren't impressive on their own, but factor DLSS 3 into the buying decision, and they start to become attractive. If you look at Nvidia's overall strategy for this generation of chips, it looks like the company has started selling DLSS, not graphics cards.
It's not hard to see why DLSS 3 is so important. It makes the impossible possible, like path tracing in Cyberpunk 2077, and it helps multiply frame rates far beyond what should be possible in games like Portal RTX. But now that we finally have DLSS 3 in more games and the party trick status has faded away, I've left Frame Generation off in most games. Here's why.
How DLSS 3 works Computing There's something so viscerally wrong about seeing Halo on a Mac. Apple's computers aren't known for gaming, sure, but Halo, in particular, looks out of place. It's Microsoft's star child, and it's the franchise Microsoft has hung its hat on for 22 years.
But the game was originally designed for the Mac, and now, you can play it right on your MacBook. Apple's recent Game Porting Toolkit makes all kinds of Windows games playable on the Mac -- in theory. Considering the franchise's storied history with Apple, I gave it a shot to see if the platform is ready for prime time and if I could fulfill the legacy of Halo as a game made specifically for the Mac.
Halo, the Mac exclusive? Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
