Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending in Computing: Best Dell Laptops ChatGPT Best Monitors Asus ROG Azoth Review How to delete a page in Word in 3 easy steps RTX 4080 vs RTX 4070 Ti Best Mac Apps AMD vs Intel Recall an Email in Outlook Home Computing Features How a viral bodycam game tricked the internet into thinking it was real footage By Jacob Roach Close It’s difficult for small game developers to make an impact in 2023, but Unrecord , a bodycam-style first-person shooter developed by the French game studio Drama, took the internet by storm over the past week. The first gameplay demo looked impossibly realistic, so much so that hundreds of heated opinions were quick to call the trailer fake.
Hiding imperfections The Unreal Engine 5 difference When realism matters It’s not, as proved by in-engine footage showcased by one of the developers. But it’s still hard to believe just how realistic Unrecord looks, and there’s a very good reason for that.
Hiding imperfections First early gameplay trailer for “UNRECORD”, the bodycam FPS. Wishlist on steam now! @unrecordgame pic.twitter.com/gVa7q0YOGu &mdash; Alexandre Spindler (@esankiy) April 19, 2023 You can see the demo, posted by programmer and co-director of Unrecord Alexandre Spindler, above. If it weren’t for some choppy animations, it would be easy to fool someone into thinking this was real footage. That’s certainly the assumption a lot of viewers came away with.
Windows is holding back the future of handheld gaming This ‘Swiss Army Knife’ app transformed how I play PC games The success of AMD’s FSR 3 hinges on this one feature It’s perspective that makes the difference, according to the developer of another game, Paranormal Tales , a bodycam-style horror game slotted for a 2023 release. “Footage from bodycam perspectives has become ever more prevalent over the last few years … it’s given us as developers a lot more material for hunting through to figure out just the right positioning and how, exactly, the camera should be moving.” we&#39;re making a hyper-realistic bodycam horror game in unreal engine 5.
you must find your lost dog in a pitch black forest.
pic.twitter.com/PHjJtEKjj1 &mdash; Paranormal Tales – Wishlist on Steam (@DontPlayPT) April 19, 2023 That’s doing a lot of the heavy lifting for Unrecord.
The only other time we see this type of bodycam footage is when it’s real. And especially in the U.>S, the public has seen far too much of it.
Movement is one area, but the quality of footage from a bodycam also plays a role. The developer of Paranormal Tales explained, “We’re trying to stay reminiscent of the video quality you’d see from an actual body camera, which means a layer of textured noise from a lower-quality sensor and a little fish-eye to give the wideness of the shot.” It seems Unrecord took that sentiment to the extreme. There’s a steep fish-eye and a ton of bloom around the brightest parts of the scene. Any time you see the sky, it’s completely washed-out in white, accounting for the limited dynamic range of a real bodycam.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Above all else, though, what sells Unrecord are the encoding artifacts. It’s important to remember that Unrecord went viral on Twitter, which is a platform notorious for low-quality video. That doubles down on making Unrecord look far more realistic, as it’s already trying to emulate a low-quality camera. If you download the high-quality demo, it’s a lot more obvious this is a game and not a real recording.
Even if you can spot the imperfections in high-quality footage, there’s an art to slathering a game in a layer of grime to more accurately emulate real life. That only works if you have high-quality assets and lighting, though, which is where Unreal Engine 5 comes into play.
The Unreal Engine 5 difference Epic Games We haven’t seen a ton of Unreal Engine 5 games yet, but I’ve already covered its potential in the past.
 A big reason why the new engine is so impressive is Lumen, and I suspect that’s at the heart of photorealism in Unrecord.
If you’re unfamiliar, Lumen is a software-based ray tracing solution. Normally, software-based ray tracing is far inferior to ray tracing run on dedicated accelerators available on graphics cards , but Lumen was created to make software ray tracing more efficient. It combines ray tracing with more traditional lighting techniques, and does so in a highly efficient manner. That’s why Fortnite with Lumen can run on current-gen consoles at 60 frames per second (fps).
I’ve reached out to the developer of Unrecord for clarity, but I’d be shocked if the game wasn’t leveraging Lumen in some way. And that lighting makes the difference. High-quality assets are easy to find with Unreal Engine — one developer even claims the demo was made with assets from the Unreal Marketplace — so it comes down to lighting and the camera to sell the realism of a scene.
According to the Paranormal Tales team, a narrow focus on photorealism can pay off. “We’re leaning very heavily on the features available to us in the engine from the outset and learning how to leverage them to the max. We’ve spent a lot more time getting to grips with real lighting profiles and replicating those in Lumen, which has led to a result that looks more physically correct.” Image used with permission by copyright holder The team also pointed to a lack of AI and a “constrained environment” as keys to maintaining performance with such high visual fidelity. We don’t have a lot to go on for Unrecord, but in the first trailer, it doesn’t seem as though the game has a massive scope, either.
Beyond providing better tools to achieve photorealism, the team behind Paranormal Tales says Unreal Engine 5 has “been a change of the guard” compared to the previous version. “Things that have been problematic in our experience have been thrown out wholesale and replaced with simpler and more structurally sound alternatives.” With the “technical debt chopped away,” the new engine seems particularly well-suited for getting games up and running quickly. The Paranormal Tales team says that only time will tell if the additions stand up to years of iteration, but at the moment, Unreal Engine 5 seems better suited for production compared to the later iterations of Unreal Engine 4.
When realism matters Between Paranormal Tales and Unrecord, it’s clear a new wave of developers are tapping into a perspective that leads to more photorealistic results. It’s an exciting time for PC graphics, as games start to enter an uncanny valley of realism, but it also carries a clear concern. And Unrecord put that on full display.
For those who thought Unrecord was fake or a video, sorry. 😌 pic.twitter.com/41ESKMISy1 &mdash; Alexandre Spindler (@esankiy) April 20, 2023 A trained eye can still spot when a game is a game, but Unrecord looks just good enough that, with a heavy layer of Twitter compression, it was able to fool legions of gamers into incorrectly assuming it was real footage. I don’t need to spell out how that could be problematic, especially considering the subject matter of Unrecord.
There’s plenty of discussion around that topic, and the developer has posted an FAQ attempting to clarify its stance. It’s true that this level of realism can be problematic, but it doesn’t look like any of that is stemming from the Unrecord development team.
It shouldn’t distract from the work that smaller studios are taking on to achieve higher levels of photorealism, either. With a leaner, meaner engine offering tools like Lumen to developers, along with a unique perspective and robust marketplace of high-quality assets, we’re seeing a major jump in just how realistic games can look.
This article is part of ReSpec – an ongoing biweekly column that includes discussions, advice, and in-depth reporting on the tech behind PC gaming.
Editors' Recommendations Don’t believe the hype — the era of native resolution gaming isn’t over I can’t get excited about AMD’s next version of FSR anymore Is a game poorly optimized, or just demanding? They’re not the same thing Why I leave Nvidia’s game-changing tech off in most games It’s time to stop trying to play games without an SSD Features PC Gaming ReSpec Computing There's something so viscerally wrong about seeing Halo on a Mac. Apple's computers aren't known for gaming, sure, but Halo, in particular, looks out of place. It's Microsoft's star child, and it's the franchise Microsoft has hung its hat on for 22 years.
But the game was originally designed for the Mac, and now, you can play it right on your MacBook. Apple's recent Game Porting Toolkit makes all kinds of Windows games playable on the Mac -- in theory. Considering the franchise's storied history with Apple, I gave it a shot to see if the platform is ready for prime time and if I could fulfill the legacy of Halo as a game made specifically for the Mac.
Halo, the Mac exclusive? Computing I'm worried. This past week, AMD announced it was the "exclusive PC partner" for the upcoming Starfield, working directly with Bethesda Game Studios to optimize the game for AMD hardware and getting AMD's FidelityFX Super Resolution (FSR) up and running in the game (the second, much better version, to be exact).
That's not a problem. It's a good thing. Nvidia and AMD routinely enter co-marketing arrangements with upcoming games. The company promotes the game or bundles a code with a new hardware purchase, and it usually dedicates some engineers to assist with getting features working in the game. Nvidia, for example, recently offered a copy of Diablo IV with the purchase of select RTX 40-series GPUs, and the game supports Nvidia's latest version of Deep Learning Super Sampling (DLSS).
Computing When looking at the state of PC releases in 2023, it's easy to start pointing fingers. The game isn't optimized (whatever that means), or the publisher rushed it out too quickly, or the graphics cards Nvidia has been selling us come with too little VRAM. But these accusations, in most cases, are half-baked and presumptuous, and although they hint at reality, they don't tell the full story.
I wanted to know what was actually going on, so I sat down with a few developers to understand the state of PC games and why so many releases have arrived with such big problems. More importantly, I wanted to know what developers and publishers could do to solve these issues, and although the path forward isn't clear, it's becoming obvious that developers know there's a problem.
What's the problem? Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
