Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending in Computing: Best Dell Laptops ChatGPT Best Monitors Asus ROG Azoth Review How to delete a page in Word in 3 easy steps RTX 4080 vs RTX 4070 Ti Best Mac Apps AMD vs Intel Recall an Email in Outlook Home Computing Features Why playing Marvel’s Spider-Man on an AMD GPU is such a disappointment By Jacob Roach Close I’ve been singing the praises of AMD’s FSR 2.0 ( FidelityFX Super Resolution 2.0) since I first saw it in Deathloop.
It’s a great performance-boosting tool, and going into testing of Marvel’s Spider-Man PC port, I was expecting to see it close the gap between playing the game on an AMD GPU versus Nvidia.
A litmus test for FSR 2.0 The upsides of machine learning Still a strong performer Prompting an update But Marvel’s Spider-Man PC port shows a different side of gaming on AMD — and unfortunately, it’s one that doesn’t look nearly as impressive by comparison.
A litmus test for FSR 2.0 Image used with permission by copyright holder Marvel’s Spider-Man is a much different FSR 2.0 game. Since launch, five games have FSR 2.0 support: Chernobylite, Deathloop, Farming Simulator 22, God of War , and Tiny Tina’s Wonderlands.
Sony’s latest port is a different beast entirely. Not only is it an open-world game with a vast skyline of buildings, it’s also extremely fast.
This ‘Swiss Army Knife’ app transformed how I play PC games Why I leave Nvidia’s game-changing tech off in most games With exclusive PC partnerships, everyone loses Zipping through the island of Manhattan is as fun as ever on PC, but FSR 2.0 puts a damper on the experience. Every zip forward results in a complete drop in image quality as FSR 2.0 struggles to fill in the missing detail. Pixel peeping is one thing, but there’s a noticeable drop in resolution every time you boost forward while flying around the city. And if there’s anything you’re going to do a lot of in Marvel’s Spider-Man, it’s fly around the city.
For a brief moment, this is what you’ll see even at 4K with motion blur turned off.
Image used with permission by copyright holder In fairness, this drop is something Nvidia’s own DLSS (Deep Learning Super Sampling) implementation also struggles with in Marvel ‘ s Spider-Man, too, which you can see in the screenshot below. It’s much less severe than FSR 2.0, though, and it’s tough to spot in motion.
DLSS shows some artifacts, particularly around the webs, but they’re not nearly as severe.
Image used with permission by copyright holder FSR 2.0 has proved itself a worthy alternative to DLSS, especially when you factor in the lackluster image quality of FSR 1.0.
Marvel’s Spider-Man suggests that it might not be an equal comparison, though. Ever since we saw Temporal Super Resolution (TSR) in Ghostwire Tokyo , I’ve been ready to move on to general-purpose temporal supersampling that doesn’t require specific hardware. But Marvel’s Spider-Man is a sign that DLSS still has an edge in some cases.
DLSS, FSR 2.0, and developer-made tools like IGTI in Spider-Man are all based around temporal (time-based) data. Previous frames provide the information necessary for the supersampling in upcoming frames.
Lower image quality is a side of AMD’s supersampling tool we haven’t seen yet.
When you’re boosting forward in a game like Spider-Man, though, there’s just not enough detail, leading to the drop off in resolution (or what you might call temporal artifacts). FSR 2.0’s set algorithm can’t keep up with these boosts, while DLSS seems able to extract more detail with its machine learning backbone.
That doesn’t mean you should throw out FSR 2.0.
Marvel’s Spider-Man is a litmus test, and it’s pushing FSR 2.0 to its limits. FSR 2.0 is still incredibly impressive, and in most games, it’s just as good as DLSS. But, there may be downsides in image quality in rare cases, which is a side of AMD’s latest supersampling tool we haven’t seen yet.
The upsides of machine learning Although TSR and FSR 2.0 are remarkably close to DLSS in terms of image quality, Nvidia’s A.I.-driven tech still has advantages.
Marvel’s Spider-Man exposes that, not with DLSS itself, but with the newer Deep Learning Anti-Aliasing (DLAA).
Sony Interactive Entertainment DLAA is basically DLSS with the upscaling removed. It has the same backbone as DLSS, but the game runs at the native resolution of your monitor. It’s supposed to make a native image sharper, not make a lower resolution image look like it’s native. And as you can see in the screenshot above, DLAA makes a pretty big difference.
This is something that hasn’t been done with algorithm-based anti-aliasing so far, adding more evidence that Nvidia’s insistence on machine learning isn’t all hot air.
Still a strong performer Image used with permission by copyright holder If you’re picking up Marvel’s Spider-Man, you have three options for a performance boost: DLSS, FSR 2.0, and Isomniac’s own IGTI. Isomniac’s tool is actually behind the game’s built-in dynamic resolution option, but the developer decided to expose the setting on PC even if you don’t want to use dynamic resolution. That’s great.
FSR 2.0 may struggle with the speed of Spider-Man, but it still puts up numbers. In fact, this is the first time I’ve seen it clearly beat DLSS (if only by a bit).
IGTI provides the best performance, but it’s not worth the trade-off in image quality. You can see all of the tools side-by-side with their Ultra Performance presets below, and IGTI is by far the worst.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Otherwise, the three tools are tight. From Quality to Ultra Performance presets, they’re all within a couple of frames of each other. IGTI may be similar to FSR 1.0 in image quality, and FSR 2.0 may struggle with fast motion in Marvel’s Spider-Man.
But there’s no denying that players are spoiled with performance-boosting options that aren’t always present in PC ports.
Prompting an update Image used with permission by copyright holder Marvel’s Spider-Man pushes FSR 2.0 to its limits, and we’re finally seeing the supersampling tool reach that wall. During my testing period, Insomniac actually patched FSR 2.0 support to improve image quality, and there’s still more work to be done. This might be a sign that adding FSR 2.0 to a game might not be as straightforward as we thought for certain games.
Hopefully, AMD will continue to refine its algorithm to handle intense motion such as what Marvel’s Spider-Man imposes. There’s no denying that FSR 2.0 is an extremely impressive tool that finally puts some heat on DLSS. But it’s not perfect, and the relatively slow adoption rate means we haven’t seen it under pressure in a wide range of games.
If you have an Nvidia GPU, I recommend using DLSS. If you don’t, FSR 2.0 is still a solid option — just try to aim for the higher fidelity performance modes.
As I wrote about in my previous ReSpec entry, FSR 2.0 still has amazing potential , and Marvel’s Spider-Man doesn’t change that. But this port pushes FSR 2.0 to its limits and shows where there is still work to be done.
This article is part of ReSpec – an ongoing biweekly column that includes discussions, advice, and in-depth reporting on the tech behind PC gaming.
Editors' Recommendations I can’t get excited about AMD’s next version of FSR anymore The success of AMD’s FSR 3 hinges on this one feature It’s time to stop trying to play games without an SSD I asked developers to explain why PC ports in 2023 run like garbage The worst PC ports of all time — and why they were so bad Comic Book Movies Features Marvel PC Gaming ReSpec Computing 2022 was a roller coaster for GPU prices. Prices started high, with the crypto boom on the verge of collapse, they crashed around the middle of the year, and now GPU prices are holding steady at much more reasonable costs. Or, at least, compared to the massively inflated prices we saw during the GPU shortage.
We're not in another GPU shortage, but I've still received a handful of messages from readers concerned with how expensive GPUs are right now. As we kick off 2023, I wanted to take a look at the current state of the GPU market and where it might be headed, but more importantly, to decipher the difference between high GPU prices and a true shortage.
No GPU shortage here Computing 2022 was a big year for PC game releases, for better and worse. We saw remarkable achievements in fidelity in titles like Dying Light 2, but also fundamentally broken PC ports like Gotham Knights. As 2022 closes out, I wanted to take a look back at the best and worst PC games we saw in the past year.
Keep in mind that ReSpec is a technical column -- I'm focused on the technical aspects of PC releases, not necessarily my favorite games overall. Elden Ring, for example, won our best games of 2022 roundup, and it's a personal favorite. But it doesn't show up in this list in quite the same light.
Best: Portal RTX Computing Marvel's Spider-Man Miles Morales is available on PC, following up on the smash success of the base game, Marvel's Spider-Man, on PC earlier this year. Like the original release, Miles Morales is packed with the latest PC gaming tech and smoothly polished to run on different hardware. It's a great PC port. Except for DLSS 3 Frame Generation, that is.
Nvidia's latest upscaling tech joins Intel XeSS and AMD FidelityFX Super Resolution (FSR) in Miles Morales. They're all great upscaling options, but the unique frame-generation capabilities of DLSS 3 are a sore point. If you plan on picking up Miles Morales on PC, make sure to keep DLSS Frame Generation turned off to avoid an occasional mess of AI image generation.
AI-generated issues Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
