Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending in Computing: Best Dell Laptops ChatGPT Best Monitors Asus ROG Azoth Review How to delete a page in Word in 3 easy steps RTX 4080 vs RTX 4070 Ti Best Mac Apps AMD vs Intel Recall an Email in Outlook Home Computing Features Windows is holding back the future of handheld gaming By Jacob Roach Close Image used with permission by copyright holder I’ve used most of the handheld gaming PCs that have released this year, but I always go back to my Steam Deck.
 It’s not the most powerful, it has some quirks, and I still struggle with a frustrating bug that can drain the battery in minutes. But it’s still the best handheld gaming PC you can buy, and that’s due in large part to the fact that it doesn’t run on Windows like other handhelds.
We’ve been here before But wait, there’s more There’s an answer Master of none It’s not that I don’t like Windows. As a PC hardware nerd, I’m well aware of both the benefits and idiosyncrasies of PC gaming. Things don’t always work the way you expect them to, and that’s just part of the process to get the best gaming experience possible. When it comes to this evolving form factor of handheld gaming PCs , however, those issues are amplified and pushed to their breaking point.
We’ve been here before Microsoft When it comes down to it, the problem with Windows-based handhelds is simple: you can’t take a desktop operating system and force it onto a handheld. For as flexible as Windows is, it presents a slew of issues for handheld PCs. Overlays conflict with each other, any management options are restricted to a tiny touchscreen, and modern comforts like suspending a game aren’t even a thought. We need a dedicated version of Windows for these types of handhelds, but Microsoft doesn’t have a great track record on that front.
Steam Deck OLED fixes the worst part of Valve’s handheld This is the one accessory every Steam Deck owner should buy This ‘Swiss Army Knife’ app transformed how I play PC games Microsoft has tried to make a “lite” version of Windows for decades. That’s not an exaggeration. Attempts at a mobile version of Windows date back to 2000 with Pocket PC, and since then, we have seen various forms of Windows for tablets and mobile. For the most part, these versions only saw a couple of releases on a few niche devices before dying out entirely.
The latest example of Microsoft’s attempts is the ill-fated Windows 10X.
 This lightweight version of Windows 10 was supposed to launch for dual-screen tablets, but it was canceled in 2021. Some features worked their way into Windows 10, and we can see remnants of the update in Windows 11 ’s enhanced tablet mode on devices like the Surface Laptop Studio 2.
Even with glimmers of a stripped-down version of Windows, we haven’t seen Microsoft do it successfully durin g its decades of attempts. I have no doubt that Microsoft will continue to iterate, and we might one day get the lite version of Windows that Microsoft has promised for years. Still, we’re long past the point of waiting for that to happen, and it’s time to move on.
Microsoft There is one area where Microsoft has successfully adapted Windows to another form factor, though, and that’s Xbox. Microsoft originally based its Xbox System Software on Windows 8 with the release of the Xbox One before moving on to Windows 10 Core a few years later. This core operating system was the basis for several other versions of Windows, including versions for HoloLens and the Surface Hub.
This alone shows that Microsoft can make an adaptable OS that can fit into several form factors. For handheld gaming PCs , though, we just don’t have a specific version. Instead, devices like the Asus ROG Ally , Lenovo Legion Go , and Ayaneo 2S are pushing ahead with a desktop version of Windows 11 that doesn’t fit the purpose of these devices — and that’s where the problems stem from.
But wait, there’s more Microsoft If Microsoft can make a stripped-down version of Windows for handheld gaming PCs , why don’t we have it? Microsoft certainly tried to bring Windows to every device with its initial Xbox push, but it seems that effort has all but died after a string of hardware failures.
Windows Core was built around Universal Windows Platform (UWP) apps. This format allowed developers to ship apps to all versions of Windows, including those running on Xbox, with a single file. It was the building block for something great: an ecosystem of Windows that works across devices with the same apps. Microsoft has slowly dismantled this ecosystem over the past several years, though.
Windows Phone died out, the ambitious HoloLens project shifted to a sole enterprise focus, and UWP apps on PC slowly faded away due to Microsoft shutting down its ad platform for UWP. Now, we’re in a spot where Microsoft still supports some UWP apps, but the much larger pool of games available on Windows are traditional Win32 apps.
The original idea behind a core version of Windows would have allowed Microsoft to quickly adapt a new version to fulfill the needs of the growing market for handheld gaming PCs.
 With the mishmash of features and support we have now, though, it’s no wonder that most devices opt for the full desktop version of Windows 11 instead. At the very least, you can ensure that most games will run on the device without issues. It’s a laptop, just with a controller instead of a keyboard and trackpad.
That difference couldn’t be more important.
Windows 11 works on handhelds like the ROG Ally , and that’s a feat alone. But there’s one device that truly understands the importance of software for this emerging form factor: the Steam Deck.
There’s an answer Jacob Roach / Digital Trends There’s another platform that’s highly modular and adaptable to different form factors: Linux. From smart devices to full desktops to Android , the basis of so many different devices is Linux. That flexibility makes it a perfect partner for handheld gaming PCs.
That’s likely why Valve chose to use its own SteamOS instead of Windows on the Steam Deck. This isn’t an entirely new operating system developed by Valve; SteamOS 3 is based on Arch Linux, which is a popular distribution of Linux. It also bundles Valve’s Proton compatibility layer to get Windows apps running on Linux. This, too, is based on the existing Wine application for Linux.
Valve didn’t get SteamOS right immediately. Original versions were limited in features and showed worse performance compared to native Windows apps. Now, however, SteamOS 3 can not only match Windows in the vast majority of games, but it can even exceed Windows in some cases. We’ve seen that with the Steam Deck and ROG Ally , where the ROG Ally’s performance doesn’t scale in the way its hardware advantage would suggest.
Jacob Roach / Digital Trends There are limitations of Valve’s approach, with third-party storefronts not always working and games with anti-cheat software refusing to run. However, there’s enough support. Unlike Microsoft’s approach with the Windows Core, Valve has a robust ecosystem of software and features already built into Steam. Those came before SteamOS 3, not the other way around.
There are some clear advantages to Valve’s approach, too. For starters, you’re able to properly suspend the system while playing a game. That’s huge for handheld gaming, and it’s an aspect of devices like the ROG Ally and Ayaneo 2S that’s almost universally glossed over. In addition, you have a single home base for the software. On Windows-based devices, you have a string of utilities and overlays that can conflict with each other, with each fighting for a top slot on the screen.
Even after spending an hour with a device like the ROG Ally, the advantage of a purpose-built handheld operating system becomes clear. That’s why the Steam Deck has so much staying power, and how it remains such a popular device even when faster devices — like the ROG Ally — are available for a reasonable price.
Master of none Jacob Roach / Digital Trends The amount of software available for Windows in unmatched, which is the biggest strength of the operating system and also its biggest weakness. Microsoft needs to cater to the many different ways people use Windows, which means devices dedicated to a particular type of users (i.e., gamers) often don’t get all of the attention they deserve.
I’m still hopeful we’ll see a stripped-back version of Windows 11 in the future that can make devices like the ROG Ally stand above the Steam Deck. I’d happily jump ship. For now, though, developers need a way to cater to a specific type of user, and that way is Linux, not Windows.
Editors' Recommendations What reviews didn’t say about the Steam Deck OLED Don’t believe the hype — the era of native resolution gaming isn’t over I can’t get excited about AMD’s next version of FSR anymore You’ll have to wait a long time for a Steam Deck 2 WD’s new SSD is the Steam Deck upgrade you’ve been waiting for Features Microsoft Microsoft Windows PC Gaming ReSpec Computing "The game is poorly optimized on PC," is a phrase I've heard probably 100 times this year alone. It holds some weight. This has been a terrible year for PC releases -- in an otherwise fantastic year for games overall -- and that largely comes down to how games are optimized for the platform. But "optimization," as a term, is tossed around so often that it feels like a lot of gamers are losing sight of what PC optimization actually means.
Most recently, a Bloomberg reporter asked Starfield director Todd Howard the fairly ignorant question: "Why did you not optimize this game for PC?" Howard's response, which I happen to agree with, was simple. "Uh ... we did," he said.
Computing By nearly all objective measures, the ROG Ally is better than the Steam Deck. It has solid battery life, a nicer screen, more power, and Windows 11, allowing it to access a much wider library of games than the Steam Deck offers. After four months of using both devices, though, I'm fine keeping my Steam Deck.
That might surprise you, especially if you caught my ROG Ally review when I first took a look at the device nearly four months ago. I even tried replacing my desktop with the device on the strength of Asus' impressive XG Mobile. But after using the ROG Ally for just about every purpose possible, I've been picking up my Steam Deck to play games.
What you want, what you need Computing AMD finally shared more details on its FidelityFX Super Resolution 3 (FSR 3) this week, and it's exactly what everyone was asking for. It supports frame generation, and it works across GPUs from AMD and Nvidia. The company is even releasing a driver-based version of its Fluid Motion Frames tech, potentially enabling game support for thousands of titles. It's all good stuff.
But a big question remains: How is AMD going to deal with latency? Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
