Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending in Computing: Best Dell Laptops ChatGPT Best Monitors Asus ROG Azoth Review How to delete a page in Word in 3 easy steps RTX 4080 vs RTX 4070 Ti Best Mac Apps AMD vs Intel Recall an Email in Outlook Home Computing Features The worst PC ports of all time — and why they were so bad By Jacob Roach Close It’s been a bad year for PC ports so far, but it’s easy to forget that PCs have never been the premier platform for game releases. There’s a storied history of terrible PC ports, and although we’re still seeing some big problems today, the games releasing now are a far cry from what we’ve seen in years past.
Batman Arkham Knight Dark Souls: Prepare to Die Edition The Last of Us Part 1 Fallout: New Vegas Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas Resident Evil 4 I figured it was a good time to look back at some of the worst PC ports we’ve seen. This isn’t an exhaustive list — there are dozens of games that have released broken on PC — but these are the worst offenders. In some areas, we’ve made a ton of progress, and in others, unfortunately not so much.
Batman Arkham Knight Image used with permission by copyright holder Let’s deal with Batman Arkham Knight first because it has become the poster child of bad PC ports since it released in 2015. That’s mainly due to the media frenzy the port caused, which forced the publisher to remove the game from digital storefronts for four months while it worked on fixes.
23% of PC gamers probably can’t play Alan Wake 2. Here’s why I can’t get excited about AMD’s next version of FSR anymore This ‘Swiss Army Knife’ app transformed how I play PC games You can sum up the problems with the port as poor performance, but that doesn’t get at how disastrous this release was at launch. There was unavoidable stuttering and hitching, mainly due to how the game managed assets in memory. On lower-end systems, this could cause hitches that lasted several seconds during gameplay — and they were constant.
The PC hardware of today can overcome these problems, with much larger VRAM allocations to deal with issues. The situation with Arkham Knight is not dissimilar from what we see in PC ports today, where a console version developed for a unified memory architecture struggles to adapt the game with the split nature of memory on PCs.
After a four-month hiatus, Batman Arkham Knight showed back up on digital storefronts. Some issues were addressed, but even today, the game struggles with hitching and stuttering. The developer has formerly ended support for game, leaving it up to the community to fix the performance problems through a slew of mods. The game, in this state, is still available for sale today.
Dark Souls: Prepare to Die Edition Image used with permission by copyright holder Dark Souls: Prepare to Die Edition usually isn’t far behind Arkham Knight when talking about bad PC ports, though its problems were a bit different. It didn’t launch with severe performance issues, but it was a marked downgrade over the console version of the game and carried a lot of caveats.
Most concerningly, the game was locked to an internal resolution of 1,024 x 720, regardless of what the resolution of your display was. It could not go higher. To make matters worse, the game was locked to 30 frames per second (fps). Attempts to unlock the frame rate without a dedicated mod would introduce major issues in gameplay.
That’s not all. The game suffered from audio bugs, on-screen elements using low-resolution textures, basically no keyboard and mouse support, Games for Windows Live integration, and no graphics options. The game was eventually delisted from Steam and replaced by Dark Souls Remastered.
It still suffers some issues, mostly due to tying the frame rate to the speed of the game, though it’s not nearly as bad as the original release.
The Last of Us Part 1 Reddit / Zerindo The most recent game here, The Last of Us Part 1 is an anomaly even among the string of bad PC ports we’ve seen this year. The biggest problem with the game is VRAM. Even at 1080p, the game can chew through 10GB of VRAM at its Ultra preset, forcing recent, powerful GPUs like the RTX 4060 Ti to deal with major stuttering issues or lower quality settings.
That’s with the version we have today, too. At launch, the situation was much worse. VRAM limitations would often cause the game to crash, and the process for precompiling shaders could takes hours (it should take no more than 10 minutes). Mouse acceleration also caused jittery movement if you weren’t using a controller, and a slew of bugs created some bizarre effects where hair would render several times or characters would suddenly become drenched in water during cutscenes. To make matters worse, developer Naughty Dog originally promised the game would be verified for the Steam Deck. At launch, the game struggled to maintain solid performance on even an RTX 4090.
At the time of writing, the game has received 10 updates since it launched, mostly focused on fixing long shader compilation times and the most severe crashes. The game is in a better spot, but it’s still remarkably broken. The most recent patch, released about a week before this article came out, fixed a crash for all Intel Arc graphics cards on boot. Yikes.
It seems, at least, that the developer is continuing to work on the game. We don’t have the hindsight with this one as we do with some of the other ports on this list, but hopefully the game becomes at least playable in the future.
Fallout: New Vegas Fallout: New Vegas Image used with permission by copyright holder Fallout: New Vegas isn’t a port, technically. It’s a PC version that was ported to console. This might be a controversial opinion because, outside of a wide range of bugs that are common among Bethesda’s Creation Engine, the PC version of Fallout: New Vegas has decent graphics options, solid performance, and no weird texture-streaming or related issues. It had problems at launch, but it was shortly patched after.
The problem? You can’t play the game today on a modern system. That’s hardly a problem that’s unique to Fallout: New Vegas, especially among 2010-era games, but most of Bethesda’s releases thrive on their longevity (cue some tired joke about Skyrim rereleases). If you buy Fallout: New Vegas today, you can’t just install and play the game.
Thankfully, there’s a mod that will patch the game to work on modern systems, and with it, it runs like a treat. It’s just such a shame that a game that is widely considered one of the best RPGs ever made is unplayable on PC without a mod.
Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas Image used with permission by copyright holder I’m picking Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas here, but basically every GTA release short of Grand Theft Auto V has seen major issues on PC. For this one, and all of the PlayStation 2-era games, there are a few high-level issues. The games stretch the image at widescreen aspect ratios, and they’re locked to 25 fps. Even modding the game to unlock the frame rate isn’t possible, completely breaking physics, animation, and collision in the game.
San Andreas has some unique problems of its own, vastly downgraded compared to the original PS2 version. Reflections and lighting won’t render at certain points, the moon doesn’t have any phases, and pedestrians and cars on the street will either show up broken or not at all. There are also crashes with things as mundane as standing near an escalator, along with save corruption issues, where loading a save will start a new game and overwrite your original file.
The only way to get San Andreas working today is with some intense modding.
 Developer Rockstar eventually rereleased the game as part of the Grand Theft Auto: The Trilogy bundle, which carried its own list of problems at launch. It’s been patched into a better state, but if you’re hoping to play a classic GTA game today, it’s probably a good idea to play it on a PS2 instead.
Resident Evil 4 Capcom The 2023 remake of Resident Evil 4 had some issues at launch, but they’re nowhere near as bad as the port we saw in 2007. The PC version didn’t use the original GameCube release of the game, instead opting for the PS2 version, which featured blurry textures and a low resolution for prerendered cutscenes. In short, they used the worse version of the game as a bedrock for the port.
Somehow, it got even worse on PC. The original lighting from the console versions wasn’t present, making everything look flat, and there was no support for keyboard and mouse whatsoever (hilariously, though, you could only close the game with a keyboard or mouse). Even worse, the game would show generic buttons in its many quick-time events, forcing players to guess or memorize which buttons were correct. As if the game wasn’t unplayable enough, it also suffered a variety of crashes that weren’t present on consoles.
A full seven years later, publisher Capcom outsourced a new version to a different developer.
Resident Evil 4 Ultimate HD Edition is the only version you can buy today, and it fixes most of the major issues of the original PC port. It still has a few problems, but it’s at least playable.
Editors' Recommendations Don’t believe the hype — the era of native resolution gaming isn’t over Windows is holding back the future of handheld gaming It’s time to stop ignoring your motherboard when building a PC Is a game poorly optimized, or just demanding? They’re not the same thing The success of AMD’s FSR 3 hinges on this one feature Features PC Gaming ReSpec Computing Nvidia's most recent graphics cards have increasingly relied on Deep Learning Super Sampling (DLSS) 3 to find their value. GPUs like the RTX 4070 Ti and RTX 4060 Ti aren't impressive on their own, but factor DLSS 3 into the buying decision, and they start to become attractive. If you look at Nvidia's overall strategy for this generation of chips, it looks like the company has started selling DLSS, not graphics cards.
It's not hard to see why DLSS 3 is so important. It makes the impossible possible, like path tracing in Cyberpunk 2077, and it helps multiply frame rates far beyond what should be possible in games like Portal RTX. But now that we finally have DLSS 3 in more games and the party trick status has faded away, I've left Frame Generation off in most games. Here's why.
How DLSS 3 works Computing Everyone owes Sony an apology. When the PS5 was announced and Ratchet and Clank: Rift Apart was shown off as exclusive for the platform, there was a barrage of finger-pointing at Sony over the game's next-gen exclusive status. The argument from Sony was that the game required the PS5's world-class storage interface, and anything less simply wouldn't work.
Now that the game is available on PC, I can see exactly what Sony was referencing. As you can see from Digital Foundry's first look at the game, it simply doesn't work on the PS4's slow, 5,400RPM hard drive.
Computing You wouldn't suspect that a mod like Portal: Prelude RTX would debut such a major piece of kit for the future of PC gaming. But lo and behold -- it's the first game we've seen with Nvidia's new RTX IO, a feature that was announced nearly three years ago.
It's not as flashy as ray tracing or DLSS, operating in the background and offering a slew of benefits without drawing attention to them. But according to my testing, RTX IO may have a bigger impact on PC gaming than any other RTX features.
What is RTX IO? Portal: Prelude RTX | RTX IO Off vs On Comparison – Cake Scene Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
