Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending in Computing: Best Dell Laptops ChatGPT Best Monitors Asus ROG Azoth Review How to delete a page in Word in 3 easy steps RTX 4080 vs RTX 4070 Ti Best Mac Apps AMD vs Intel Recall an Email in Outlook Home Computing Deals Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? This Samsung 34-inch WQHD ultrawide gaming monitor is $600 off By Aaron Mamiit Close Jacob Roach / Digital Trends The machine that you purchased from gaming PC deals should be paired with a display that will give justice to its power. If you haven’t upgraded from a basic screen, you should think about taking advantage of Best Buy’s $600 discount for the 34-inch Samsung Odyssey G8 OLED gaming monitor. As one of the retailer’s early Black Friday deals , it’s down to $900 from $1,500, but probably not for long because we expect a lot of interest in this bargain. You need to hurry with your purchase if you’re interested, because stocks of this gaming monitor may already be running low.
Why you should buy the 34-inch Samsung Odyssey G8 OLED gaming monitor The Samsung Odyssey G8 OLED gaming monitor features a 34-inch curved screen with WQHD resolution for sharp details and more field of vision while you play the best PC games , and OLED technology that creates perfect black levels, supports wide viewing angles, and enables lightning-fast response times. For this gaming monitor , response time is at 0.03ms, and when paired with a 175Hz refresh rate, you’ll be enjoying near-instant reaction times and smooth gameplay. It also comes with AMD’s FreeSync Premium Pro , which eliminates screen tearing and stuttering.
You can connect the Samsung Odyssey G8 OLED gaming monitor to your PC through either its USB-C or Micro HDMI 2.1 ports, but you can play video games without a computer or console because the monitor comes with the Samsung Gaming Hub.
 The monitor can also function as a smart TV, as it can jump onto your home’s Wi-Fi network for access to all of the popular streaming services.
Black Friday is here early for those who are looking for monitor deals , as Best Buy slashed the price of the 34-inch Samsung Odyssey G8 OLED gaming monitor by $600. Instead of $1,500, you’ll only have to pay $900 for this amazing display, but you’ll have to complete the transaction as soon as possible. There’s no telling if the offer will remain online until the shopping holiday, so if you want to get the 34-inch Samsung Odyssey G8 OLED gaming monitor for much cheaper than usual, you shouldn’t hesitate with the purchase.
Editors' Recommendations Best Black Friday gaming laptop deals: Cheapest prices today The best gaming PC Black Friday deals you can shop right now Best 4K monitor Black Friday deals from Samsung, Dell, LG, and more The best 5K monitor Black Friday deals from Apple, LG, and more The best gaming laptop deals in Best Buy’s Black Friday sale Deals Gaming Samsung Computing Do you do a lot of work on the go, in hotel rooms or Airbnbs? Whatever the case may be for you, don't miss out on the potential savings from this year's Black Friday deals. There are discounts for portable monitors made by popular brands like Acer, Lenovo, Asus, and Dell, and to help you decide what to purchase, we've highlighted our favorite offer below as well as several of the top portable monitor deals that you can shop right now. You need to hurry though -- some of these bargains may be ending soon, so if you don't want to miss out, select the portable monitor that you want to add to your arsenal and proceed with the transaction as soon as you can.
Best portable monitor Black Friday deal For an affordable but dependable portable monitor that you can use with devices such as laptops, video game consoles, and digital cameras, go for the 15.6-inch Acer AOPEN 16PM1Q Full HD portable monitor. The screen shows lifelike colors and sharp details, alongside a wide viewing angle of up to 170 degrees thanks to its IPS panel technology, and AOPEN Eye Protection that reduces eye strain through real-time color adjustments. The portable monitor can connect through its USB-C or Mini HDMI port, and it can fit anywhere with a thickness of just 0.4 of an inch. From an already relatively cheap sticker price of $130, you can get the 15.6-inch Acer AOPEN 16PM1Q Full HD portable monitor for just $100 from Best Buy following a $30 discount for Black Friday.
Computing Acer is one of the most trusted brands for laptops and monitors, so it's not a surprise that there's always high demand when its products appear in Black Friday deals. With prices ranging from affordable to premium, there's something for you no matter your budget, but if you've got an eye on one of Acer's more popular devices, it's highly recommended that you proceed with the purchase immediately because we're not sure how long stocks will last. We've gathered our favorite Acer Black Friday deals to help you make a quick decision, so don't hesitate with pushing through with the transaction if something catches your eye.
Acer laptop Black Friday deals Acer is offering Chromebooks and laptops across all budget ranges, so you can take your pick if you just need a device to perform basic functions or a machine that will handle demanding tasks. You should check our laptop buying guide to figure out what specifications you should be aiming for, but at the very least, you know that you'll be getting great value if you take advantage of Acer laptop Black Friday deals.
Computing If you're still using an outdated display on your work or school computer, it may be time to make an upgrade by purchasing from monitor deals. You don't have to spend hundreds of dollars to get a reliable screen though, as there are affordable options like the 27-inch Samsung CF396 Series curved monitor. From an already relatively cheap price of $149, it's available for $129 from Walmart. Savings of $20 isn't much, but you might as well take it if you're on the hunt for a new monitor, but you have to buy it now as the offer may expire at any moment.
Why you should buy the 27-inch Samsung CF396 Series curved monitor With its affordable price, you shouldn't expect the Samsung CF396 Series curved monitor to match the performance and features of the best monitors in the market. However, it's still a pretty decent display for completing work tasks or school assignments, as well as for casual gaming and watching streaming shows whenever you're getting some much-needed rest and recreation. The 27-inch screen with Full HD resolution falls within our computer monitor buying guide's recommended range of 24 inches to 32 inches, while the 1800R curvature makes looking at the display more immersive as it gives you a wider field of vision.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
