Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Audio / Video Deals Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Samsung’s Galaxy Buds Live earbuds are $80 off right now By John Alexander Close Andy Boxall/Digital Trends / .
In the world of headphones and earbuds, the Samsung Galaxy Buds Live play a truly unique role. Today, they’re on sale at Best Buy for just $70, down $80 from the usual $150. They’re trailblazers, of sorts, that take a different path than many other earbuds we see today. And that path, which we will describe in much more detail further, is the path of the bean. The unique kidney bean shape results in something that you’ll either really love for their uniqueness or really hate, so be sure to take your time when analyzing this deal. But don’t take too much time, as this deal — accessible by tapping the button below — ends tonight.
Why you should buy the Samsung Galaxy Buds Live Why do most people like the Samsung Galaxy Buds Live (they average a nearly 4.5 at Best Buy after thousands of reviews) while our in-house Samsung Galaxy Buds Live review took time to be more critical? It’s likely due to the unique kidney bean shape that either suits your ear or doesn’t. When inserted properly, the Samsung Galaxy Buds Live sit securely in the outer part of your ear. If you’ve ever had the experience of your ear hurting from having worn earbuds for too long, the insides of your ear being stretched for too long, these will feel great in comparison. If your ear’s shape doesn’t allow for it, on the other hand, they might feel awkward or lose. The bottom line is that most people really like these, pointing out the comfort they feel wearing them after a short adjustment period.
The Samsung Galaxy Buds Live come in four colors; black, blue, a “bronze” rose gold, and white, though the black color appears to be sold out at this time. They have an 8 hour battery life after being fully charged and, of course, come with a charging case. Active noise cancellation is available at the tap of a finger and an optional, always-on voice assistant is ready to receive your commands via voice.
If, after mulling it over, you’ve decided that the Samsung Galaxy Buds Live are something you can adapt to, get a lot out of, and thrive with, please tap the button below. You’ll find the Samsung Galaxy Buds Live’s page on the online Best Buy store where they cost just $70, $80 down from the usual $150. That’s if you haven’t missed the sale, however, as it is ending tonight, so be sure to check this deal out immediately. If you’ve decided the unique kidney bean shape isn’t for you, check out our listing of the best wireless earbuds to recalibrate your expectations for your next purchase.
Editors' Recommendations I recommend shopping this Black Friday TV deal right now The best early Black Friday headphone and earbud deals now Best Samsung TV Black Friday Deals: Save on 4K and 8K TVs now All the Samsung Frame TV Black Friday deals happening now 55-inch Samsung 4K TV is under $300 in Walmart’s Black Friday sale Deals Samsung Audio / Video Walmart just launched their early access Black Friday deals selection. For you, that means big savings on everything and some of the coolest early Black Friday deals available. For instance, you can get this complete surround sound home theater system, including speakers, a soundbar, and subwoofer, for just $139. Normally, it'd be $239, so this deal will save you $100. The only catch is that you'll have to be a Walmart+ member, but since you can get a Walmart+ free trial, that won't even be a bother. To check out this complete surround sound system at a great price, just tap the button below. Keep reading to see about its parts.
Why you should buy the Samsung B-Series Surround Sound Set We consistently find Samsung soundbars to be amongst the best soundbars due to their simplicity of setup, high quality, and affordable pricing. Great features carry over to this set, such as night mode which dampens the volume and keeps rumbly bass to a minimum. Similarly, gaming mode works to perfect directional audio in game, so you know exactly where those pesky enemy footsteps are coming from. Lastly, the voice enhancer pulls and accentuates sounds within the voice spectrum to make dialogue super audible during movies or cutscenes.
Audio / Video Black Friday deals are starting early this year which means Walmart has some awesome TV deals going on already. If you're looking for a cheap TV right now, there are some great options on sale. We've picked out four of the best below so you know exactly what to buy.
Philips 32-inch HD TV -- $118, was $133 Not everyone needs a 4K TV which is where the Philips 32-inch HD TV is a bargain. It's ideal for your child's bedroom, your kitchen, or anywhere else you can think of. It has a borderless design that makes it look more attractive than most. It also offers 120 PMR so you get a sharp motion blur-free image as you watch. It also has Roku Smart TV built-in so you can easily find all your favorite shows via many different streaming apps. Via the Roku mobile app, you can also use voice assistant support to speak your commands saving you the need to use the remote so often.
Audio / Video We're in a golden age of television in more ways than one. Prestige TV shows are getting as good, and as expensive to make, as big budget blockbusters. TV technology is also exploding, with new tech like QLED, OLED and QNED upping the game. One very unique TV option from Samsung is The Frame, a TV that's designed to look like a piece of art when you're not using it.
If you've had your eye on the unique The Frame TV from Samsung, now is a great time to buy it. The massive, 85-inch model is currently on sale for $2,749 at Walmart, a nice $750 discount off its usual price of $3,499. It's worth noting that this model of The Frame, the 85-inch LS03B, is normally $4,300 when you buy it straight from Samsung, so this is a discount stacked on top of a discount. The TV deals just keep stacking up. Grab it soon -- it could jump all the way back to its original price at any minute.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
