Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Phones Best Tablets Tesla Phone Download Android 14 Best Android Phones Home Mobile News Samsung Galaxy S24: news, rumored price, release date, and more By Bryan M. Wolfe Close Samsung Galaxy S24 Ultra render OnLeaks / SmartPrix It’s been a busy year for Samsung. At the beginning of 2023, the company launched its Galaxy S23 series. And this past summer, we got the Galaxy Z Fold 5 and Galaxy Z Flip 5 — two of the year’s best folding phones.
 However, it is never too early to anticipate the company’s next lineup of smartphones. If Samsung sticks to its previous calendar schedule, we can expect to see the Galaxy S24, S24 Plus, and S24 Ultra announced early in 2024.
Samsung Galaxy S24: release date Samsung Galaxy S24: price Samsung Galaxy S24: design Samsung Galaxy S24: specs Samsung Galaxy S24: cameras Samsung Galaxy S24: battery Samsung Galaxy S24: software and updates What can we expect from these phones regarding their specs, design, price, and more? Let’s look at everything we know (so far) about the Samsung Galaxy S24.
Samsung Galaxy S24: release date David Ramos / Getty Images There’s no official date for when Samsung plans to announce its newest Galaxy smartphones. Recent history, however, suggests the new Galaxy S24 handsets will be announced in January or February 2024.
Google Pixel 8a: news, rumored price, release date, and more Samsung just announced another new phone (and two Android tablets) I was totally wrong about 2023’s best folding flip phones In 2023, Samsung announced the Galaxy S23 series on February 1, with a release date of February 17. A year earlier, the Galaxy S22 series was launched on February 9, with a release date of February 25. In 2021, the Galaxy S21 series was announced on January 14, with a release date of January 29.
The new smartphones will undoubtedly be announced at one of Samsung’s signature Galaxy Unpacked events.
Samsung Galaxy S24: price Christine Romero-Chan / Digital Trends Prices for Samsung’s Galaxy handsets have been mostly stable in recent years, with the entry-level S23 model starting at $800 in the U.S., the S23 Plus model starting at $1,000, and the S23 Ultra model starting at around $1,200.
We haven’t heard anything yet about Galaxy S24 pricing. For now, it’s probably best to assume the prices will be similar to previous models. Of course, Samsung and carriers offer trade-in deals and financing options, which can bring prices down.
Samsung Galaxy S24: design Samsung Galaxy S24 render OnLeaks / SmartPrix A few rumors in recent months have suggested there will be few changes on the design front for the S24 series. In September, Smartprix (in collaboration with @OnLeaks) shared purported renders showing the Galaxy S24 and Galaxy S24 Ultra. We also received Galaxy S24 Plus renders from GizNext in early October.
Samsung Galaxy S24 Plus render OnLeaks / GizNext If the renders are correct, we’ll see flat screens this time, with no curved edges like in previous generations. Because there’s no more curved glass, expect ever-slimmer bezels, with the Galaxy S24 Ultra possibly having the slimmest bezels to date for a Samsung smartphone. Beyond this, the S24 series could look very similar to the S23 series. Again, according to Smartprix, the S24 Ultra is expected to have flat metallic side rails with rounded edges — just like the S23 Ultra.
Samsung Galaxy S24 Ultra render OnLeaks / SmartPrix Like the iPhone 15 Pro series, the Galaxy S24 Ultra could feature a titanium frame for the first time, according to The Elec.
 This would undoubtedly bring the weight of the Galaxy S24 Ultra down considerably, perhaps as much as 10%.
It should be noted, however, that overall, the designs for the Galaxy S24, Galaxy S24 Plus, and Galaxy S24 Ultra should be strikingly similar to the current models (via @Tech_Reve ).
Samsung Galaxy S24: specs Samsung Galaxy S24 render OnLeaks / SmartPrix We’ve seen a few other key specs about next year’s phones get leaked . When talking about specs and rumors, it’s always important to note that there could be some variance from the actual specs, especially this far out from their release. The real specs should come to light, however, as we get closer to the big reveal.
On X, formerly Twitter, Ice Universe noted that the Galaxy S24 Ultra should feature a 6.8-inch WQHD display with a 1440p resolution. Instead of the 1,750 nits peak brightness that’s found on the S23 Ultra, the S24 Ultra could max out at 2,500 nits.
Ice Universe says the S24 Plus could feature a 6.7-inch WQHD display for the first time. The S24 should feature a 6.2-inch FHD display. In August, the same leaker said “Yes,” the Galaxy S24 and Galaxy S24 Plus would feature LTPO screens.
 Notice these are bigger screens than the 6.1-inch S23 and 6.6-inch S23 Plus.
Andrew Martonik / Digital Trends One of the biggest surprises about the S23 series is that Samsung didn’t use its Exynos chipsets in any models. Instead, it used the Snapdragon 8 Gen 2 chip across the board. For the S24 series, Samsung could return to form and partially use Exynos chipsets alongside the Qualcomm Snapdragon 8 Gen 3 chip.
This news came from Qualcomm CEO Cristiano Amon (via The Elec ), who claims the processor used will vary by region for both the S24 and S24 Plus models. The S24 Ultra, however, will use a Qualcomm chip everywhere the model is sold.
Samsung Galaxy S24: cameras Samsung Galaxy S24 Ultra render OnLeaks / SmartPrix On the camera front, all the rumors so far have to do with the S24 Ultra. Like the previous model, this phone should once again feature a 200MP main camera and a 12MP ultrawide camera. However, changes could happen with the Galaxy S24 Ultra’s telephoto lens.
For the past few years, the Ultra has featured two 10MP cameras with a 3x and 10x zoom. The 3x zoom camera, according to Ice Universe , is likely to remain at 10MP. However, the maximum zoom could drop to 5x this time, but with a significantly higher 50MP sensor resolution. While this might sound like a downgrade, it wouldn’t be, thanks to the improved resolution.
Samsung Galaxy S24: battery Joe Maring / Digital Trends Typically, but not always, the larger a smartphone’s battery, the longer its battery life. If this holds into 2024, all three Galaxy S24 models could see improvements.
According to Dutch news outlet Galaxy Club , the Galaxy S24 will have a 4,000 mAh battery, which would match the one used on the Galaxy S21. The Galaxy S22 and S23 have 3,700 mAh and 3,900 mAh batteries, respectively.
Over on the S24 Plus, we could see a 4,900 mAh battery, which compares very nicely to the S23 Plus’ 4,700 mAh cell. Meanwhile, rumors suggest the S24 Ultra would remain the same at 5,000 mAh.
Samsung Galaxy S24: software and updates Joe Maring / Digital Trends Finally, when it comes to software, the entire Galaxy S24 series should launch with Android 14 preinstalled with either Samsung One UI 6 or 6.1. The Android 14 update has only just now started to arrive for the S23 series.
What will be interesting to see is how many years of Android updates Samsung will promise for the S24. For the Galaxy S23, Samsung offers a respectable four years of Android updates. This doesn’t come close, however, to what Google is promising with the Pixel 8 and Pixel 8 Pro — at least seven years of support. Will Samsung match this? It’s hard to say for sure, but we certainly hope so.
Editors' Recommendations OnePlus 12: news, rumored price, release date, and more Fixing your broken Samsung phone is about to get easier The Samsung Galaxy S24 just leaked with a few big surprises 5 ways the Samsung Galaxy Z Flip 5 beats the Motorola Razr Plus There’s a big problem with Samsung’s new Android tablets Samsung Tech News Mobile This summer’s Galaxy Unpacked event was the usual great fun. We got a new Galaxy Z Fold 5 with an improved hinge and more powerful chip, plus the Galaxy Z Flip 5 with a cover screen that’s large enough to see what’s going on. These were joined by the return of a much-loved design in the Galaxy Watch 6 Classic, with some refinements to make it even more classy, plus a standard Galaxy Watch 6 and a full new lineup of Samsung tablets.
However, Samsung’s latest product lineup also confirms the road I’ve feared the South Korean gadget maker has been on for at least a few months now. Samsung is getting more serious and less fun and whimsical in its product designs, especially when it comes to color choices.
Mobile Samsung just held its latest Galaxy Unpacked event in Seoul, South Korea, and it had a whole slew of new products to unveil to the masses. We have three new Galaxy Tab S9 tablets, the Galaxy Watch 6 series, the Galaxy Z Fold 5, and the Galaxy Z Flip 5.
The Galaxy Z Flip 5 is sure to impress with an all-new 3.4-inch cover display that Samsung has called the "Flex Window." You can access some new widgets from the Flex Window, including a multi-widget view for more at once, and even run apps on the cover display (with some caveats). The Z Flip 5 also has a new Flex Hinge that looks aesthetically pleasing and provides a solid foldable experience. The cameras are also slightly better, with a new lens coating that should cut down on unwanted lens flares.
Mobile Samsung’s midyear Unpacked event has just concluded, and it featured the usual slate of big foldable and wearable announcements. As expected, we saw Samsung unveil the Galaxy Z Flip 5 and Galaxy Z Fold 5, a new Galaxy Tab S9 lineup, and a pair of Galaxy Watch 6 models representing a comeback for the much-loved Galaxy Watch Classic style.
Needless to say, there was a lot to take in today, and some details can easily get glossed over in the midst of all the big tentpole product announcements. While Samsung’s new product lineup is undoubtedly exciting, the upgrades over last year’s models are more iterative — and in some cases even lateral — but Samsung still had a few surprises for us.
The Galaxy Z Flip 5 gets a nice storage boost Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
