Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Phones Best Tablets Tesla Phone Download Android 14 Best Android Phones Home Mobile Deals Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Designed to rival the iPad Pro, Samsung’s best tablet is $150 off By Andrew Morrisey Close Samsung There are a lot of options out there if you’re looking to get yourself one of the best tablets , but if you’re looking to grab some savings as well, you should check out the Samsung Galaxy Tab S8 Ultra. The popular tablet makes a great alternative to the Apple iPad Pro and it’s marked down to $950 at Best Buy right now. This is one of the best tablet deals you’ll find today, as the Galaxy Tab S8 Ultra regularly costs $1,100. This deal makes for a savings of $150, and free shipping is included.
Why you should buy the Samsung Galaxy Tab S8 Ultra When the Samsung Galaxy Tab S8 Ultra was first released we called it not only the king of Samsung’s tablet lineup , but also the king of tablets.
 And while the Samsung Galaxy Tab S9 Ultra is now the newest Galaxy Tab on the market, the S8 Ultra is still a more than worthy option. The screen comes in at 14.6 inches, which is one of the larger displays you’ll find in a tablet. It’s an immersive and responsive display that’s good for watching all of your favorite content, or for creating content of your own.
Because of the Galaxy Tab S9=8 Ultra’s larger frame, it can handle more internal hardware than other tablets. It has a powerful processor that can handle desktop-level apps such as Microsoft 365.
 As it’s built for this deal, the Galaxy Tab S8 Ultra comes with 128GB of storage space, which should be plenty for such apps, as well as for smaller media libraries. But this tablet can be used in a number of ways beyond creating. It has a 4K camera as well as a front-facing camera for video chats and meetings. And no matter how hard you push it throughout the day, it gets amazing battery life and can get charged back to 100% quickly with fast charging technology.
While the Samsung Galaxy Tab S8 Ultra would regularly set you back $1,100, today you can grab it for just $950. This is a savings of $150, and a more affordable price than you’ll find amongst Apple’s iPad Pro lineup. Free shipping and in-store pickup options are included with a purchase.
Editors' Recommendations Best iPad Black Friday deals: iPad Mini, iPad Air, iPad Pro, and more Best Black Friday tablet deals on iPads, Fire Tablets, Samsung, and more Best refurbished Apple Black Friday deals on AirPods, iPads, iPhones, and more The best iPhone 15 case Black Friday deals you can buy now Surface Pro 9 is over $500 off in early Black Friday deal Deals Samsung Mobile You don't need to spend several hundred dollars if you want to get a dependable tablet, especially with tablet deals like this one from Best Buy -- the Lenovo Tab M9 for just $100, following a $40 discount on its original price of $140. As part of the retailer's early Black Friday deals, we expect the offer to draw a lot of attention, but once it's gone, we're not sure if it will return for the actual shopping holiday. If you want to make sure that you get this Android tablet for much cheaper than usual, you shouldn't hesitate to buy it right now.
Why you should by the Lenovo Tab M9 tablet If you manage your expectations with the Lenovo Tab M9, you'll be getting a device that will be able to handle your day-to-day functions. It's not going to be as fast as the high-end models among the best tablets, but with the octa-core MediaTek Helio G80 processor and 3GB of RAM, it will provide decent performance for work and school tasks such as doing online research, managing spreadsheets, and communicating with your colleagues. It's also perfect for recreational activities such as watching streaming shows and playing mobile games, as the tablet features a 9-inch touchscreen with 1340 x 800 resolution.
Mobile Are you planning to buy one of the best tablets, or are you looking for a more affordable option? Either way, you should check out the tablet deals that we've gathered below, as they include devices for anyone from children to professionals. There's no telling how much time is remaining for some of these offers though, so if one of them catches your eye, you know what to do -- proceed with the purchase immediately because it would be a shame if you miss out on the savings.
Amazon Fire 7 Kids -- $55, was $110 The Amazon Fire 7 Kids tablet is a perfect started device for children. It includes the Amazon Fire 7, a sturdy kid-proof case with a built-in stand to protect the device from damage, and a one-year subscription to Amazon Kids+ that offers books, games, videos, and apps curated for children. The tablet also comes with a two-year worry-free guarantee that will get you a free replacement if it breaks.
Mobile In typical style, Amazon has one of the best iPad deals around with $99 off the Apple iPad Mini. Normally priced at $499, you can buy one for $400 so you save 20%. Ideal as a gift for someone this holiday season or if you've been waiting to buy a new tablet for yourself, it's likely to be a popular deal as is always the way with Apple deals, so let's take a quick look at what it offers before you consider tapping the buy button.
Why you should buy the Apple iPad Mini One of the best iPads around, particularly when it comes to portability, there's a lot to like about the Apple iPad Mini. It has a gorgeous looking 8.3-inch Liquid Retina display which has support for True Tone and P3 wide color. It also has ultra low reflectivity so it's perfect for using even in bright light situations.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
