Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Audio / Video Deals Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Best headphone deals: Save on Bose, Sony, Sennheiser, and more By Aaron Mamiit and Paula Beaton Close Buying new headphones or wireless earbuds shouldn’t have to be a scary experience — if you’re overwhelmed by all of the headphone deals that are out there, we’re here to help you out. We’ve gathered the top choices and the biggest bargains right here, so you don’t have to look anywhere else. Once you’ve chosen the audio accessory that you want to purchase, it’s highly recommended that you proceed with the transaction because these discounts aren’t going to last forever.
Today’s best headphone deals What are the best headphones you can buy right now? How much should you spend on a pair of headphones? What features should you consider when buying headphones? When is the best time to shop headphone deals, and should you wait? Today’s best headphone deals Audio-Technica SQ1TW — $28, was $79 Audio-Technica For very cheap wireless earbuds, go for the Audio-Technica SQ1TW. They’re compact and comfortable to wear, but they don’t sacrifice audio quality with their 5.8mm driver. They can last up to 6.5 hours on a single charge and an additional 13 hours with their charging case. The wireless earbuds come with waterproof design equivalent to an IPX4 rating , and they can connect to Android devices using Fast Pair technology for your convenience.
Samsung Galaxy Buds Live — $90, was $150 Jaron Schneider / Digital Trends / Digital Trends The Samsung Galaxy Buds Live are uniquely shaped wireless earbuds that rest outside your ear canal and against the inside of your concha, which is great if you’re not comfortable with most wireless earbuds that sit inside your ear canal. They offer active noise cancellation to block external noise, as well as a battery life of up to 8 hours on a single charge and almost 20 hours in total with the charging case.
Save on everything from laptops and tablets, to coffee makers and air purifiers, and a whole host of Apple tech like iPad, Apple Watch and even the latest M3 MacBooks, as well as smart home essentials like the Amazon Echo and smart bulbs.
Apple AirPods 2 –$99, was $129 Riley Young/Digital Trends / Digital Trends The second-generation Apple AirPods aren’t the latest version of the wireless earbuds, but they’re still a good purchase, especially if you can get them for this cheap. It only takes one tap to set them up with an iOS device, but they’re also compatible with Android smartphones. The Apple AirPods 2 are powered by Apple’s H1 chip, and they can last up to 5 hours on one charge and more than 24 hours if you include their charging case.
JBL Tune 760NC — $100, was $130 JBL The JBL Tune 760NC wireless headphones offer active noise cancellation so that you can focus on your music, which you can enjoy with improved quality thanks to the trademark HBL sound with deep and powerful bass. The wireless headphones’ battery life is rated at 35 hours with ANC on and up to 50 hours with ANC off, and it will only take 2 hours of charging to get the battery to full. The JBL Tune 760NC also comes with Bluetooth multipoint so you can quickly switch its connection from one device to another.
Beats Studio Buds Plus — $100, was $170 Beats Beats promises rich and immersive sound with the Beats Studio Buds Plus , which also offers active noise cancellation and a transparency mode that will let you listen to what’s going on around you without having to take off the wireless earbuds. They can last up to 36 hours with their charging case, are protected by an IPX4 rating against water and sweat, and they offer one-touch pairing for both iOS and Android devices.
Beats Solo 3 — $129, was $200 Beats For stylish but high-performance wireless headphones, you can’t go wrong with the Beats Solo 3.
 They’re powered by Apple’s W1 chip but they work with both iOS and Android devices, and they can run up to 40 hours before needing to recharge them. Their Fast Fuel technology gets you back 3 hours of usage after just 5 minutes of being plugged in, so the wireless headphones will rarely be out of commission.
Sennheiser HD 450BT — $130, was $180 Riley Young / Digital Trends / Digital Trends The Sennheiser HD 450BT wireless headphones offer amazing value with their sleek design and bevy of features, including active noise cancellation, a built-in microphone, and a rechargeable battery that can last up to 30 hours. The over-ear design promises a secure fit, and if you’re on the go, you can keep them quickly as they can fold to fit into a compact carrying case.
Apple AirPods Pro 2 — $199, was $249 Simon Cohen / Digital Trends The second-generation Apple AirPods Pro are the best choice for Apple fans, according to our roundup of the best wireless earbuds , as they offer the same great design and comfortable fit as their predecessor, but with improvements in their active noise cancellation and battery life. With ANC enabled, they can last up to 6 hours on a single charge and a total of 30 hours with their charging case. The Apple AirPods Pro 2 also supports spatial audio and quick access to Apple’s digital assistant Siri.
Beats Powerbeats Pro — $200, was $250 Beats For wireless earbuds that will be able to keep up with you during your workouts, you should check out the Beats Powerbeats Pro.
 Their adjustable earhooks will make sure that they stay in place even when you move a lot, while their reinforced design grants resistance against sweat and water. The Beats Powerbeats Pro provide up to 9 hours of listening time, and a total of more than 24 hours with their charging case.
Sennheiser Momentum 3 — $200, was $280 Simon Cohen / Digital Trends / Digital Trends Featuring the brand’s signature sound with full bass and customizable audio with their built-in equalizer, the Sennheiser Momentum 3 wireless earbuds gives you complete control over your music. They offer adaptive noise cancellation and transparency mode, IPX4 water resistance, and a total battery life of up to 28 hours with their charging case. They also work with Qi wireless charging.
Bowers and Wilkins Px7 S2 — $249, was $399 Simon Cohen / Digital Trends / Digital Trends The Bowers and Wilkins Px7 S2 wireless headphones offer style, sound, and comfort, all in one package. Their gorgeous design stands out among the other wireless headphones in the market, and they provide amazing audio through their optimized acoustic system. They also come with lightweight polymer arms so you won’t mind wearing them all day. The Bowers and Wilkins Px7 S2 also feature active noise cancellation and a 30-hour battery life.
Bose 700 — $299, was $379 Bose The Bose 700 wireless headphones come with amazing active noise cancellation, which isn’t a surprise as the brand spearheaded the development of the technology. You have the choice among 11 levels of ANC, including full transparency, and you’ll also enjoy better calls with a microphone system that works to make your voice clearer. The Bose 700 runs for 20 hours following a full charge, and they come with built-in support for Amazon’s Alexa and Google Assistant.
Sony WH-1000XM5 — $325, was $400 Simon Cohen / Digital Trends The Sony WH-1000XM5 are on top of our list of the best headphones because they’ve got everything that you may be looking for — excellent sound quality, a very comfortable fit, and a classy design, just to name a few. The wireless headphones come with amazing noise cancellation and call quality, and they have an extra long battery life of up to 30 hours, with a quick 3 minutes of charging restoring 3 hours of usage.
Sennheiser Momentum 4 — $350, was $380 Zeke Jones/Digital Trends / Digital Trends The Sennheiser Momentum 4 are premium wireless headphones with the brand’s distinctive, classy designer look. With adaptive noise cancellation, customization through the Sennheiser Smart Control app, and a 42mm transducer system, you’ll be enjoying your favorite playlists even more. The Sennheiser Momentum 4 offer exceptional comfort with their lightweight design, and they can last up to 60 hours on a single charge.
Apple AirPods Max — $480, was $549 Riley Young / Digital Trends The Apple AirPods Max are designed to meet the needs of sound engineers and audiophiles with their dynamic driver and support for spatial audio with dynamic head tracking. The wireless headphones have a knit-mesh canopy and memory foam ear cushions for a comfortable fit, and with active noise cancellation enabled, they can run for 20 hours from a full charge.
What are the best headphones you can buy right now? With so many headphones around, the best headphones vary wildly depending on what you need from them. For instance, the best wireless earbuds are generally a better idea if you want to listen to music while you’re running or working out as they’re less cumbersome than full headphones. Something like Apple AirPods Pro 2 or Bose QuietComfort Earbuds II are good in both cases.
Alternatively, if you want headphones to listen to music at home or watch movies with, full headphones are perfect. For audio enthusiasts, try the Sennheiser Momentum 4. Alternatively, there’s always the Sony WH-1000XM5 which are exceptional in every way.
How much should you spend on a pair of headphones? Knowing how much to spend depends on how much you can afford to spend, as well as how often you plan on using said headphones. If you’re looking for a pair to use on a daily basis such as for commutes or walks, it makes sense to spend as much as possible. It’ll be a worthwhile investment.
However, if you’re just looking to use them occasionally, consider something under $150. Such headphones will still be good quality once you do your research, and even dipping lower than $100 could be a good idea if you simply won’t use them too much.
Outside of the biggest audiophiles, it’s unlikely you’ll benefit from spending more than $300.
What features should you consider when buying headphones? It’s worth reading up on reviews of any headphones you’re considering buying. If you’re passionate about sound quality, that’s particularly important with many marketing terms used that aren’t always accurate in real-world use.
One other term to acclimatize yourself with is ANC.
 Active Noise Cancellation uses microphones to determine what sound around you needs to be blocked out, ensuring you solely hear the music or podcast you’re listening to. Not everyone needs it but if you regularly travel, it’s bordering on an essential for blocking out incidental noise. Even on a walk, it can block out noise stemming from wind or rain.
For most people, it makes sense to look out for good battery life too. No one wants to constantly recharge their devices so aim for as high as you can afford, or at least something with fast charge support.
When is the best time to shop headphone deals, and should you wait? The best time to buy any tech is during the Black Friday and Cyber Monday sales that run directly after Thanksgiving. That remains the case for headphones if you’re able to wait until then. Another time for great headphone deals is Prime Day. The event is technically an Amazon-only affair but during that time in July, other retailers often provide their own sales so you can still save on headphones elsewhere.
Smaller sales also tend to occur around Labor Day and Memorial Day. These are often more modest with there being occasionally better deals around other times of year. It’s always worth keeping up with what’s going on because after all, you can’t always wait for the ‘optimal’ time if you’re in need of new headphones.
Editors' Recommendations Best Black Friday AirPods Deals: Get Apple’s earbuds for $59 The best Sony TV Black Friday deals on 4K TVs, 8K TVs, and OLED TVs The best 75-inch TV Black Friday deals on Samsung, Sony, and more All the best 65-inch TV Black Friday deals you can shop now Don’t miss these 32-inch TV Black Friday deals from just $90 Deals Cheapest Prices Headphones Audio / Video Best Buy is staying true to its name, as the retail giant is churning out some impressive prices as part of its Black Friday deals. This is great news if you’re hoping to land a discount on a new TV this Black Friday shopping season. It’s pretty easy to find price drops on TVs, with even the best TVs seeing frequent discounts, but right now we’re seeing more significant TV deals taking place with Black Friday around the corner.
In Best Buy Black Friday deals you can currently find deals on top TV brands. If you want to look at individual brand's offers, check out Samsung TV Black Friday deals, Sony TV Black Friday deals and LG Black Friday deals. The smallest TV on this list is 43-inches, so if you need something smaller head over to 32-inch Black Friday TV deals. For something larger, browse 55-inch TV Black Friday deals and 70-inch TV Black Friday deals. If you just have a gift card to burn, or you're just loyal to Best Buy, check out some of the great Best Buy Black Friday laptop deals happening now too.
Audio / Video Black Friday deals are historically the best time of year to buy a new TV with many retailers homing in on offering the absolute best prices on highly sought after TVs. With so many TV deals going on, we've focused on the best 55-inch TV Black Friday deals currently available. A great mid-range size for many homes, there are some awesome deals on big name brands including the best TV brands. Read on while we take you through what's out there.
Best 55-inch TV Black Friday deal TCL 55-inch Q5 Q-Class QLED TV -- $300, was $450 TCL makes some of the best QLED TVs and much of that quality is reflected in the TCL 55-inch Q5 Q-Class QLED TV. It has the ever attractive QLED panel paired up with useful features like a high brightness Direct LED backlight to provide an enhanced viewing experience. It also has Motion Rate 240 with MEMC Frame Insertion technology so you get fantastic motion clarity. Even when gaming, there's a fast 120Hz variable refresh rate to ensure no risk of motion blur. For picture quality, there's a HDR Pro+ package of Dolby Vision, HDR10+, HDR10 and HLG support for accurate colors and finer details.
Web With so many Black Friday deals already under way, it can be tough to keep on top of everything. Walmart has dozens of different awesome deals so we've narrowed things down to the best Walmart Black Friday deals currently available. There's a little bit of everything here with discounts on TVs, headphones, laptops, coffee makers, and much more. The retailer is also having a massive Black Friday Lego sale. Whatever you're considering buying, keep reading while we take you through some great options.
Other retailers have started early too, so check out Amazon Black Friday deals and Best Buy Black Friday deals.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
