Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch 4 fresh reasons to buy one of HP’s newest laptops This article is sponsored by HP.
You’re more than just one thing: you’re intuitive and thoughtful, self-reliant but collaborative, ambitious yet centered. HP’s latest laptops—the Spectre x360 and ENVY—understand your different qualities and needs, and most importantly, provide an outlet for all of them.
While you may be initially attracted to the 360-degree hinge, 5-megapixel camera, and soothing interface, they’re just the beginning of the Spectre and ENVY’s varied, engaging features. Activated with Windows 11, an OS designed for hybrid work and learning, HP elevates the PC to a mindset much like your own, one where connection, creativity, productivity, and security combine to present your authentic self.
Connection Communicating with friends, family, collaborators, and coworkers should be the easiest thing with technology, yet that’s not always the case. Windows 11 now has chat and calling on the taskbar to streamline the process to meaningful conversations. Also convenient are the webcam shutter and mic mute button built into the keyboards of the Spectre x360, safeguarding you against moments when you’re not camera-ready or 100% prepared to speak, no matter which software you’re using.
When you’re on video calls, HP’s Lighting Correction ensures you’re always well lit, even in low light. And with AI Noise Removal, HP reduces background noise automatically across Microsoft Teams meetings, calls, and audio outputs/inputs (speakers, headphones, internal mic) so that no dialogue gets lost in the fuzz.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Creativity They say that the future is limited only by our imaginations, but the right laptop can certainly help. The HP Spectre x360 comes with HP Glam Cam, an intelligent infrared camera that provides lighting correction, auto frame, and beauty mode, so you can keep the focus on your ideas and not on what you look like.
With video the go-to medium of expression for many content creators, there’s never been a better time for Windows 11’s newest Video Editor. Your videos will never be the same as you access a rich library of filters, transitions, stock media, and more. Whether you’re editing game clips, putting together a highlight reel of a school project, or assembling a short film, Windows 11’s Video Editor puts everything at your fingertips.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Productivity We’ve all been there: you stare at the screen or into space for minutes while you come up with a great idea or exact wording. Smart Sense, an exclusive technology in the HP Spectre, understands that the struggle is real and saves power until you’re ready to continue. Intuitively, your HP laptop prioritizes programs, adjusts power consumption, lulls fan noise, and more, maximizing your time without sapping battery life. And HP’s Eyesafe ® Certified Displays minimize high-energy blue light from tiring your eyes—another plus in the productivity column.
Distractions are another factor gobbling up our attention and since they’re everywhere nowadays, we’re all looking for help to stay focused. Microsoft’s Focus Assist 2.0 gives you the quick superpower to block unimportant notifications, allowing you to maintain your concentration and dedication. For those contacts you absolutely cannot ignore—like your boss—there’s the ability to create a priority list, with their messages always making it through the force field of focus.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Security Taking your laptop to a coffee shop is one of modern life’s little pleasures. While sipping a carefully crafted cup of joe or tea and maybe nibbling on a sweet treat, inspiration flows freely. In such a setting, thoughts of privacy rarely enter your headspace but how safe are you? With walk away recognition, the Spectre x360 knows when you’ve stepped away and dims the screen, keeping your intellectual property and personal information private. The Spectre can even sense when someone is looking at your screen over your shoulders and blur the display—for them and not you, of course.
Coupled with a personalized fingerprint reader, HP brings James Bond-level vigilance to its laptops. So feel free to take your Spectre x360 out anywhere in public—in a co-working space, on an airplane, to the park—because you’re secure from prying eyes and international spies.
This is a special advertising section.
 The content herein contains the views and opinions expressed by the advertiser.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
