Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch 9 best psychic readings online: Chat with live experts Image used with permission by copyright holder This article is sponsored by Smart Media Inc.
Since the 1st Century fortune-telling has been used as the practice of predicting information about a person’s life. Fortune tellers have known many names throughout history, ranging from ancient terms like Oracles and Soothsayers, to more modern terms such as Psychics.
It’s not surprising that the art of psychic reading itself has seen a steady increase in popularity in the past decade. Now with many new platforms for psychic readings, it can be hard to know which way to go or which medium to choose (no pun intended).
To help you find your divine clairvoyant I compiled nine recommendations about online psychic services: Kasamba Image used with permission by copyright holder First on our list and one of the highest-rated, Kasamba, with over 20 years in service, is one of the more recommended sites. From registration to getting your first reading either phone or in an online chat, Kasamba is straightforward and easy to use. This site gives you the freedom to browse detailed psychic profiles, furthering your ability to really narrow down your perfect prophet. As an added bonus first-time users also get a free reading.
Whatever your questions, you can be sure this site has a psychic for you with those answers you’re seeking. Some familiar and better known readings offered on Kasamba include palm and love readings, tarot, and astrology readings, coupled with some more unique services such as aura and/or new-age spirituality. And more in-depth readings, like past life or paranormal experiences are available as well.
The access to so many choices may feel endless, even a bit overwhelming to those unfamiliar with sites such as this. As with any site, there are bound to be a few kinks that may discourage some, such as the lack of an advanced filtering option, or higher costs for psychics with more experience. That said, Kasamba is full of great offers and discounts to ensure users get their money’s worth.
Keen Number two on our list is Keen, a site which also been around for over two decades. As “fate” would have it, signing up for an account is free but users must add money to their accounts to be able to speak with psychics.
As previously mentioned, sites like Keen can offer many types of psychic readings, but it is important to note that there are also a wide range of psychics who specialize in many – and multiple — types of readings. So, finding what you’re looking for to receive the most personalized and accurate reading can be a bit overwhelming. Luckily Keen’s filter by option allows you to narrow things down by price, reading type, and/or customer ratings.
Still a bit new to the world of readings? One of the more unique features of this site is the Articles section, where you’ll be able to enlighten yourself on the specifics of the many branches of the practice, like spirit, tarot, and astrology. Aside from just a few minimal drawbacks like no video chat option, this site is a strong competitor among the others of its kind.
Oranum Image used with permission by copyright holder While it comes in at third, Oranum is probably my favorite of the bunch. It stands out from most sites with its live webcam platform and exclusive video chats for readings. Not comfortable with sharing yourself with your advisor? There’s an “anonymous” option. Another feature worth mentioning is the free psychic chat, which is a great way for newbies to get a glimpse into their future with Oranum.
Other features that set this site apart? With so many search options coupled with detailed profiles to help modify your results appropriately, Oranum makes it simple to find what you’re looking for. You’ll appreciate that since the site is filled with many categories and subcategories — from the classics to unique ones for spiritual healing, like chakra healing.
 Oranum’s free downloadable app might be just what entices you to check out this top-tier site.
AskNow Image used with permission by copyright holder When looking for your most appropriate advisor, it’s important to make sure you understand the distinctions among the different types of psychics. Not all fortune telling is told by those who see into the future like clairvoyants. Mediums who deal with energies and psychics who use charts, runes, tarot cards, and numerology are just a few other classifications in the art. Given those choices, it’s good to know that AskNow has you covered like a blanket! This site’s difference is an extensive search option to help you single out what suits you, in an efficient manner. After signing up with the required payment details, you’ll have access to not only this search feature but a 5-minute session to ask a free question as well! And speaking of payment options, you and your bank account will be happy to know that this site is labeled as one of the most affordable psychic reading sites.
If I haven’t won you over yet, one of the absolute best things about this site is that all of their psychics come with credentials. Not only that, but their abilities must be tested before being posted. Even further, they have to maintain a 4-star rating to stay on the site. What a way to ensure the best for their users — now that’s marketing! Mysticsense Another crowd favorite, it seems, is Mysticsense. But that comes as no real shocker when one looks at the very nature of the site which is warm and inviting with a familiar structure not unlike social media platforms.
One of the top marks for this site is also its helpful community base that embodies the very backbone of the environment. A comprehensive blog is yet another feature that really adds another layer of unity that not all other sites provide. I take comfort in things that are familiar, so I feel at ease with Mysticsense because I sense that if I’m in need of direction I have a community to fall back on to help me find answers.
As always, saving the best for last here, the feature that helps this site stand out from the rest is that Mysticsense is rated one of the most accurate sites for nearly any reading available. Their advisors are accessible with multiple forms of contact 24/7, and various filters enhance your chances of finding the right fit for the correct criteria. The drawback? No downloadable app. But this site’s highlights really make it something you don’t want to miss out on.
Psychic Source Image used with permission by copyright holder The Psychic Source comes highly recommended, described as “the most experienced company within the industry,” As it is with most sites like this, you get a free reading at the start of your account, with anything past the first 3 minutes only an additional one dollar per minute.
A substantial number of reviews for the site bring to light to many positive attributes Psychic Source offers. Honestly, the good reviews come as no surprise as the site is known to have outstanding customer service. We all know the many hassles of the internet and how fast it can turn from an aid to a hindrance. We rely on the ability to reach someone who can help us in those dire times; Psychic Source wanted to help their customers breathe a sigh of relief knowing there is always a source of assistance available day or night.
Even better, this site comes with a seal of approval for their reputation for continuous placement in the importance of keeping their client’s information confidential. If safety and security are what you’re looking for, seek Psychic Source.
California Psychics Image used with permission by copyright holder Once you’re putting in the commitment to find your desired site, you’ll see just how rare it is to come across one with a search bar. Imagine trying to remember the name of a psychic that gave you a stellar reading but being unable to without such a vital feature. California Psychics comes through with that feature, and much more.
Of course, as with most of these sites, you’ll find many options as far as types of readings, but something that makes California Psychics unique is its specification on psychic styles; namely, inspirational, compassionate, and straightforward. Other showstopping features consist of weekly blogs sorted into various categories, daily horoscopes, and a calendar to set a schedule to talk with a psychic. Rates for this site are on the higher end, and the amount of psychics available lacks foresight. But in referencing its reviews there are detailed remarks about good customer experiences in addition to admiration for the psychics that are on hand. I’d say it’s wise to add this site to the list! Psychic Oz Image used with permission by copyright holder Psychic Oz prides itself on its undeniable transparency with its customers. The site is easy to navigate, even for first-time users. Readings are provided through digital mediums and are available via emails, online chats, and/or phone calls. Psychics here set their own rates, which results in a seemingly double-edged sword feature.
It is also worth mentioning this site is yet another of ones more strict with its advisors, putting each through a rigorous hiring process before they’re even considered for the platform.
While the site guarantees there are no hidden fees, customers have complained that this method makes the “expert” advisors too expensive. Even with a popular opinion like that, Psychic Oz deserves credit for offering multiple options for discounts and deals.
LifeReader Image used with permission by copyright holder One of the biggest benefits when it comes to the psychic reading platform known as LifeReader is that even after the initial offer, it’s one of the most affordable options on the web. An excellent freemium website, you can have the first four minutes for free, plus four different free horoscopes.
Yet another site without an app, and one of the few to not have a video chat option, LifeReader comes with gives and takes.
While not having video chat can be a downside for some, this can serve as a benefit to others who might be more camera-shy. Besides, platforms that do offer video chat generally try to upsell their customers on that choice, so those who want to remain absolutely anonymous don’t have to feel obligated with this particular psychic reading website.
On top of all its features, LifeReader psychics are empathetic, understanding, and seemingly caring when they listen to your concerns. You don’t have to be able to see into the future to see LifeReader is a good choice! Are These Psychic Platforms Legit? I think it’s safe to assume if you’re reading this you could be considered someone who believes in this almost biblical craft. However, as with most things on the internet, it’s considered unwise to believe everything you read without at least a bit of research, which I hope to have provided here today.
More than half of these sites go above and beyond to ensure their users get a personalized experience every time. Each has its own ability to search the entire site for an advisor of your own, topped with real customer reviews to help ease further doubt you may have. And, when it comes to the readings themselves, as a fellow believer, I gotta say, you just need to manifest your own destiny by seeking the consults yourselves. Trust me when I say, you’re sure to get your money’s worth.
How To Determine The Best Psychic Reading For You I’ve definitely unloaded a lot of information here, but you may still have some questions. So, this is where we turn things up a notch by diving deep into this mystical art, so that we can find the perfect reading for you.
To do that, the most important question to ask is ‘what type of answers are you looking for’? You may need to narrow down what information you’re seeking. There are so many branches in the fortune-telling world that it’s important to take some time to review a few of the basic options to offer you some clarity.
Love and Relationship Readings Our first example is pretty self-explanatory: got a burning question about a crush, admirer, or potential lifelong partner? Though our first category may seem all-encompassing, this particular section can be associated with many more subcategories, including horoscope interpretations and karmic love readings. If your desired answer is anything pertaining to this category, you can be almost guaranteed to find your very own proper prognosticator.
Tarot Cards This category has to be one of the staples for psychic readings in today’s modern age. There are so many subcategories to choose from in this section alone that I could literally write another article about it. For now, let’s cover the need-to-know. Online tarot readings can be a bit different than typical face-to-face encounters but can still be just as effective and accurate. Tarot is good for those looking to answer personal prophecies pertaining to not only one’s future but their past and present as well.
Dream Interpretation Dream interpretation is likely the most sought-after reading of all. We’ve questioned the possible hidden meanings behind dreams since the dawn of time. In all probability, this specific branch closes the gap the most between science and the mysticism of prognosticating. And believe it or not, there are many psychics who have practiced for years, available because of sites like these to help you perceive your dreams clearly.
Astrology The study of the movements and relative positions of the stars and planets? Now there’s a topic that has been around, quite literally, since BCE, is implemented in public schooling, and has been absolutely vital to unlocking many scientific developments. But spiritual advisors use these readings to open the door to answers of a different kind. Terms such as Zodiac signs are a familiar reference point for most, but that’s just scraping the surface of what astrology truly encompasses.
Palm Reading Last but not least, another benchmark of the divine culture is palm reading. You’re probably asking yourself, how can one have their palms read over the internet? Well, remember when I noted that most of these sites have video chatting as an option? Online psychics are more than capable of deleting the barrier between screens and give you an apt and personalized analysis via webcam.
Ideas for what to ask during a free psychic reading Now that you’re more well versed on the types of readings to look into when seeking answers from the beyond, let’s go even further and review some discussion topics for your journey into the vast unknown. But we’ll focus on broad questions for now. Consider questions that are relatable to multiple scenarios and generalized circumstances, such as: Is there anything I need to know about my immediate future? Asking questions like these helps a clairvoyant home in on life events that are important to you directly.
What energies are surrounding me currently? Asking this question is good for Mediums specifically; energies are important to be aware of since they affect your day-to-day life.
Should I make or expect any changes in my love life? Questions regarding love are arguably the most common; if there’s something you need to know about it here’s probably one of the best ways to ask.
What do I need to know about the ones I hold dear? We all have at least one person that we love and care for, so it goes without saying finding out what’s important to know that concerns them is a definite must.
Just like in your everyday life, questions are endless, and when asking your advisor remember these key points: Be precise with your words, choose them carefully, and cover one issue at a time.
Finding a Psychic for Free Readings Overall, when it comes to psychic readings there are many free outlets. Sure, nothing quite beats the authenticity of face-to-face interactions, but I hope this guide helps you gain the knowledge necessary for moving forward into your future. What are you waiting for? Your destiny awaits.
This is a special advertising section.
 The content herein contains the views and opinions expressed by the advertiser.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
