Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch A new kind of device for a new kind of workplace: Meet the Samsung Galaxy Book Pro 360 Image used with permission by copyright holder This article is sponsored by Samsung.
It’s 2021 and it is time to rethink the office. With millions of Americans searching for a better work-life balance and more workplaces than ever offering remote work options, finding the right device that lets you work on the move has never been more important.
There are a few things a device that is perfect for the traditional office as well as home office must be. While many of us will be able to choose to work from home more often, there will still be meetings and collaborations that have to be dealt with in person, so a remote work device must be portable and suited to all sorts of settings. It should also be versatile: at home, you won’t have access to your office desktop, so a device powerful enough host all the programs you could need on any given day is essential. Tied to this quality is performance, as you won’t have tech support on hand and access to the Cloud isn’t always a given if you are on the move. Lastly, it should be kind on the eyes: working from home means all your meetings will involve screen time, giving your retinas fewer breaks throughout the day.
Taking all of this into consideration, what would the perfect device for working from home and the office look like? Probably something like the Galaxy Book Pro 360, which is built for the desk, the tray table, the kitchen table, the café bar, the sofa- wherever you decide to make your office for the day.
For starters, the GBP 360 is a sleek device that combines the best of a laptop with the best of a tablet. Unlike a normal laptop, the screen can fold flat on the back of the keyboard (hey, that’s 360 degrees!). Combine this feature with its ultrathin and, at 1.92 pounds, extremely light design, and you get a device that can fit into anything and be used anywhere. And with a 5G version coming this fall, you will also be able to connect virtually everywhere, from the back of a taxi to a lounge chair on the beach.
While the physical design means you can do a lot more on the go, the versatility of what you can do with the GBP 360 is where the device breaks free from the limits of a traditional laptop. Loaded with a larger and more comfortable S Pen, the GBP 360 lets you write and draw on PDFs, keeping your creative process and quick thoughts organized and in one place, rather than spread across multiple devices and pieces of paper.
When it comes to performance, there are a few reasons to be excited about the GBP 360. First, despite being one of the thinnest and lightest devices of its type on the market, it has 21 hours of battery life, so you won’t have to worry about forgetting your charger when you decide to move your home office from the living room to your favorite café for the afternoon. Second, it has a powerful 11 th Gen Intel Core processor and 1 TB of storage. This power means won’t have to stop streaming your favorite show while uploading and sharing files with your coworkers (because why give up one of the best perks of working from home?).
Lastly: eye strain protection. Working from home means a lot of freedom and comfort, but it also means a lot more screentime. With all of your meetings now requiring you to stare at a screen without a break for extended periods of time, you cannot overlook the benefit of a Super AMOLED that provides unparalleled vibrancy while reducing harmful blue light.
Working from home is about to become the new normal for a lot of people who are going to need a device that will make it possible to transition seamlessly from office desk to home office. While it might take time for America’s high-demand office culture to adapt to this new normal, the Samsung Galaxy Book Pro 360 demonstrates that at least our devices are adapting to the moment with style.
LEARN MORE Image used with permission by copyright holder This is a special advertising section.
 The content herein contains the views and opinions expressed by the advertiser.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
