Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch CBD oil for pain management: Best companies 2021 Image used with permission by copyright holder This article is sponsored by Smart Media Inc.
CBD oil has become increasingly popular over the past couple of years as a promising remedy for multiple health issues, including pain management. Many using medical marijuana have reported relief from chronic pain without the intoxicating effects.
Cannabidiol (CBD) oils contain low tetrahydrocannabinol elements derived from Cannabis sativa.
It is one of the many cannabinoids present in the cannabis plant. Since its discovery, there has been a growing amount of preclinical and clinical evidence to support the use of CBD oils for various conditions, particularly for people experiencing chronic pain. It’s a solid alternative for addictive opioids, which are often used for pain relief.
Many CBD-based products have quickly come to market, including oils, tinctures, balms, and candy, but it’s important to remain cautious when using CBD products because there is still little regulation within the industry at large. Studies have found unsettling evidence of inaccurate labeling of tetrahydrocannabinol oils.
This article provides an overview of cannabinoids, CBD, and hemp oil designed to relieve chronic pain, outlines their benefits and some of the higher-quality, over-the-counter products recommended by clinicians.
Endogenous Cannabinoids Versus Exogenous Cannabinoids Our bodies produce cannabinoid receptors, which contain naturally occurring cannabinoids that make up the endocannabinoid system, or ECS. The endocannabinoid system has highly complex cell signaling pathways within the central nervous system and immune system. When using CBD oils and other cannabinoid-based products they attempt to link to these receptors throughout the body.
There are two types of cannabinoids – endogenous cannabinoids and exogenous cannabinoids.
The body produces naturally occurring lipids, otherwise known as endogenous cannabinoids.
Exogenous cannabinoids, however, are not produced by the body. These are compounds found solely within cannabis plants and comes in a few varying forms, including: CBD Cannabichromene (CBC) Cannabigerol (CBG Tetrahydrocannabinol (THC) Is CBD Effective For Pain Management? Both endogenous and exogenous cannabinoids will bind to the receptors on your cells. Once this binding process begins, your cells will start to respond, stimulating a response that influences pain signaling pathways.
It’s important to note that CBD does not do as good a job of binding to your receptors as your natural lipids will. But, it will interact with neurological receptors found in the spinal cord. This will help to suppress chronic inflammatory pain.
This benefit has been tested and proven in this cannabinoid study , for example, which showed that CBD suppresses chronic inflammatory pain in mice. This occurred as protein levels within spinal glycine receptors significantly increased, which, in turn, helped with inflammatory-based pain.
CBD may also improve the effects of endogenous cannabinoids, which in turn helps to reduce pain.
This 2018 study showed that kidney transplant patients with chronic pain experienced much relief when taking CBD. Interestingly, the study showed that participants who were given a higher dose of CBD felt more pain, and lower CBD doses resulted in the most effective pain control.
Using CBD For Pain Management CBD products come in many forms, including: Oils and tinctures Capsules and oils Topical patches Creams and balms Candy CBD oils and tinctures are the most versatile products by far. They come in a dropper and can be added to a variety of different things, like lotion, food, drinks, etc.
What’s the Difference Between CBD and Hemp Extract? You may hear CBD and hemp extract used interchangeably, but they are two different things. Though part of the same source, hemp extract stems from the hemp plant, but in a concentrated form. While in this form it maintains all the benefits within the plant itself. CBD is a single component of the hemp plant, known as the phytocannabinoid. Hemp is naturally high in phytocannabinoids. Because of this, many CBD products will utilize hemp extract in their formulas.
Best CBD Oils For Pain Management Charlotte’s Web 60 mg CBD Oil Smile Unwind CBD Oil Bloom Essential Recovery Tincture CBD American Shaman Water Soluble CBDFX CBD + CBG Oil Wellness Tincture Receptra Naturals Serious Relief Sunday Scaries CBD Oil Tincture Medterra CBD Oil Charlotte’s Web 60 mg CBD Oil Price: $119.99 Image used with permission by copyright holder This is a full-spectrum CBD oil that comes from a well-trusted brand within the CBD community. Charlotte’s Web CBD products use US-based hemp plants that are grown in Colorado. This 60 mg oil is the highest concentration CBD per mL offered by the company. It also comes in 50 mg and 17 mg CBD formulas.
The higher dose is ideal for those who are already accustomed to CBD and looking to improve their supplement routine. The ingredients include full-spectrum hemp extract, along with naturally occurring phytocannabinoids, terpenes, and flavonoids. The benefits behind this ingredient list are designed to maintain calmness, reduce exercise-induced inflammation, and balance sleep patterns.
Each ingredient is carefully selected, with little fluff within the formulation. Essentially, there’s hemp extract, carrier oil, and a little bit of flavor. That’s it.
To stabilize such a high concentration of CBD, Charlotte’s Web uses a CO2 extraction method. This extraction agent, otherwise known as carbon dioxide, leaves no negative footprint on the environment.
Smile Unwind CBD Oil Price: $42.50 Image used with permission by copyright holder This product is formulated to promote calmness, reduce stress, support better sleep, and help relieve physical pain. It’s made with 100% organic CBD isolate, 5-HTP, hemp seed oil, MCT coconut oil, melatonin, ginseng, omega-3, omega-6, and omega-9.
Pure CBD will provide a calming effect, while ginseng is great for mental clarity. 5-HTP is a chemical by-product of the protein building block L-tryptophan, found in the Griffonia simplicifolia plant. It has been shown to increase the production of serotonin in the brain, ultimately helping with depression and anxiety.
The benefits of this product go beyond specifically pain management, but also helps to relieve stress and improve mood. Still, the cannabinoids found within this CBD oil have anti-inflammatory properties to help support recovery and alleviate joint pain due to swelling. It has antispasmodic properties, which can reduce the frequency and extent of muscle spasms. Overall, it’s a great CBD oil for pain.
Bloom Essential Recovery Tincture Price: $79.99 Image used with permission by copyright holder This recovery tincture contains turmeric, ginger, black seed, and hemp extract. Each individually is a powerful anti-inflammatory ingredient on its own. When combined, however, they create a super elixir that helps fight pain.
The theory behind blending turmeric, ginger, and black seed (black cumin seed) has been used for centuries, specifically in Ayurvedic medicine (an alternative medicine, holistic healing system practiced in India). The roots are smashed together, extracting the essential oils from the plants, to create a tea for people in need of relief.
This CBD oil abides by a similar approach, but with added Bioperine, which is a pepper extract that speeds up the effects of these ingredients to give faster relief.
Many hemp-derived CBD products are received with much skepticism. The benefits of CBD can only occur when the ingredient percentage is significant. Unfortunately, many CBD products are filled with unneeded fluff, making pain alleviation a rarity. Bloom, however, is backed by science. All the products are tested by a third-party lab to ensure the percentages are accurate before going to market.
CBD American Shaman Water Soluble, Full Spectrum Hemp Oil Price: $14.99 Image used with permission by copyright holder This is one of the more affordable options on the market. It may raise eyebrows on its effectiveness when sold at such a low price, but it does contain 10 mg CBD per 1 mL. The lower concentration of CBD extract explains the lower price point on this product.
This CBD oil is also rich in terpene. Cannabis terpene is not the same thing as cannabinoids, like CBD and THC. It is, however, extracted from the same glands that produce cannabinoids. Terpenes are aromatic oils that give cannabinoids distinct flavors, like mint, berry, and citrus.
The company creates CBD products from high-quality hemp plants grown throughout the U.S. They are planted on agriculturally-responsible farms that only use industry-standard extracting methods.
CBDFX CBD + CBG Oil Wellness Tincture Price: $39.99 Image used with permission by copyright holder This is a CBD oil tincture that’s 100% vegan, non-GMO, and extracted with CO2. It contains hemp oil, coconut oil (or MCT oil), Curcumin, Coenzyme Q10, CBG, CBN, and terpene blends.
The coconut oil is used as a carrier oil, helping to improve absorption of the CBD and deliver a consistent experience with every use. Curcumin and Coenzyme Q10 are known to have powerful antioxidant properties, increasing the effectiveness of the tincture. CBN is a type of cannabinoid that can aid with relaxation.
CBG, or cannabigerol, is another compound found in the cannabis plant that interacts with CB1 and CB2 receptors in the brain, providing further balance within the endocannabinoid system.
Receptra Naturals Serious Relief + Turmeric 0% THC Tincture Price: $84.99 Image used with permission by copyright holder This CBD oil is derived from hand-picked hemp flowers, using a cold ethanol extraction method. This method is also commonly used to derive vanilla.
This is a broad-spectrum tincture, formulated with a combination of pure and organic ingredients, proven to help with recovery and pain relief. It contains MCT oil, omega-3 and omega-6 fatty acids, turmeric, and avocado oil. These ingredients work together to provide a positive metabolic impact, faster recovery, and relief from aches and joint irritation.
Sunday Scaries CBD Oil Tincture Price: $55 Image used with permission by copyright holder This CBD oil is formulated with a high concentration of CBD, helping to boost calmness and reap the overall benefits this tincture has to offer. Every bottle holds a massive 500 mg of CBD, suspended with coconut oil. If you’re new to CBD, you may want to consider using something a bit milder when first starting.
It’s made with a proprietary blend of broad-spectrum CBD, vitamin B12, and vitamin D3. This combination of ingredients is designed to calm your mind and elevate your mood.
When dropped under your tongue, the oil will quickly absorb into your system. You can also choose to add it to a beverage, like water, tea, coffee, etc.
Medterra CBD Oil Price: $34.99 Image used with permission by copyright holder The Medterra CBD oil is derived from organically grown, industrial hemp. Every hemp plant is then tested by a third-party to guarantee the product is free of contaminants or other harsh additives. Then, the CBD is drawn out through a CO2 extraction process. This will allow any unnatural substances to be filtered out, ensuring a fully pure and organic CBD oil. This process is critical for yielding the highest quality oils within the hemp plant.
This CBD oil, specifically, is composed of 99% CBD and medium-chain triglyceride MCT oil, which is derived from coconuts. There are varying strengths available – 500 mg, 1,000 mg, and 3,000 mg. Each dosage is safe to use; it mostly depends on your preferences.
CBD Oil Alternatives People who are experiencing continual and persistent pain, despite the use of CBD oil, may want to explore more alternatives with their physicians. Here are some options: Physical therapy for stiff joints Anti-inflammatory pain relievers Massage Acupuncture Cortisone injection Warm compress Conclusion While there is still much research and various clinical studies to be done within the Cannabidiol space, there is no denying the benefits of using CBD oil for pain. CBD products are generally safe to use, but there needs to be better regulation and scientific evidence for some of the over-the-counter products. If suffering from muscle, joint, or nerve pain, however, it can’t hurt to give high-quality CBD oil a chance.
This is a special advertising section.
 The content herein contains the views and opinions expressed by the advertiser.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
