Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch From Smart to Genius: How Kidde has the Smartest Smoke + CO Alarm Available This article is sponsored by Kidde.
There are smart homes and then there are Genius Homes. What makes a home “genius” depends on multiple premium features on-site, like a voice-enabled central hub and cutting-edge appliances, as found in the modern homes of L.A.’s Venice Canals district. But what takes a home to the next level is more than just connectivity and luxury—it’s safety.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Kidde’s new Smoke + Carbon Monoxide Alarms with smart features detects two potential threats to your home: smoke and the odorless, colorless, tasteless gas known as CO. And the kitchen isn’t the only space to benefit from this detection. To learn more, take a tour with us as we highlight different spaces and identify the multiple ways Kidde combination alarms—available at Home Depot—help bring safety and security to each.
Kitchen Image used with permission by copyright holder With a stove top and oven, the kitchen is the ideal starting place for a Kidde Smoke + CO alarm. Sometimes, though, when you’re cooking an elaborate dinner, the alarm activates when it senses smoke. That’s why Kidde created a Smart Hush button that silences the alarm for 8 to 10 minutes, giving you the headspace to continue to create your finest meal yet in relative quiet, the sizzle of a pan notwithstanding.
Living Room Image used with permission by copyright holder There are many names for it: living room, common room, den, family room, etc. No matter what you call it, the main area of your home invites relaxation, with essential elements including a couch, chairs, soothing lighting, and a TV. Another crucial feature is a Kidde Smoke + CO alarm, especially as it’s compatible with a Google Assistant or Amazon Alexa device found in the living rooms of most smart homes. With just a few words, you can easily check the alarm’s status and connection through one of these hubs, all while lounging in comfort.
Bedroom Image used with permission by copyright holder We all lead interconnected lives nowadays and expect our homes to work in the same way. With that in mind, Kidde built whole-home connection between its interconnected hardwired alarms so that they communicate with each other. This is an important feature for your bedroom since, with a Kidde Smoke + CO hardwired alarm installed there and grouped with the rest of the home, you can sleep soundly in the knowledge that if an alarm sounds in another part of your home, you should hear it. The bedroom is also where you spend a lot of time, so knowing that Kidde’s alarm comes with a 10-year limited warranty and a “Replace Alarm” voice alert adds additional peace of mind.
Away from home Image used with permission by copyright holder Leaving your home for an extended period of time, or even a short one, can be fraught with anxiety.
Did I turn off the stove? I can’t believe I forgot to check the basement boiler before heading out.
That’s why Kidde Smoke + CO alarms feature Wi-Fi connectivity and integration with the Kidde app. From anywhere, you can check your alarm remotely and receive mobile notifications. You can also notify any family or friends staying in your home of potential danger, allowing everyone to get smarter about safety.
This is a special advertising section.
 The content herein contains the views and opinions expressed by the advertiser.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
