Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch How Hope for Haiti is using inventive digital philanthropy to rebuild Haiti Image used with permission by copyright holder This content was produced in partnership with Hope for Haiti.
While on a mission to improve the quality of life for the Haitian people, particularly women and children, Hope for Haiti has been around since 1989. It is one of the most trusted nonprofit organizations working in the region and has achieved some truly wondrous goals — like the launch of a $12 million Short and Long-term Response Plan , to be implemented over two years. That initiative was kicked into gear in the aftermath of the massive 7.2 magnitude earthquake that devastated Haiti in 2021 and has continued to help foster recovery, even during the COVID-19 pandemic. But some of its most influential efforts are, believe it or not, being done with the use of innovative digital philanthropy.
Through an NFT campaign called Hope Endures and another digital project utilizing virtual reality, Hope for Haiti is raising awareness about its ambitious relief work and raising funds to help with its many efforts. Hope Endures merges the idea of Haiti’s past and future through beautiful artwork and imagery, created by six prominent Haitian artists across an exclusive collection of 900 unique pieces — all collectible NFTs. Any proceeds from the sale of this art will directly support the construction and rebuilding of two schools in southern Haiti, originally destroyed in the earthquake. Of course, that is just one of many projects this incredible team is spearheading to help local Haitians recover and thrive. If you’re interested, feel free to check out that NFT collection below, or keep reading for more details on Hope for Haiti’s formative work. There are some really intriguing projects in their portfolio! See the Collection Digital innovation making a difference NFTs and digital technologies get a lot of flack at times, but it’s certainly interesting to see how they can be used for the greater good — in this case to help improve the quality of life for the Haitian people. While the Hope Endures NFT collection — available on Snowcrash — is undoubtedly an intriguing effort, it’s not the only thing Hope for Haiti has in the works. In fact, one of the most compelling projects utilizes VR to deliver an immersive, meaningful, and more compassionate experience allowing everyone to visit Haiti.
Called Inspiring Hope , the experience allows interested parties, including you, to explore and see Haiti in new and enchanting ways. With it, you can step into and explore a local three-room school, complete with interactive elements, explore nearby environments, and browse an NFT collection from within the app. The idea is not just to provide a digital sandbox for everyone to play around in but to give a more lived-in and practical example of how the team is on the frontlines providing critical aid for the local populace. What are they doing, exactly? How are they creating pathways out of poverty through education? You’ll find out all of this and more through the VR experience, and the app is available for free, as a public download, through Sidequest — so go check it out if you haven’t already! Building empathy to achieve support Image used with permission by copyright holder By the numbers, Hope for Haiti’s impact is impressive, reaching over 6,700 students across 24 partner schools, 492 primary and secondary school teachers, and over 110,000 medical consultations across a variety of mediums — from pediatric to general and wound care. But even so, there’s so much more to do.
If we could all visit Haiti and witness firsthand some of the struggles and adversities Haitian families have overcome, we’d have a much better understanding of how Hope for Haiti’s team is making a difference. Hope for Haiti CEO Skyler Badenoch wholeheartedly believes in the importance of “show don’t tell,” especially when it comes to experiences like this, which could potentially breed strong and passionate donors.
Resources are the bottleneck if you will, and without empathy and support, those resources will never come. That’s where the digital solutions come into play. By reaching new people through entirely new and innovative experiences, Hope for Haiti aims to bring in a new generation of support. The Hope Endures NFT collection, for example, will include hundreds of interested donors and supporters, willing to support projects through traditional fiat and cryptocurrencies.
It makes sense, too, why the VR app was nominated for several awards, including the 2022 Auggie Awards, 2022 VR Awards, and 2022 Raise/One Cause Awards, the latter for the Most Innovative Non-Profit project. Hope for Haiti’s official logo espouses its instrumental ideals, to learn, rise, and thrive. With these digital projects that’s exactly what they’re doing. If you’d like to play a role, you can download the VR app and give it a try, or get involved with the NFT collection, and purchase some of the gorgeous artwork that’s available. In the meantime, Hope for Haiti will continue its mission to make a better world for Haiti and its people.
Learn More Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
