Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch A new take on children’s footwear, from the brand parents are talking about This content was produced in partnership with Ozznek.
With infants and newborns, shoes aren’t functional — after all, they’re not walking anywhere and won’t be for a while. Yet still, you tend to spend more than you might expect on little feet. That continues to be true until they’re toddler-age and beyond. You might spend anywhere from $45 up to $150 for a pair of good shoes, and before you know it, your child will have grown out of them. It’s a real problem, but Ozznek intends to make that an issue of the past.
Through Ozznek shoes, you get two pairs, plus a pair of soles, for the cost of a single pair — even lower actually thanks to their impressive prices. They’re convertible shoes, which means they can be worn as indoor slippers — without the soles — or full outdoor shoes after attaching the soles. That gives you way more bang for your buck, of course, but what’s more impressive is the shoes stay relevant for longer, especially with a fast-growing baby on your hands. Starting as low as $20, you can grab a stylish pair of shoes that perfectly match your little one’s personality. It’s a neat idea, with almost no reason to argue otherwise, but there’s a lot more to Ozznek and what they have to offer! Show Me the Shoes What’s the scoop on two pairs of shoes from Ozznek? Image used with permission by copyright holder Most people will hear they’re getting two pairs, as opposed to just one, and assume there’s a catch. That’s not the case here. Ozznek’s founder, Uju Uzuegbunam, understands the prime dilemma with children’s shoes. They’re expensive, and kids grow fast! She wanted to find shoes that her own kids would get more use out of before they were too big to wear them. That’s precisely how Ozznek came to be.
But the unique concept isn’t just about getting two pairs for the price of one. Those shoes are convertible, with easily removable — and attachable — soles. The innovative idea means you can reuse soles by simply swapping them between various shoe tops — what the brand calls the outer shell of the shoe.
Image used with permission by copyright holder All shoe tops are compatible with the soles, which means you can swap them any time, and in just about any configuration. The bottom of the shoes, or soles, detach to allow them to be cleaned or swapped. Without the soles, the shoes can be worn as slippers indoors, adding a bit of stylish flair! When you want to venture outdoors, all you have to do is attach the soles, and your little ones are ready to go! It’s about giving back to the community Thanks to a partnership with the Nigerian Red Cross Society and Children’s Global Affairs to End Hunger in Africa, 10% of every purchase goes to children in need. So, not only are you getting an awesome deal on two pairs of shoes but you’re giving back to a community that can use the support.
It’s all rolled up into what Ozznek provides, so you’re both supporting an amazing cause and getting so much more value out of the shoes your children wear.
Ozznek shoes embody style and grace Image used with permission by copyright holder Of course, when it comes to anything fashionable, including shoes, the true testament is how aesthetically pleasing the designs are. We’re not talking about your average shoes or sneakers here, as every pair is crafted with the utmost care.
From the casual yet beautiful Moana collection to the classy yet understated look of the Juliet Collection, this is footwear that’s absolutely made to impress.
Take a quick peek at some of the available shoes, and you’ll see it’s difficult not to fawn over how cute the results are. Most importantly, it’s nice to have some footwear that your children can grow with, instead of tossing them out every month or so.
Show Me the Shoes Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
