Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Samsung Lifestyle TV: 4 TVs that fit your life AND your style This article is sponsored by Samsung.
TV’s have evolved a LOT over the past few decades. Screen sizes have grown, while overall size, weight, and cost have gone down. TVs are brighter, more colorful, and smarter than ever. And yet, in one way, they haven’t changed much from their 1950s counterparts. Even today, TVs force us to watch content on their terms – in one place, with the lighting just right, and few if any design choices.
That’s where Samsung’s Lifestyle TV products come in. These TVs aren’t a black box dominating the wall of your living room. Instead, they make entertainment available where you want it, when you want it, in ways you never imagined.
The Frame : Image used with permission by copyright holder Living rooms are supposed to be warm, comfortable, and inviting- and good art plays a critical role.
Step in The Frame. It’s a TV when it’s on, and framed artwork when it’s off.
Unlike normal TVs, The Frame lets you choose from an array of bezel designs and colors that look like real painting frames. Then you pick a work of art from over 2,000+ images – some are free, others you can purchase individually, or you can subscribe to the entire collection through Samsung’s Art Store. You can also upload images, making The Frame the ultimate way to display your artwork at home.
In TV Mode, The Frame delivers brilliant HDR picture quality and great sound. In Art Mode, The Frame uses a combination of room brightness sensors and a special matte treatment that makes the screen look like a real canvas. This eye-popping effect will work in any room condition.
Samsung also offers an auto rotating* wall mount and stand, which allows you to utilize the entire screen no matter the orientation of your art— portrait or landscape.
And thanks to built-in sensors , The Frame will automatically adjust the content to match the TV’s orientation. So w hether it’s artwork or Tik Tok, The Frame will frame your content the way it should be.
As an added bonus, you can place The Frame on an easel-style stand from Samsung**, so you can set up your artwork wherever you want.
* Auto rotating accessories for up to 65” models only.
** Sold separately.
The Terrace : Image used with permission by copyright holder Speaking of freedom to go where you want, why not enjoy the outdoors? Whether it’s time for a movie, or a big game, or just time that’s best spent outside, you don’t have to stay indoors to be entertained. Whether it’s by the pool, near an outdoor cooking space, or simply on your deck, The Full Sun Terrace brings indoor entertainment to an outdoor lifestyle.
You can count on seeing this TV clearly, even in the sunshine; plus the Full Sun Terrace is IP55 rated to protect against rain, pool splashes – you can even hose it off if it gets dusty. And it can take the heat, too, so you don’t need to worry about accidentally baking it in the sun.* Pair with The Terrace Soundbar, and you’ve got a powerful outdoor entertainment solution that lifts limits on when and where you get to watch TV.
* Panel protected up to 6 hours in sunlight at 700 watts and 104 degrees Fahrenheit; brightness may decrease to protect panel with other high temperature and sunlight conditions The Premiere : Image used with permission by copyright holder The Samsung Premiere is for folks who dream of having a home theater, but don’t want the extra hassle. Unlike traditional projectors that require wiring and ceiling installation at the back of the room, this ultra-short-throw projector is capable of giving you up to a 130-inch image from inches away from the screen- no miles of HDMI cables needed.
This 4K UHD projector has HDR 10+ support, so you can get bright, high-resolution images with impeccable contrast and color. It’s got Samsung’s Tizen built right in, so everything you need to stream from your favorite apps is already here, just like any other Samsung TVs. All you need is Internet access.
All told, The Premiere breaks down barriers to make getting a theater-like experience at home as simple and non-invasive as possible.
The Freestyle: Image used with permission by copyright holder The Freestyle is an easy-to-use, high-performance , smart portable projector and an all-in-one entertainment solution.
First, The Freestyle has options. All your favorite streaming apps are built in, but there is also a micro -HDMI port and Bluetooth. While The Freestyle plugs into any outlet, Samsung offers a battery base that powers the projector for up to three hours. With a built-in speaker, audio is covered, but you can also connect a speaker- wired or wireless for more immersive sound! You can even decorate The Freestyle with different skins, and there’s a custom case available as well.
Most importantly, The Freestyle will work with just about any flat surface thanks to automated keystone correction, which ensures the picture will have straight lines and right angles. As the Freestyle also has auto focus and auto leveling, all you have to do is place it and aim it. From the side of your house to the inside of a tent, when it comes to using the Freestyle, let your imagination run wild.
A TV that’s as much about art as it is entertainment, a TV that you can bring outdoors, and a theater-scale experience for your home: with these Samsung products, Lifestyle comes off more as a mission statement than a buzzword. The Lifestyle Series are TVs that fit your life AND your style.
This is a special advertising section.
 The content herein contains the views and opinions expressed by the advertiser.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
