Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch The two TVs that will take this sports season to the next level This article is sponsored by Samsung.
It’s getting cooler outside, which means the best sport season of the year is heating up. With colleges and pro football and hockey teams kicking off their seasons, and with the biggest game of the year right around the corner, there is no better time to pickup the latest TV tech than right now.
Imagine seeing your team’s colors as if you were on the field, watching fast-moving plays with pristine clarity, and hearing audio so rich, it feels like you are AT the game.
The right TV can make the difference between simply watching a game, and experiencing it. That’s where Samsung’s newest TV tech comes in.
Samsung builds its best TVs on two different advanced TV display technologies, Samsung Neo QLED and Samsung OLED, and each has its own distinct advantages. Which you may prefer comes down to where you watch, and how you watch.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Samsung Neo QLED 8K TV: Lighting always poses challenges. A living room filled with natural light can wash out the vibrancy of your screen, and if there is a bright light source nearby, your TV screen might reflect it.
The Neo QLED 8K TVs have a solution. It starts with a powerful mini-LED backlight system, which uses tiny mini-LED backlights – thousands of them – to deliver truly impressive levels of brightness. That means your TV’s picture won’t lose its contrast during the day, and that extra punch of brightness also makes for brilliant HDR images with vibrant, saturated colors.
Samsung Neo QLED 8K TVs also provides incredibly precise light control by breaking all those mini-LEDs down into dimmable zones. That means that areas of the screen that should be bright are bright, and areas of the screen that should be dark can be truly dark. That contrast makes the colors of the field and thrill on the fans faces really pop – even in a room filled with daylight.
Sports content is fast moving, and a TV that can resolve that motion with clarity is critical. Thanks to panels with 120Hz refresh rates* and Samsung’s advanced motion processing, Samsung Neo QLED 8K TVs are also capable of mitigating motion blur for crystal clear action. The processor will also up-scale everything you watch to the screen’s 8K resolution. So you’ll get an impeccable level of detail, no matter what you put on.
All of this adds up to a game-changing experience in the living room. But, what if you have a dedicated media room with plenty of light control? Samsung’s OLED TV: Step in Samsung’s OLED TVs, which are capable of true black levels and nearly infinite contrast- perfect for a dark viewing room. That’s because the organic materials in each pixel (the O in OLED) create their own light. So when you turn them off they go all the way black. And OLED does that for every pixel, so you get pixel-level light control creating amazing images.
Samsung’s OLED TVs also use quantum dots with OLED to expand the color to levels no consumer TVs have delivered before. This groundbreaking technology is capable of reproducing your team’s colors faithfully with high color brightness. It’s a dazzling effect that adds depth and realism to everything you watch, drawing you even further into the action. And you can only get it with Samsung OLED TVs.
Building on top of that picture quality is the same great motion processing found in the Samsung Neo QLED 8K lineup. Plus, this is a really attractive TV design, with an extremely thin and low profile that will class up any media room.
So these TVs look amazing, but what about sound? Samsung Neo QLED 8K TVs already have up-firing drivers to deliver Dolby Atmos surround effects, but if you want to take your entertainment to the next level, a Samsung Dolby Atmos soundbar system** will deliver high-impact sound that rivals the picture quality.
This system is armed with a subwoofer, four up-firing Atmos speakers, discreet surround speakers, and a soundbar loaded with drivers- plus Samsung’s Q-Symphony sound allows the TV speakers to work with the soundbar speakers, creating an even grander soundfield. With the soundbar, you will feel the swish of the net, the crack of the bat, and the clash of the tackles all around you.
So whether it’s with the powerful Samsung Neo QLED 8K in your living room or the seductive Samsung OLED in your dedicated media space paired with a Samsung Dolby Atmos soundbar, you will be geared up for an awesome sports-watching experience. Although, to be honest, just about everything you watch is going to be elevated.
* 4k up to 120Hz ** Samsung Dolby Atmos Soundbar System sold separately.
This is a special advertising section.
 The content herein contains the views and opinions expressed by the advertiser.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
