Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch What it looks like when a robot vacuum company innovates around you Image used with permission by copyright holder This article is sponsored by Roborock.
There is nothing more disappointing than a supposedly transformational home product that just… doesn’t quite work. For decades that was true of robot vacuums, which hold so much promise to make life easier, but instead have spent years trundling into coffee tables, getting caught on rugs, and whisking up tortilla chips only to drop them a few inches to the left. But it’s 2022 and consumers are looking for products that bring new, sophisticated technologies to the table so they can spend less time stressing over the vacuums that were supposed to take care of themselves and more time doing things they want to do. In the world of robot vacuums, Roborock is the industry leader innovating around what the customers are asking for.
Roborock’s products will look familiar to anyone who has ever owned a robot vacuum. The company’s small battery-powered vacuums will roam the open plains of your living room, home office, bedroom, dining room, and kitchen on their own power. But that is where the similarities end, and the strengths stop looking like improvements on what already exists and start looking like a redefinition of the industry’s gold standards.
How did this happen? Well, it started with disappointment. Just like a lot of robot vacuum owners, Roborock’s founder and CEO Richard Chang was frustrated by the lack of innovation in the market.
“I never intended to create a robot vacuum of my own,” said Chang. “But when I found that none of the robots on the market felt like what I believed robot vacuum users really wanted, I felt compelled to try and build something of my own. I was lucky enough to find other people who shared my vision, and that vision became Roborock.” The first problem Roborock had to address was also the oldest: robot vacuums get stuck. Roborock was one of the first companies to popularize outfitting its vacuums with LiDAR, which is the state-of-the art technology that geologists use to map mountains and car companies use to prevent high-speed crashes. With LiDAR, Roborock’s products can map out your entire home, including the obstacles it needs to avoid.
Knowing the layout of your home is great, but a lot of what trips up yesterday’s robot vacuums are the unpredictable obstacles – a dropped shirt, a backpack, a dog leash. Robot vacuum owners have been complaining about this problem for years, and Roborock knew something had to be done about it. “Our approach may sound simplistic,” said Chang, “but it is important to listen carefully to existing consumer pains and to understand what the market needs.” So Roborock developed ReactiveAI obstacle avoidance for its S6 MaxV and S7 MaxV vacuums. Now you have a robot vacuum that can skirt around backpacks and shoes and half open doors that would have stranded outdated robot vacuums – while doing a better job cleaning tight corners and avoiding pet messes.
But not all floor surfaces are the same, and sometimes the vacuuming that works in the hallway won’t cut it in the living room. So Roborock equipped its S7 MaxV Ultra with ReactiveAI 2.0, which can identify surfaces in real time and adjust cleaning patterns and suction power to maximize effectiveness.
It isn’t just Roborock’s software that is changing the game: the S7 MaxV is a robot vacuum/mop hybrid that combines intelligent sonic mopping with a mop lift function called VibraRise®. With VibraRise®, Roborock’s S7 MaxV series vacuums can glide into the living room to vacuum granola crumbs out of the carpet right after mopping up a dropped popsicle in the kitchen. Equipped with VibraRise® and ReactiveAI 2.0, it’s little surprise Time Magazine included the S7 MaxV Ultra on its list of The Best Inventions of 2022.
Taking note from the trend towards “smart” household appliances, all of Roborock’s vacuums can be controlled via smartphone, turning your robot vacuum into an extension of yourself rather than an aimless drone. With a swipe of your finger, you can view 2 and 3-D maps of your home and select target areas and no-go zones*. But Roborock took smartphone control to the next level by giving the S7 MaxV a camera and speaker system. Did your kids spill a mountain of popcorn and in the living room during playtime? Did your vacuum miss a spot? With S7 MaxV’s camera and speakers you can tell the kids to settle down and move aside so your vacuum can get to work.
It’s one thing to have a robot vacuum that navigate every corner and clean every surface, but what about a robot vacuum that cleans itself? What if vacuuming stopped being a weekly chore, and became something you only had to think about every other month? The promise of robot vacuums is convenience, which is why Roborock is creating docking systems that can refill, charge, and even clean your robot vacuum without you lifting a finger. While outdated robot vacuums needed a watchful eye to make sure they didn’t overfill on dust mites or die under the sofa, Roborock’s docks are the only nanny your vacuum needs. The Ultra-Dock for the S7 MaxV Ultra can swap mopping fluid and empty contents while recharging the battery and scrub cleaning the mop. The Ultra-Dock stores up to 7 weeks of dust and lets a S7 MaxV Ultra mop up to 300 square meters before it needs to be cleaned, giving you peace of mind as your new favorite device scrubs away.
The legacy of robot vacuums is the device that almost changed housework forever, but instead got stuck under the coffee table or ate the fringe of grandma’s favorite rug. There have been plenty of small improvements over the years, but Chang believes his company’s approach is what is allowing Roborock to realize our dreams of a great robot vacuum.
“We do the opposite of our competitors,” Chang said. “We place consumer pain points front and center, and build our solutions around that. We want to build a connection with our customers through our brand and products, striving to understand and care about them as people, rather than obsessing over our own image.” *Features available in select models.
This is a special advertising section.
 The content herein contains the views and opinions expressed by the advertiser.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
