Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending in Computing: Best Dell Laptops ChatGPT Best Monitors Asus ROG Azoth Review How to delete a page in Word in 3 easy steps RTX 4080 vs RTX 4070 Ti Best Mac Apps AMD vs Intel Recall an Email in Outlook Home Computing News Intel is using AI to make your laptop battery last longer By Kunal Khullar Close Intel Intel’s upcoming 14th-gen desktop processors are expected to be a minor refresh , which is a bit of a disappointment. On the other hand, the mobile series is shaping up to be quite exciting. During this year’s Hot Chips conference at Stanford University, Intel executives confirmed that the upcoming 14th-gen Meteor Lake series will be driven by AI.
Meteor Lake chips will be able to make use of AI to manage power and the transition between active and low-power states, as per information shared by PCWorld.
 The company is calling it the “Intel Energy Efficiency Architecture” and the AI-based power scheme can be expected to make its way into future products, including its upcoming client processors.
“We care very much about responsiveness when we interact with the computer. We want an immediate action, and we don’t want to wait too much,” said Efraim Rotem who is part of Intel’s Design Engineering Group.
Intel’s Raptor Lake refresh prices have leaked, and hikes are on the way Get ready to pay more for Intel’s next-gen CPUs Yet another disappointment about Intel’s next chips may be true To enhance performance, the usual approach involves directing additional power to the processor. This allows the processor to operate at a higher speed, thereby completing tasks more quickly. However, the CPU needs to determine when a task is completed before transitioning the processor to a low-power mode. This concept is referred to as Dynamic Voltage and Frequency Scaling (DVFS). The issue with power management is determining the optimal frequency at which to operate the processor.
The algorithm will have the ability to understand and predict the manner in which a user opens a webpage, scans its content, concludes the interaction, and proceeds to the next task. This very algorithm has been utilized across various other activities. What sets this apart is that the algorithm autonomously learned these processes, extracting small patterns of behavior that surpass the level of detail that Intel had initially programmed.
Using AI, Meteor Lake processors will also offer improved responsiveness by up to 35%, as measured by the time it takes for the CPU to transition to a high-power state, according to Rotem. However, there’s also value in determining the optimal time to switch to a low-power state, resulting in potential energy savings of up to 15% compared to previous configurations. Rotem also emphasized the difference between “energy,” defined as the work accomplished over time divided by the power utilized for that work, and the broader metric of overall power consumption.
While Intel has yet to confirm a launch date for the Meteor Lake series of mobile processors, a rumor earlier this year from YouTuber Moore’s Law Is Dead suggests that it should reach markets in October 2023. The company, however, is planning to host the Intel Innovation conference in San Jose on September 19, where we could hear more about its new laptop CPUs.
Editors' Recommendations Some surprising details on Intel’s upcoming 14th-gen laptops just leaked Intel’s Core Ultra CPUs are more Apple, less AMD Intel’s 14th-gen Raptor Lake refresh might be a major disappointment Intel’s most powerful CPUs may not launch until 2024 Intel’s next budget CPUs may finally be worth buying for gamers Intel Tech for Change Tech News The Food Fight Computing The Lenovo ThinkPad X1 Carbon is the company's premier business-class thin and light laptop, and has made an appearance at times on our list of best business laptops. The ThinkPad X1 Carbon Gen 10 was a solid option for business professionals, and Lenovo recently refreshed the laptop with the Gen 11.
The new model switched to low-power CPUs, the only major change to go with a few different display options. You might be worried that, while low-power CPUs might provide better battery life, there could be a drop in performance. Did Lenovo sacrifice speed for longevity? Specs and configurations Computing Intel thinks your next processor upgrade should include a dedicated AI processor and its upcoming Meteor Lake chips conveniently fill that gap. The company detailed how it suspects its Vision Processing Units (VPUs) will be leveraged at Computex 2023, and it's including these processors stock on every Meteor Lake chip.
The VPU isn't new. Intel introduced this dedicated AI processor with its 13th-gen Raptor Lake processors, but only on a select few models. The company says they'll come on all Meteor Lake chips, which are slated to launch at the end of 2023.
Computing Intel is bringing the Xe Super Sampling (XeSS) upscaling feature to its integrated graphics, including its upcoming 13th-gen mobile processors. At CES 2023, the company announced that the integrated graphics on 11th-gen through 13th-gen processors will receive a slew of graphics features, including a greater than 30% jump in gaming performance thanks to XeSS in supported games -- at least according to Intel.
If you're unfamiliar, XeSS is Intel's challenger to Nvidia's Deep Learning Super Sampling (DLSS). It works by rendering your game at a lower resolution and then upscaling it with AI, improving your frame rate in the process. XeSS isn't quite as good as DLSS, but it still provides huge performance boosts in games like Hitman 3 and Shadow of the Tomb Raider based on our testing.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
