Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Audio / Video Features Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? TV dialogue is getting harder to understand. This change could help.
By Simon Cohen Close Phil Nickinson / Digital Trends Have you noticed it’s getting harder to understand what actors are saying? No, you’re not getting old (well, maybe you are, but that’s a different story). And no, it’s not a problem with that soundbar you just spent hundreds of dollars on. The sad reality is that, for a multitude of reasons, movie and TV show dialogue is getting harder to understand.
One solution for multiple problems The differences between subtitles and closed captions A simple answer to a complicated question Some, like Devin Gordon in The Atlantic, point the finger at the streaming services to which we’ve become hopelessly addicted.
Gordon cites HBO as a prime offender and offers evidence that the service is changing the original soundtrack mix in a way that harms dialogue intelligibility.
Others — who claim knowledge of the way modern content is created — say that less attention is being paid to the way sound is recorded in the first place.
Oppenheimer director, Christopher Nolan, says he intentionally avoids Automated Dialogue Replacement (ADR) , even though the postproduction technique can substantially improve the detail and clarity of voice recordings.
Finnish fuel company will ruin your music if you drive too fast New Siri remote for Apple TV could be easier to find with an embedded AirTag Spotify’s Car Thing music and podcast device could finally launch in 2021 Why is this happening? The answer is likely half technical and half financial, and I’m not going to get into either right now. Instead, I’m going to propose a somewhat low-tech solution to this high-tech problem: Every company that makes remote controls needs to add a dedicated subtitles button.
One solution for multiple problems Yes, that’s a defeatist suggestion. It effectively says to the guilty parties, go ahead, keep destroying our ability to figure out what actors are saying, we’ll just reach for our remotes and read the words instead. And yet, it solves more than one issue.
If you’ve ever spent time with a member of the Gen Z cohort — and as a father of two of these digital natives, I have logged thousands of hours in their company — you may have noticed that they think subtitles should be turned on by default.
 As many as 70% of them feel this way and 50% of millennials agree. I’ve made impassioned pleas designed to curb what I see as a fundamentally distracting mode of watching movies, but my kids suffer some kind of age-related hearing loss too (they can’t hear their father’s voice at all).
Each app does this dance differently.
So when I flop in front of the TV and discover that the subtitles I had vanquished less than 24 hours ago have been resurrected, I perform my very best old-man-yells-at-cloud routine and then I begin the task of finding the subtitle-off menu for whatever streaming service I happen to be using. On Netflix , for example, you need to begin playback of a show or movie before being able to access the Audio and Subtitles options.
 The way you access this option varies from one device to another. What’s worse is that each app does this dance differently. A single button would lower my blood pressure considerably.
Related: How to turn subtitles on/off on Amazon Prime Video How to turn subtitles on/off on Netflix How to turn subtitles on/off on Disney+ How to turn subtitles on/off on Max (HBO) There also are times when I’ve been forced to back down from my anti-subtitle position. Midway through the first episode of Peaky Blinders , as my kids grew increasingly frustrated with me, I had to concede that the combination of Irish accents and period slang were preventing me from understanding huge swaths of the story. Pressing a button would have let me quickly fix the problem without enduring the I-told-you-so stares I received as I bumbled with the settings.
The differences between subtitles and closed captions A subtitles button would be even more convenient for those who need the help that subtitles offer — like members of the Deaf and hard of hearing communities — but who find themselves at hotels or friends’ and families’ homes where the feature isn’t already turned on.
You may be thinking, wait, isn’t that what closed captioning is for — and don’t TV remotes already have closed caption buttons? The answer is surprisingly complex.
First, some background: subtitles and closed captions are similar , but they have different purposes and different technical implementations.
For Post Mortem: No One Dies in Skarnes , Netflix offers various subtitle languages, plus two options in the SDH format.
Simon Cohen / Digital Trends Closed captions are the original, legacy format for text-on-screen. They’re meant to describe various aspects of the soundtrack, including sound effects and music in addition to dialogue, for those who are Deaf or hard of hearing. Closed captions will include details like [door slams] and they sometimes label dialogue with a character’s name (e.g., “John: I never said I loved you”) to make it easier to identify who’s speaking in fast-paced scenes.
Captions can also take different on-screen forms: Live broadcasts will often use a scrolling version of captioning with several lines of text visible at once, the newest at the bottom, whereas prerecorded shows have captions that look more like conventional subtitles, with one or two lines of non-scrolling text appearing at the bottom of the screen, in sync with the actors’ speech.
While your remote control (or the one in your hotel room) might have a dedicated closed-captions button, it won’t necessarily work for streaming content, even if that content is coming from a native streaming app built into your smart TV ’s operating system. If you get your broadcast TV from cable or satellite via a separate set-top box, it won’t work for that content either — the closed captions format is incompatible with the HDMI specification — so it must be managed by the set-top box, not the TV.
Basic subtitles — the ones that you can access via streamed shows and movies, or on YouTube — exist to provide a readable version of the on-screen dialogue, typically in a different language than the soundtrack. These subtitles assume the viewer can hear the audio, but may not be able to understand the words being spoken.
Then there are subtitles designed for Deaf and hard-of-hearing viewers, known as SDH. These are the modern equivalent of closed captions and provide all of the extra information needed to understand what’s happening on-screen, even if you can’t hear the soundtrack at all.
While still the exception rather than the rule, streaming services are increasingly offering SDH in multiple languages — in addition to their non-SDH counterparts — which gives every viewer a choice over the text they want to see. These services also offer audio descriptions (AD) for Blind audience members or those with decreased vision.
Despite these easy-to-understand differences, it can still get confusing. Streaming services and device manufacturers have a tendency to use all three terms interchangeably.
A simple answer to a complicated question Simon Cohen / Digital Trends Now, back to the remote control question. If having a one-button toggle for subtitles (and/or captions) is as much of a no-brainer as it seems, why doesn’t it already exist? Once again, it’s complicated. Though nearly always present for content broadcast in the U.S. — thanks to a 1990s-era Federal Communications Commission (FCC) rule — caption availability differs across the world, making a dedicated button less universal than you might think.
And while captions are regulated for broadcasts in the U.S., streaming content operates under different rules — so far, there’s no requirement for subtitles or SDH. This means that there are times when streamed content simply has no text-on-screen option at all.
The Roku ecosytem is a good example. With thousands of apps (or channels as Roku refers to them), there’s a lot of variation in subtitle availability.
Despite this uneven landscape, Apple, Google, and Roku have simple voice commands for toggling subtitles (Amazon’s Alexa doesn’t). This gives me hope: If a voice command can be programmed to turn this feature on and off with the utterance of a few words, I see no reason why a button can’t be programmed to do the same thing.
In fact, with some additional software options, I can think of a few different ways such a button could work: access the subtitles menu, toggling subtitles on/off, and perhaps a third option where your device lets you choose how the button behaves.
Unlike other universally adopted buttons like volume and mute, there’s more complexity involved when it comes to a subtitles button, but the sheer value of having such a button should be more than enough incentive for device makers, content developers, and access providers to figure it out.
Even if we don’t end up with a standards-based button that works the same way on all remotes, simply having a set of best practices that engineers at TV and streaming device companies could follow would be a significant improvement over the Wild West approach we have today.
Fixing the dialogue quality associated with our favorite movies and shows would be great, but even if that happens, a single button dedicated to our subtitle preferences is an idea whose time has come.
At the very least, it might keep the intergenerational peace.
Editors' Recommendations Apple TV+ and other Apple One services get a price hike Conan O’Brien gets a 24/7 show on Samsung TV Plus Why 2021 could be the beginning of the end for cable TV Comcast lets people with physical disabilities control a TV with just a glance How Zvox soundbars use advanced tech to help the hard of hearing enjoy TV again Features Tech for Change The Food Fight Audio / Video Best Buy is staying true to its name, as the retail giant is churning out some impressive prices as part of its Black Friday deals. This is great news if you’re hoping to land a discount on a new TV this Black Friday shopping season. It’s pretty easy to find price drops on TVs, with even the best TVs seeing frequent discounts, but right now we’re seeing more significant TV deals taking place with Black Friday around the corner.
In Best Buy Black Friday deals you can currently find deals on top TV brands. If you want to look at individual brand's offers, check out Samsung TV Black Friday deals, Sony TV Black Friday deals and LG Black Friday deals. The smallest TV on this list is 43-inches, so if you need something smaller head over to 32-inch Black Friday TV deals. For something larger, browse 55-inch TV Black Friday deals and 70-inch TV Black Friday deals. If you just have a gift card to burn, or you're just loyal to Best Buy, check out some of the great Best Buy Black Friday laptop deals happening now too.
Audio / Video If you've been figuring out what size TV you should buy and it turns out 32 inches is just right, you may have found your options a little slimmer than with bigger TVs. While many of the best TVs are much bigger, you can still buy from some of the best TV brands as part of the Black Friday deals going on at the moment. There are some truly fantastic 32-inch TV Black Friday deals around with deep discounts to be found. We've picked out the very best deal while also featuring others you can check out.
Best 32-inch TV Black Friday deal Insignia 32-inch F20 HD Smart Fire TV -- $90, was $150 For a super cheap TV that will suit either your living room or your bedroom, the Insignia 32-inch F20 HD Smart Fire TV has all the essentials you need at this price. It might only have a 720p resolution but it has Fire TV built-in so it's simple to find all your favorite apps and thereby stream plenty of different shows and movies. Additionally, there's Alexa voice control support saving you from needing to grab your remote so often. Instead, you can speak to the TV to change input, change channel, find something to watch and all kinds of things.
Audio / Video If a 65-inch TV is the perfect size for your home theater setup upgrade according to our guide on what size TV to buy, then you shouldn't miss the discounts that are available in this year's Black Friday deals. There are offers involving some of the best TV brands, including LG, Samsung, and Sony, ranging from affordable choices to top-of-the-line models that require a hefty investment. Sony TV Black Friday deals have some cheaper 65-inch options, and Samsung TV Black Friday deals have some of the more expensive ones (think The Frame). Best Buy Black Friday TV deals and Amazon Black Friday deals cover the gamut, so check them out if brand and size aren't too important. You're going to have to be quick with your purchase though -- we're not sure how much stock retailers have available for these 65-inch TVs for the shopping holiday, so if you don't want to miss out, you'll need to complete your transaction as soon as possible.
For other sizes, browse the best 32-inch TV Black Friday deals, 55-inch TV Black Friday deals 70-inch TV Black Friday deals and 75-inch TV Black Friday deals.
The best 65-inch TV Black Friday deal Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
