Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Smart Home Products Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? 5 cool smart home gadgets for summer 2023 By Jon Bitner Close Summer is in full swing, and it’s a great time to get outside and enjoy the warm weather. It’s also a great time to think about upgrading your smart home , as there’s nothing worse than coming back from a day of adventuring to a house that’s having trouble staying cool.
From ways to cool your home and cut your energy bills to innovative gadgets for your next camping trip, here’s a look at five cool smart home products to check out this summer.
More More Rachio Rachio 3 Smart Sprinkler Controller Models for mulitple yard sizes Easy installation process Monitors local weather patterns Expensive Requires in-ground sprinkler system If you’re looking for a way to improve your in-ground sprinkler system, look no further than the Rachio 3. This fancy system is designed to replace your old, traditional sprinkler controller, giving you the ability to set different watering schedules for different portions of your yard, access your usage history remotely, and more. Best of all, the system can account for local weather patterns, changing how it waters based on wind, rain, and other parameters.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Honeywell InSight HEPA Air Purifier Rated for large rooms Powerful HEPA filters Multiple cleaning modes Bulky design With the warmth of summer comes an increased chance for wildfires. Even if you don’t live in a location vulnerable to wildfires, there’s a good chance smoke from up north will roll down to your location, making a good air purifier worth its weight in gold. The Honeywell InSight HEPA Air Purifier is more than up to the task, as it's rated for 500-square-foot rooms and features multiple operating modes to handle all kinds of airborne particulates.
More Dyson’s HP07 air purifier, heater and fan is $200 off at Best Buy The best smart locks for 2023 The best smart blinds for 2023 Amazon Amazon Smart Thermostat Can be controlled remotely Ability to set schedules Works seamlessly with Alexa Installation can be tricky The affordable Amazon Smart Thermostat is a great way to cut down your energy bills this summer. All told, you can save around $50 annually. It may not seem like much, but it’ll quickly add up over the years. There’s also a good chance you’ll qualify for a rebate on your purchase (making it remarkably cheap to upgrade). Toss in the ability to easily program cooling schedules, remote access via the smartphone app, and support for Alexa, and there’s a lot to love about this smart thermostat.
Ikea IKEA Fyrtur Smart Blinds Multiple available sizes Elegant design Remote controlled Limited smart home integration options Aside from installing a smart thermostat, smart blinds are a great way to keep your home cool and save energy this summer. The IKEA Fyrtur Smart Blinds are among the best available in 2023, thanks to their ability to fully block out light and a streamlined design. They're also cordless (which is great for families with children) and available in eight different sizes – making it easy to find one that fits your needs.
Image used with permission by copyright holder EcoFlow Wave 2 Portable Air Conditioner Futuristic design Heats and cools for year-round use Impressive cooling power Expensive Large design Looking to do a bit of camping? Beat the heat with the EcoFlow Wave 2, which offers up to eight hours of portable air-cooling abilities. Five minutes of cooling can drop the temperature by a staggering 18 degrees – though your mileage may vary based on the size of your camper and the current temp. But if you’re trying to explore the great outdoors during a heatwave, consider checking out the EcoFlow Wave 2 Portable Air Conditioner to help keep you cool.
More Editors' Recommendations The 11 best smart home products that support Matter The best smart displays for 2023 Great for large rooms: This air purifier is discounted from $200 to $90 The best smart plugs of 2023: What is a smart plug, and which do I need? Get fit at home: This Hydrow Smart Rower is $300 off at Amazon Best Products Tech for Change The Food Fight Smart Home Building a smart home doesn’t have to be expensive. In fact, there are tons of great smart locks, speakers, plugs, cameras, and more that clock in under $100 each. Whether you’re just getting started on your smart home journey or want to add a few cool products to your house, these 10 devices have tons of functionality without the hefty price tags. Everything listed below costs less than $100 (with one exception), although most can be had for less than $50. Here are the best budget smart home devices of 2022.
Deals This content was produced in partnership with Molekule.
Air purifiers will keep the indoor air quality inside your home or apartment healthy, but also will help remove odors from pets and break down other pollutants like bacteria, viruses, mold, and allergens. But while they are an excellent addition to any household, they're not typically adorned with stylish designs to match modern decor. More specifically, they can be an eyesore. That's not the case with Molekule's quaint yet effective air purifiers. Here's the best part, though. As part of the Molekule Labor Day sale, you can save $300 on the Air Pro and $75 on the Air Mini+, the brand's two most popular devices. These are intelligent air purifiers with app controls that employ PECO-HEPA filtration.
As you may know, true HEPA filters remove 99.97% of particles and pollutants, even at a microscopic level. But Molekule's PECO technology destroys what HEPA leaves behind, providing three layers of protection through light-activated treatments and more. The PECO tech eliminates organic pollutants and works alongside a carbon layer to remove extra odors and gases. In other words, the Air Pro or Air Mini+ will leave your house smelling fresh and your lungs feeling fresh, especially if you suffer from asthma or allergies. Those Labor Day deals will only be available until September 4th, so don't waste time if you're interested.
Smart Home Whether you know it or not, indoor air quality is a major concern. Allergens, debris, dust, pet dander, and many contaminants plague the air you and your family breathe, potentially causing health concerns, asthma, or worse. You can spare your home from this invasion with an air purifier. If you've ever wondered do air purifiers work, the answer is yes. Unfortunately, these suckers aren't cheap. Fortunately, air purifier deals can save you a lot of money if you know when to buy. We've done the legwork for you and found the best air purifier deals out there today. The big savings are on the budget brands like Shark, but we've found some nice discounts on name brands like LG and Dyson. Read on to find out which air purifier is best for you, considering the price, size, and features like HEPA filtering vs PECO filtering and heat and fan combos.
Alrocket HEPA Air Purifier -- $40, was $ $60 Excellent for a nightstand, the counter, or an end table. this relatively small air purifier offers cleaning for up to 215 square feet. H13 level HEPA filtration ensures that most odors and contaminants are eliminated, with microscopic particles captured, to provide relief to asthma sufferers and beyond. It is relatively simple, so there are no smart features or serious programmable modes, but that's okay. A touch-based control panel on the top, with LED indicators, allows you to adjust the system's timer, indicator lights, and power. You can add your essential oils or fragrances to the top to help disperse a more aromatic scent.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
