Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Phones Best Tablets Tesla Phone Download Android 14 Best Android Phones Home Mobile News Google is killing your passwords, and security experts are (mostly) happy By Nadeem Sarwar Close Digital Trends Google is inching closer to making passwords obsolete. The solution is called “Passkeys,” a unique form of password that is stored locally on your phone or PC, just the way a physical security key works. The passkeys are protected behind a layer of authentication, which can be your fingerprint or face scan — or just an on-screen pattern or PIN.
Why passkeys are better than passwords Passkeys are good, but they aren’t perfect What this all means for you Passkeys are faster, linked across platforms , and save you the hassle of remembering passwords for websites or services that you have subscribed to. There is a smaller scope for human error, and the risks of 2-factor authentication code interception are also reduced.
Developed in collaboration with Microsoft and Apple, Google is now taking the next steps to take passkeys mainstream by making them the default log-in option.
 You won’t be forced to ditch your usual log-in methods, but if you haven’t already enabled passkeys , you will be nudged the next time your Google account is used for a sign-in request.
Why passkeys are better than passwords Digital Trends Passkeys employ what you would call a digital handshake, which involves creating a pair of passwords using cryptographic methods. One is stored with the app or web service, while the other one remains with the user, protected by an on-device password or biometric authentication. There is no two-factor code involved, and all you need to do is tap on a prompt on your device to allow the identity verification.
Trevor Hilligoss, who has previously worked as a security expert with the FBI and currently handles security research at SpyCloud, tells Digital Trends that passkeys are “strong by nature, and it’s why many security teams prefer this mode of defense.” The biggest advantage here is that they are not dumped like your average alphanumeric password in data breaches. That’s a problem for multiple reasons because an alarmingly high number of digital citizens reuse the same password, or a predictably modified form of it, across different services.
Passkeys are faster (up to 40%, according to Google), safer, and more convenient. But Hilligoss warns that they’re not exactly a silver bullet of digital safety. “Cybercriminals are rapidly adapting to this technology by shifting their focus from stealing account credentials to account recovery methods, developing tactics to steal passkeys and launching attacks such as session hijacking.” Passkeys are good, but they aren’t perfect Security expert Trevor Hilligoss SpyCloud Hilligoss points to a technique called session hijacking — also known as cookie hijacking – where a hacker tries to take control of your online browsing session to steal sensitive data. Essentially, the bad actors fool a website into thinking that it’s a legitimate user. When a person visits a website, a session ID is created that often remains active for days.
This session data is stored in the form of numbers and letters in temporary session cookies, and it remains in the browser until the user is logged out. Hackers can steal session IDs by injecting scripts into web pages, intercepting the network traffic, deceptively installing malware on the victim’s device, or simply using pattern prediction.
“Once the attacker has hijacked a web session, they can do anything the original user can, including purchasing items, stealing confidential personal information, or accessing bank accounts,” Hilligoss adds. In such attacks, it doesn’t matter if the sign-in was allowed using a traditional password or passkeys.
What this all means for you Digital Trends Passkeys are tied to Google Password Manager, while Apple brings the iCloud Keychain into the picture, which means passkeys are also synced across devices. By default, Google also automatically creates a passkey for freshly activated Android devices. However, as we leave behind passwords, hackers are also moving ahead with more sophisticated techniques.
Passkeys also won’t block other forms of cyberattacks, like malware deployment in varied forms, a scammer impersonating a bank official on a phone call (hello, generative AI hell), social engineering attacks, and more. Passkeys only solve one side of the security flaw, but they’re from being a cure-all trick.
Digital literacy is still going to be of paramount importance in the years ahead as third-party services slowly embrace passkey. Hilligoss suggests one should prefer app-based 2-factor authentication, keep changing passwords at regular intervals, double-check the URLs and links they receive, and stay vigilant about phone calls from unknown numbers.
“Proper cyber hygiene and exercising visibility into your online accounts will go a long way in staying ahead of cybercriminals,” he concludes.
Editors' Recommendations Samsung just killed one of its most important Android phones Your iPhone has a secret feature that helps the environment — here’s how it works Google is getting ready to kill your Fitbit account What is Google Assistant? Here’s the guide you need to get started Your Google One plan just got 2 big security updates to keep you safe online Android Apple Google Microsoft Tech for Change Tech News The Food Fight Mobile Google has announced some big new features coming to Android and Wear OS devices during the Mobile World Congress 2023 event in Barcelona, Spain. These new features are beginning to roll out starting today, February 27, with others to come later.
New Android features available starting February 27 Google Drive users will now be able to do freehand annotation on Android phones and tablets. This means you are now able to use a stylus or your fingers to annotate PDFs directly in the Google Drive app on Android.
Mobile Every few months, Google releases Feature Drops with new features and fixes for its Pixel phones. While 2022 may be nearly over, that hasn't stopped Google from pushing one final Feature Drop before the year ends.
This latest Feature Drop is primarily focused on adding features to the Pixel 7 and Pixel 7 Pro that Google announced in October when it first unveiled the phones. The first big addition is free Google One VPN access. Anyone with a Pixel 7 or 7 Pro can use a Google One-powered VPN at no additional cost — this is great for more secure web browsing. Considering Google's VPN is traditionally only available with a $10-per-month Google One subscription, it's a nice value add we're happy to see.
Mobile The Competition Commission of India slapped Google with two hefty fines over anti-competitive strategies that have allowed it to dominate the mobile ecosystem in India. Totaling over $250 million, the penalties reprimand Google for forcing smartphone makers to avoid Android forks, prefer Google’s web search service, and pre-install popular cash cows like YouTube on phones.
Google was also disciplined for forcing its own billing system on developers that allowed the giant to take up to a 30% share of all in-app purchases for applications listed on the app store. Google is not really a stranger to titanic penalties; The EU handed Google a record-breaking fine of approximately $5 billion in 2018 for abusing its dominant market position — a penalty that was upheld in September this year following Google’s appeal.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
