Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Phones Best Tablets Tesla Phone Download Android 14 Best Android Phones Home Mobile News Your Oura Ring can now help you have better therapy appointments By Bryan M. Wolfe Close Oura Ring Horizon Andy Boxall / Digital Trends The Oura Ring smart ring’s abilities have just been enhanced through a new partnership with Talkspace , an online behavioral health service provider, and via the launch of an easier way to share your health data with a medical professional.
This collaboration allows Oura users to share their customized sleep data with a licensed therapist. The therapist can then evaluate the individual’s sleep patterns and daily activity level between regular appointments, resulting in more tailored treatment plans and better objectives.
Thanks to Oura’s new Share Report feature, integration with Talkspace is now possible. This handy tool allows users to share personalized reports with trusted health care professionals. As part of the testing process, Oura guided Talkspace’s team of over 4,000 licensed therapists, psychiatrists, and psychiatric nurse practitioners, helping them understand and utilize the data in their patients’ care plans.
The Oura Ring may get a fierce new competitor in January 2024 I should stop wearing the Oura Ring, but I can’t Is the Oura Ring finally good enough to replace your Apple Watch? While Oura is promoting the Talkspace partnership, all Oura Ring wearers, whether or not they use Talkspace, can still use the new Share Report feature that’s the backbone of the Talkspace integration. With it, you can choose to easily export your recent sleep data and movement activity to share it with a medical professional — whether it be your doctor, therapist, etc.
According to Dorthy Kilroy, Oura’s chief commercial officer, “Oura’s Share Report allows practitioners a complete picture of how their patients are doing in-between visits. This can have a ripple effect; the more fluent and literate people are about their own bodies, the better equipped they are to have helpful conversations with providers about their mental health and overall well-being.” Andy Boxall / Digital Trends Katelyn Watson, chief marketing officer at Talkspace, notes, “Sleep quality is one of the first items assessed on our patient intake and is viewed as a valuable marker of mental health. By bringing together Oura’s capabilities with Talkspace’s clinical expertise, we are empowering members to look holistically at how they can improve their health and well-being at work and in life.” To help promote the Oura-Talkspace promotion, Oura is providing a discount of $40 on purchasing an Oura ring. And Talkspace members can enjoy a free month’s subscription to the Oura app. As part of the promotion, Talkspace offers a discount of $100 on the first month of Talkspace services to Oura members paying for their therapy out-of-pocket.
The Oura Ring comes from Finnish-based Oura Health Oy. It’s a well-received smart ring that tracks a user’s physical activity and sleep patterns. It’s available for purchase from the Oura website starting at $299. A monthly membership plan is $6.
Andy Boxall / Digital Trends New York-based Talkspace provides online therapy services and connects clients with licensed therapists through its website or mobile app, which is one of the best therapy apps for Android and iOS.
The Talkspace integration isn’t the only Oura news in recent months. Earlier this year, the company announced Oura Circles , which allows users to share three main data points — Readiness, Sleep, and Activity — with professionals and family members alike. And late last year, the company introduced a partnership with Therabody , makers of the Theragun percussive recovery muscle massager.
Editors' Recommendations Your Oura Ring is about to get 3 powerful new health features Oura Ring’s newest feature lets you spy on your friends The Oura Ring now tells you if you really are a night owl or an early bird Oura ring now syncs its temperature data with Natural Cycles app Oura Ring gets serious about fitness, now syncs with Strava Tech for Change Tech News The Food Fight Wearables Mobile Out of every piece of wearable technology I’ve ever owned or reviewed, the Oura Ring has been the one I have worn most consistently. In fact, I have almost a year’s worth of unbroken historical data logged in the app, and that’s more than I have for the Apple Watch, my other preferred piece of wearable tech.
While I have a year’s worth of data, six months of this has been with the most recent third-generation version of the ring, making it a good time to revisit why I’ve barely taken it off. However, while I love the Oura Ring now, I don’t know how much longer that will continue.
Part of me I’ve become entirely used to wearing the Oura Ring. When I first started using the second-generation model I hadn’t worn a ring for years due to not finding them very comfortable, and was slightly concerned the Oura wouldn’t last long. I was completely wrong. The third-generation ring shares the same design and dimensions, and with correct use of the sizing kit before you buy the ring itself, the fit is perfect.
Mobile Oura, the company that makes the Oura Ring, has struck a partnership with luxury fashion brand Gucci to create a special version of its wearable health tracker. It adds the existing technology inside the Oura Ring to a new, instantly recognizable Gucci design, giving those interested in the wearable a new look to choose, provided they have the budget to do so.
The Oura x Gucci smart ring is based on the third-generation model, which was released in November 2021, complete with new sensors and more app functionality, along with a new subscription package. The Oura Ring tracks your heart rate, respiratory rate, and body temperature, then pulls the data into a clearly laid-out app to give you surprisingly deep insights into your sleep, activity, and health.
Mobile Six months ago, I said "I do" to the Oura Ring, and it has not left my finger since. It may be a piece of wearable technology, but unlike the most popular piece of wearable tech, the smartwatch, it doesn’t have a screen. Nor does it go on your wrist. You wear it on your finger, and it turns out this makes a massive difference in how you live with it. It's also not as attention-grabbing as many smartwatches, making it less bothersome on a daily basis.
In short, the honeymoon period has passed, but my feelings about the Oura Ring have not changed. If you’re curious about this exciting piece of wearable tech, it is worth taking the plunge.
Not like a smartwatch A smartwatch like the Apple Watch does everything we want from a wearable. It delivers notifications, tracks health and activity, makes and takes calls, runs apps, and plenty more. It’s a brilliant all-rounder, and it can almost certainly do more than most people will ever need, but it does need a lot of attention. Whether it's notifications, reminders to get up and move around, or daily charging, you always know the Apple Watch is there. The Oura Ring is not an Apple Watch or a Fitbit competitor. While there is some feature overlap, it caters to those with a lifestyle that doesn’t suit a smartwatch, and is far less needy.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
