Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Phones Best Tablets Tesla Phone Download Android 14 Best Android Phones Home Mobile Features Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? I wore smart glasses that made me excited for the future By Andy Boxall Close Andy Boxall / Digital Trends I know smart glasses will fit neatly into my life. I wear spectacles already, I loved Google Glass , and I often wear a smartwatch. I also wear headphones a lot to listen to podcasts while I do other things, and I like the idea of having a whopping great big screen right in front of my eyes to watch videos. A camera wouldn’t go amiss, either.
Long name, simple product The issues with today’s smart glasses Seeing the screen Is there hope for future smart glasses? But getting all this in one product is still a far-off dream, so I have to make do with separate devices for now. But sadly, the products we have currently haven’t quite hit the spot, as the TCL smart glasses I’ve been wearing (lovingly called the RayNeo Nxtwear S) have proved. However, it’s closer to getting it right than ever before.
Long name, simple product Andy Boxall / Digital Trends The TCL RayNeo Nxtwear S aren’t really smart glasses. TCL calls them XR (for extended reality) glasses, but it’s best to think of them as a monitor for your face, as they don’t have any specific functionality of their own. Instead, the RayNeo Nxtwear S connect to another device, such as your phone or computer, and displays what would normally just be shown on that device’s screen directly in front of your eyes. There’s no built-in operating system, no fancy processor, no AI voice assistant, or anything apart from a pair of Micro OLED screens and a couple of speakers.
The Razer Anzu Smart Glasses are best kept in your house Here’s why I like the idea: I can watch anything I like, in any position I like, on a big, bright screen without having to put my chosen device directly in my eye line or stare directly at an immovable object like a TV. It’s complete, immersive freedom. The 1080p image is apparently the equivalent of a 130-inch screen from a distance of four meters, and there are dual speakers pointed toward your ears, delivering sound.
The screens may not have the highest resolution, but they never look pixelated, while the contrast level ensures blacks look black and there’s enough brightness to see the screen during the day. But what I really like is that it’s a pleasurable viewing experience. Pair it with Bluetooth headphones , and you really are sealed away from the outside world, left alone to enjoy what you’re watching in peace.
The issues with today’s smart glasses Andy Boxall / Digital Trends But all of this only works well provided you put up with the compromises and use the glasses in quite specific circumstances. It’s at this point where my smart glass dreams become a bit of a frustrating nightmare, as the little annoyances quickly add up to almost ruin what is close to being a great product. Much of what I’m going to mention is applicable to smart glasses and wearable monitors in general, not just the RayNeo Nxtwear S.
I said it delivers complete, immersive freedom. Well, it does, sort of. The Nxtwear S connects to its host device with a USB-C cable, so you are tethered. I can live with this, but it’s just the start of the compromises you have to make to enjoy this interesting device. It doesn’t have a battery of its own, which is good to keep the size and weight sensible, but it really puts a strain on your device’s battery. Less than an hour of YouTube sucks 20% from my iPhone 15 Pro Max’s battery.
Previous Next 1 3 Andy Boxall / Digital Trends Andy Boxall / Digital Trends Andy Boxall / Digital Trends Despite the relative lack of hardware inside, the glasses still weigh 90 grams, nearly four times the weight of my normal, everyday eyewear. You really notice the heft after a very short amount of time, especially as the bridge piece isn’t very soft or forgiving. The USB cable can also get caught and unexpectedly tug on the glasses.
There are no controls outside of volume and brightness, so everything you do requires access to the connected device. Finally, it works best in a very dark environment. Even with the sunglass-style shades attached, anything approaching daylight bleeds through and detracts from the image.
Seeing the screen Andy Boxall / Digital Trends Just because the screen is right up against your eyes, don’t expect to be able to see it clearly if you have poor eyesight and need corrective lenses. It’s “positioned” four meters away from your eyes, and if you couldn’t normally see a screen from that far away, it’ll be a blur inside the RayNeo Nxtwear S too. Since I last looked at this situation , TCL has a partnership with a lens maker that offers custom lenses for a reasonable price. This is great news, but you’ll still need to factor this into the overall cost.
You can wear the RayNeo Nxtwear S over regular glasses, but only just, and it’s certainly not comfortable for long. The arms are big and thick behind your ears, so adding another set (even if they are thin) isn’t fun. It also means the unforgiving nose bridge is pushed further down your nose. Because the position is compromised, the screen isn’t as clear as it should be around the edges when worn like this. The simple truth is, if you need glasses, you really do need to buy a proper lens attachment.
It’s almost worth the expense because, in the right situation, the RayNeo Nxtwear S is so close to being brilliant. When I woke up early one morning, I put the Nxtwear S on and watched a few videos. I was lying on my back in a pitch-dark room, so they didn’t weigh down on my nose so much, and there was no intrusive light. It really did look excellent, and I found it very relaxing and enjoyable. I even managed to ignore the bright screen on my connected iPhone, as it has to stay awake and play what you’re watching through the Nxtwear S at the same time. See what I mean about compromises? Is there hope for future smart glasses? Andy Boxall / Digital Trends There’s a lot that makes the TCL RayNeo Nxtwear S annoying, but there’s also plenty of potential. It really is very close to being a usable wearable display, and what gives me hope is how much better it is than the really bad TCL Nxtwear G I tried previously. Advancements are being made that are taking the concept in the right direction, but it’s still not quite there yet.
TCL seems to be working to improve its smart glasses too. For example, the new Nxtwear S+ model comes with an updated, air-filled nose pad section, and the similar RayWear Air 2 glasses weigh 76 grams. Reducing weight and increasing comfort are crucial steps in making wearable displays usable for longer periods of time, and will help people forgive the other foibles too.
Using the TCL RayNeo Nxtwear S has shown me my smart glass dreams are getting closer to reality, but also that there’s still some ways to go before we get a product that wraps everything I want — screens, audio, wireless connection, smartwatch-style functionality, a camera, and all-day battery life — into one, comfortable device I can wear on my face.
Editors' Recommendations These AR glasses showed me the future of spatial computing — and I’m excited Samsung’s new upcycling program turns your old phone into a SmartThings device Features TCL Tech for Change The Food Fight Mobile A new year approaches, which means a new slate of smartphones will start to hit in a few months. One of the first that we’ll see in 2024 should be from OnePlus with its flagship OnePlus 12.
The OnePlus 11 is an excellent phone, as we indicated in our review. It’s one of the best phones you can get in 2023, and is right up there with great competitors like the Samsung Galaxy S23 Ultra, Google Pixel 8 Pro, and iPhone 15 Pro Max.
Mobile If you were hoping that the recently released Apple Watch Ultra 2 will appear with a discount in this year's Black Friday deals, you're in luck because the smartwatch's 49mm, GPS + Cellular model is currently $60 off from Amazon. From $799, the wearable device is down to $739 -- it's still not cheap, but it's rare to enjoy savings when buying an Apple product that's just a couple of months old. There's no telling how long the offer will remain online though, so before it gets taken down, push through with your purchase.
Why you should buy the Apple Watch Ultra 2 We tagged the Apple Watch Ultra 2 as the best premium smartwatch for the iPhone in our list of the best smartwatches, and at first glance, it's obvious why. The 49mm titanium case and Always-On OLED touchscreen will catch anybody's attention because of their size and brightness, while the wearable device itself is very fast and smooth because it's powered by Apple's new S9 chipset. The Apple Watch Ultra 2 can last up to 36 hours on a single charge that may be extended to up to 72 hours in Low Power Mode, and it offers a comprehensive suite of health-related and fitness features. It also comes with the customizable Action button for a more convenient way of accessing your apps.
Mobile Double Tap is one of the coolest features I’ve used on the Apple Watch in a long time. It’s not the most useful, and I don’t find myself using it that often, but when I do have a need to tap my fingers together to activate a function, I’m still at the stage where I think, “Wow, this is a really impressive thing.” Here’s why it’s an example of what Apple does best — and why there’s so much potential for the future in it.
I was worried about Double Tap Apple Watch Series 9 Andy Boxall / Digital Trends Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
