Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Space News It’s one giant leap for fashion as Prada spacesuits head to the moon By Trevor Mogg Close When NASA’s two Artemis astronauts step onto the lunar surface in the next few years, the world will be watching.
The highly anticipated mission will mark the first crewed landing in more than five decades and will see the first woman and first person of color reaching the lunar surface.
And so with all that attention, the astronauts will want to be looking their absolute best.
Enter luxury fashion brand Prada, which has partnered with Axiom Space to design the spacesuits for the Artemis III mission that’s currently scheduled for 2025.
How to watch NASA unveil its next-generation spacesuit NASA shifts launch date again for its mega moon rocket NASA reveals who will build new spacesuits for next lunar landing OK, Prada’s involvement is all about looking great in space. The company also has experience in using technology to create robust materials.
“Embedded in the culture of the company is much more than fashion,” Lorenzo Bertelli, Prada’s marketing director, said in comments reported by Space News , adding that it “actually does quite a bit of technologically advanced things.” Bertelli cited the fashion giant’s long-running experience with, for example, composite materials that emerged from its creation of the Luna Rossa yachting team for the America’s Cup in the 1990s.
Prada will focus on designing the outer layer of the spacesuit, which has to be tough enough to handle problematic lunar dust while also allowing the astronaut to move freely.
Technical aspects aside, everyone from space enthusiasts to dedicated followers of fashion will be keen to see what the final suit looks like. While Axiom Space unveiled a prototype suit in March, its collaboration with Prada means we can expect to see some changes when the final design is revealed.
Bertelli said teasingly that while the main focus is on functionality, “there are areas where you feel there will be a bit of room for creativity.” Axiom Space CEO Michael Suffredini claimed the spacesuit will look “very unique compared to what spacesuits formerly looked like.” NASA selected Axiom Space in September 2022 to develop spacesuits and support systems for the Artemis III mission. Suffredini said that NASA has been supportive of Axiom Space’s partnership with Prada, commenting: “They’ve been very receptive to everything we’ve done so far in the suit world and are open to this as well.” Editors' Recommendations Here’s where NASA will land astronauts on the moon Orion has close encounter with moon before heading home NASA targets new date for maiden launch of its mega moon rocket How to watch NASA launch its mega moon rocket on Saturday NASA scrubbed its moon rocket launch on Monday. Now what? News Tech for Change Tech News The Food Fight Space The beginning of a new era of space exploration will have to wait after an engine issue prompted NASA to scrub Monday’s launch of its next-generation moon rocket.
Preparations in the hours leading up to the planned 8:33 a.m. ET launch of NASA’s uncrewed SLS rocket from the Kennedy Space Center in Florida had been going well. But 70 minutes from lift-off, NASA stopped the countdown clock as it tried to resolve an issue with engine number three on the rocket’s core stage.
Space Poor weather conditions can play havoc with space mission schedules, so how are things looking for Monday's launch of NASA's mega moon rocket? Despite recent forecasts showing some unsettled weather in the area, NASA’s highly anticipated Artemis I rocket launch from the Kennedy Space Center in Florida on Monday currently has a 70% chance of acceptable conditions prevailing.
Space In the same week that NASA announced targeted dates for the maiden launch of its mega moon rocket, the agency has dropped a cinematic trailer (below) to spread the word about the mission.
Scheduled to take place as early as August 29, the much-anticipated Artemis I mission will usher in a new era of human space exploration that will involve returning astronauts to the lunar surface after a 50-year absence. NASA's Artemis program is also aiming to establish a sustainable human presence on the moon and use it as stepping stone for the first crewed mission to Mars.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
