Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending in Computing: Best Dell Laptops ChatGPT Best Monitors Asus ROG Azoth Review How to delete a page in Word in 3 easy steps RTX 4080 vs RTX 4070 Ti Best Mac Apps AMD vs Intel Recall an Email in Outlook Home Computing Products Meta Quest 3 is here, but is the Quest 2 still worth buying? By Alan Truly Close Meta Meta’s Quest 3 is the newest and best VR headset for standalone gaming, but Meta is still selling two other models, the budget-priced Quest 2 and the premium Quest Pro. The Quest 2 is the lowest-cost VR gaming device, but is it good enough? And is the third-generation Quest really worth the extra expense? What’s new in the Quest 3? How the Quest 2 and 3 are alike Quest 3 or Quest 2: Which is right for you? Let’s compare the Meta Quest 2 to the Quest 3, sizing up performance, display and lens quality, mixed reality capabilities, and more. Being better isn’t always good enough — you need the difference to be noticeable and worth the significant price increase. Before diving in, make sure to pull up our full Meta Quest 3 review if you want all the details.
What’s new in the Quest 3? Meta continues to push affordable VR technology forward with the Quest 3. Everything the Quest 2 does, the Quest 3 does better. That comes at a higher cost. The Quest 3 starts at $500, 67% more than the $300 Quest 2, but half the price of the Quest Pro.
VR headset Black Friday deals: Save on Meta Quest 2 and more Why it’s still a good time to buy an M2 MacBook Air How to preorder the Meta Quest 3 Meta’s Quest 3 headset isn’t meant to compete with Meta’s work-centric headset, but the Quest Pro’s lens technology inspired the design of the Quest 3. The image clarity is much improved, with a sweet spot of greatest sharpness thanks to the Quest 3’s pancake lenses.
Meta The HTC Vive XR Elite and Pico 4, competing all-in-one VR headsets , also use pancake lenses. This is a trend that will continue, since the lenses are slimmer, lighter, and remove the blurring visible at the edges of the Fresnel lenses found in the Quest 2.
The Quest 3 also borrows a page from the Quest Pro to include color passthrough for better mixed reality. In fact, the Quest 3 has less distortion and higher resolution when using mixed reality. You’ll feel more immersed in a blend of your actual surroundings and virtual elements in games that take advantage of this feature. By comparison, the Quest 2 only has grayscale passthrough.
Meta’s latest headset has a resolution of 2064 x 2208 pixels per eye, exceeding the density of every other Meta Quest headset. That equates to 30% more pixels than the Quest 2. That’s only important if the processor can handle that large of an image, and the Quest 3 can.
A display model of Qualcomm’s Snapdragon XR2 Gen 2 chip.
Tracey Truly / Digital Trends The Quest 3 uses Qualcomm’s new Snapdragon XR2 Gen 2.
 Its GPU is twice as fast as the XR2 Gen 1 in the Quest 2, so a few more pixels won’t pose a problem. The extra performance can go toward adding more detail to graphics without reducing frame rates. The Quest 3’s power should result in better gaming.
VR gaming isn’t just about the visuals — audio is important too. Meta says the Quest 3 has 40% louder sound, with better clarity and richer bass.
The Quest 3’s depth sensor maps the room creating a guardian, reducing the time it takes to setup before the games begin.
The Quest 2 controllers have large rings at the front to help the headset track the location. Unfortunately, it’s easy to get carried away and crash two controller rings together when frantically fighting zombies in a Quest game like Resident Evil 4 VR.
 That spoils the immersion and sometimes damages a controller.
The Meta Quest 3’s Touch Plus controllers don’t need tracking rings.
Meta The Quest Pro comes with Touch Pro Controllers with much-improved tracking, a more compact design that loses the rings, and advanced haptics. The Quest 3’s Touch Plus Controllers are not quite as advanced in tracking capabilities, but Meta included better haptics.
How the Quest 2 and 3 are alike Meta / Meta Meta’s Quest 3 is shaping up to be one of the best VR headsets available, and one of the least expensive. That’s a powerful combination. The only way to beat it is to offer many of the same features for significantly less.
That’s where the Quest 2 comes in. For $300, the Quest 2 lets you play the same games and run the same apps that the Quest 3 can. Meta designed these models for VR gaming, and they have a large and growing library of fun and immersive titles.
They’re lightweight and inexpensive compared to other VR headsets, yet pack a punch with a 120Hz refresh rate, depth of field tracking of the headset, wide field of view, and more.
Digital Trends Although the Quest 2 is an older model, Meta has been updating it nearly every month with improvements that have helped retain its position as thee best budget option for an all-in-one gaming system that can be connected to a PC for more intensive Steam VR gameplay.
The Quest 3 will also receive regular updates and connects to your PC for Steam VR games, but in higher resolution and with faster Wi-Fi capability.
The Quest 2 is still a versatile and valuable VR headset, while the Quest 3 boasts stronger specifications at a higher price.
Quest 3 or Quest 2: Which is right for you? Meta If you can afford the Quest 3’s higher $500 price, it’s absolutely worth the money and is more future-proof. The Quest 3 has sharper and clearer graphics, and a much faster processor to handle crisp, detailed imagery, while sustaining lag-free gaming.
Every Meta Quest 2 game runs on the Quest 3, so you won’t need to wait for titles. Meta’s latest headset has great mixed reality features and every game that supports passthrough view will automatically look much better in color on the Quest 3, compared to the low-resolution grayscale environment the Quest 2 shows for passthrough.
If $500 is too big of a stretch or if you need to buy multiple VR headsets, the Quest 2 is a bargain at $300. If cost is the only consideration, the Quest 2 is the best VR headset you can buy for $300. Other standalone VR headset manufacturers can’t compete at this price point.
Meta It’s hard to go wrong with either. The low prices of Quest 2 and 3 headsets are a testimony to Meta’s dedication to VR and a metaverse future.
As unlikely as virtual worlds sounded a few years ago, Apple’s upcoming Vision Pro headset validates Meta’s efforts.
Nvidia has invested in its version of the metaverse as well.
If you’ve been interested in VR, but haven’t committed to a headset, now might be the perfect time to start exploring what it’s all about, and the Meta Quest 3 and Quest 2 remove the risk of a big hardware investment.
Editors' Recommendations Don’t miss this Meta Quest 2 Black Friday deal — Save 17% Apple’s new M3 looks fast, but will it really be worth the upgrade? Meta Quest 3 vs. Quest Pro: Which is right for you? Don’t buy the Surface Laptop Go 3 — here’s what you should get instead Best Meta Quest 3 deals: Get Asgard Wrath 2 for free and more Facebook Versus Virtual Reality Computing The Meta Quest 3 is an exciting next-generation VR headset with some impressive features. While there are a couple of different versions with more or less storage, you can also augment your Quest 3 with a range of accessories. From replacement faceplates, to a better headband, extra batteries, and charging stations, here are the best Quest 3 accessories you can use to improve your VR gaming experience.
You can buy accessories now, but make sure to read our Meta Quest 3 review first to see if the headset is worth it.
Computing A display model of Qualcomm's Snapdragon XR2 Gen 2 chip. Tracey Truly / Digital Trends Qualcomm just announced two new Snapdragon chips, one that dramatically increases the performance available to next-generation VR headsets, and another that expands the capabilities of new smart glasses.
Computing The Lenovo Flex 3 Chromebook, a dependable and versatile device, is currently available from Best Buy with a $150 discount that pulls its price down to a more affordable $329 from its original price of $479. Not only is this one of the most attractive Chromebook deals in the market right now, but it's also a highly recommended choice if you're looking for 2-in-1 laptop deals. We don't expect this offer to last long though, so if you think this will be the perfect companion for you, you're going to have to push through with the purchase as soon as you can.
Why you should buy the Lenovo Flex 3 Chromebook The Lenovo Flex 3 Chromebook is equipped with the Intel Pentium Silver N6000 processor, integrated Intel UHD Graphics, and 8GB of RAM. These specifications are far from what you'll see in the best laptops, but they're more than enough for your everyday activities because of Google's Chrome OS. The operating system of Chromebooks is web-dependent, so it doesn't need high-end components to function smoothly. It's also equipped with just a 64GB eMMC, but since you'll have access to Google Drive for cloud storage, you'll still have enough space for your files.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
