Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending in Computing: Best Dell Laptops ChatGPT Best Monitors Asus ROG Azoth Review How to delete a page in Word in 3 easy steps RTX 4080 vs RTX 4070 Ti Best Mac Apps AMD vs Intel Recall an Email in Outlook Home Computing Products Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Meta Quest 3 vs. Quest Pro: Which is right for you? By Alan Truly Close Meta recently released the Quest 3, a $500 VR headset that shares some features of the more expensive Quest Pro. If you’d like to explore virtual reality for games, entertainment, and work, there are several points to consider before making a decision between the Quest 3 and Quest Pro.
Comfort Performance Image quality Mixed reality Controllers and dock Price Which is right for you? The operating system and app library are virtually the same. So we need to examine the price, performance, image quality, comfort, and special features to determine the best VR headset and help you identify which is right for your needs.
In many ways, the Meta Quest 3 is a game-changing VR headset that raises the bar for low-cost standalone solutions, as you can read in our Meta Quest 3 review.
 However, its design is closer to that of the Quest 2, while Meta introduced several new concepts in the Quest Pro (read our Meta Quest Pro review for more details).
VR headset Black Friday deals: Save on Meta Quest 2 and more MacBook Pro 14-inch vs. MacBook Pro 13-inch: Which one should you buy? The MacBook Pro M3 doesn’t have a memory problem — it has a pricing problem Comfort Comfort is sometimes overlooked in VR since there’s a tendency to think of the headset as technology, like a computer, tablet, or gaming console. In truth, it’s a wearable, so comfort is a critical factor in usability.
It might come as a surprise that the Meta Quest 3 is 207 grams lighter than a Quest Pro. Despite this fact, the Quest Pro will be more comfortable for most people.
Tracey Truly The sides and bottom of the Quest Pro are open. Also, the battery is at the back of the headset, so the weight is more evenly distributed.
The Quest 3 has a full light shield and battery in the front. The slimmer profile and improved soft strap ease face pressure, and I found it comfortable for about an hour of gameplay, but my skin did get a bit irritated.
“VR face” is a common effect of spending an hour or more wearing a Quest 3. A red ring in the shape of the headset remains for quite some time after removing it. It’s more noticeable for some people than others, and accessory headbands often help alleviate this problem. If you have sensitive skin, the Quest 3 might put noticeable pressure on your face after an hour of use.
Alan Truly wears the Meta Quest 3.
Tracey Truly / Digital Trends The Quest Pro’s design results in the display hovering in front of your eyes without pressure on your nose or cheeks. I can wear it for hours without discomfort. The downside is that the weight, balanced as it is, rests upon your forehead. It’s a bony area that can bear more weight, but some users find it uncomfortable.
The Quest Pro’s more open facial interface helps when working out in VR or playing intense games that might cause sweating and steaminess in a Quest 3. Most people consider the Quest Pro to be more comfortable overall. With either headset, it takes time to refine the fit, so allow a week or so to adjust to the headset you choose.
Performance Devices designated as the pro model are usually faster, but that’s not always true when comparing different generations. The Quest Pro launched in October 2022, while Meta’s Quest 3 arrived a full year later.
In technology, even a few months can bring big changes. The Qualcomm XR2+ Gen 1 processor powering the Quest Pro was a step up from the Quest 2, but the Quest 3 is significantly faster with its Qualcomm XR2 Gen 2 chip.
Meta Meta says the Quest 3 has twice the GPU performance of the Quest 2. The margin over the Quest Pro isn’t known, but it’s significant. Most games will target Quest 2 compatibility for another year or two, but there are several already taking advantage of the Quest 3’s improved graphics capability.
The Quest Pro has 50% more memory, 12GB versus the Quest 3’s 8GB. That could allow better multitasking and productivity, but I haven’t noticed that in my testing.
Image quality Meta gave the Quest Pro a big boost in clarity by using pancake optics instead of the older Fresnel lenses of the Quest 2. The Quest 3 benefits from that research and also uses pancake lenses, which eliminate “god ray” artifacts and expand the sweet spot for better edge-to-edge clarity.
Word, Excel, and Pixlr are open in windows on a Quest Pro.
Image used with permission by copyright holder The Quest 3 has Meta’s highest-resolution display, with 30% more pixels and a slightly wider field of view than the Quest Pro. The Quest 3’s refresh rate can reach 120Hz, while the Quest Pro has a maximum of 90Hz.
The Quest 3 lets you venture Into The Rift with high-quality graphics and particle effects.
Digital Trends However, the Quest Pro features mini-LED backlighting for deeper blacks and a higher dynamic range. For visual quality, it’s a matter of preference. Do you prefer a sharper image or better dynamic range? The Quest 3 delivers the former, while the Quest Pro offers the latter.
Mixed reality One of the headline features of the Quest Pro, a color mixed-reality view that blends graphics into your physical environment, caught the attention of the media. Meta’s VR headset provided a convincing glimpse of what will be possible in AR glasses of the future.
The Quest 3’s mixed reality view brings bright, colorful gaming into your actual room.
Digital Trends While it’s interesting for demonstrations, few games and apps offered a compelling reason to use mixed reality. It’s fun to play a virtual board game on your table, but sometimes the experience is better in VR where your friends have faces, even if they look cartoonish.
AR might be a feature that works best as glasses when you’re moving around and looking for computer assistance in daily life. VR is meant to be immersive so you can lose yourself in another world.
For parents and pet owners, however, there’s a good reason to stay aware of your environment. Mixed reality games allow you to see what’s happening in the real world so you can avoid stepping on a cat or crashing into someone walking through your play space.
Alan Truly works out with the Quest 3 in Les Mills Body Combat.
Tracey Truly / Digital Trends Whether or not you have a strong interest in mixed reality, the Quest 3 will outperform the Quest Pro in this area. The Quest 3 also includes a depth sensor to automatically map your room, while marking out a safe play area on the Quest Pro is a manual process.
The Meta Quest Pro has a color mixed reality view.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Controllers and dock The Quest Pro still has some exclusive features missing from the Quest 3. Eye-tracking and face-tracking are only possible with hardware built into the more expensive Meta headset.
The Quest Pro comes with a convenient charging dock to top up the battery the moment you set it aside. Plugging in a cable isn’t a big hassle, and the dock also simultaneously charges the controllers.
The Meta Quest 3’s Touch Plus Controllers look like the Quest Pro’s Touch Pros.
Alan Truly / Digital Trends The Quest 3 uses AA batteries, so there could be times when your controllers die and you’re out of batteries. The Quest 3 controllers look similar to the Touch Pro controllers of the Quest Pro, but lack their precision tracking. The Quest 3’s cameras must see the controllers to track them, while the Touch Pro controllers are self-tracking.
Meta does sell a Quest 3 dock with rechargeable batteries for the Touch Plus controllers, but it adds $130 to the price.
Price There are pros and cons for both headsets, but the Quest 3 is a newer device with better image quality and superior performance at a lower price. For $500, it’s hard to go wrong with a 128GB Meta Quest 3.
However, the Quest Pro wins on comfort and ease of use. It comes with twice as much storage and 50% more memory. Professionals might choose the Quest Pro for those reasons alone. Add in eye-tracking and face-tracking for VR chats and meetings and you can see where it could be worth the extra cost.
A person plays Demeo on the Meta Quest 3.
Meta The Meta Quest Pro currently sells for $1,000 with 256GB of storage. The Quest 3 is $500 with 128GB of storage. The 512GB model costs $650 and has double the storage of the Quest Pro.
Which is right for you? The Meta Quest 3 (left) and Quest Pro Alan Truly / Digital Trends For most people, the Quest 3 is an easy, automatic choice. If you want a low-cost VR headset for gaming, fitness, 360 movies, and generally exploring virtual and mixed reality, it’s an exciting new headset with a huge library and a long future ahead of it. Meta will keep selling the Quest 2, now at $300, for those on a tight budget.
The Quest Pro is great for people with sensitive skin who want to avoid irritation from the pressure of the device on their face. If you’re going to pop into VR throughout the day and can’t wait an hour for the effects of VR face to fade, Meta’s premium headset largely solves that problem.
If you plan to use a VR headset for work and will be going in and out frequently, the dock and rechargeable controllers keep batteries full and ready to go at a moment’s notice with the Quest Pro. For virtual meetings, the Quest Pro can animate the face and eyes of your avatar for a more natural appearance and nonverbal communication.
Ultimately, if the Quest Pro costs too much, the Quest 3 will work well for most people. If you can afford either, take a moment to consider how you’ll use the device before making a decision. There’s a reason Meta will sell both.
Editors' Recommendations Don’t miss this Meta Quest 2 Black Friday deal — Save 17% Here’s why people are raising concerns about the M3 Pro MacBook Pro HTC Vive Pro Focus Plus VR headset is 68% off right now MacBook Pro M3: Should you choose the M3, M3 Pro, or M3 Max? The M3 Max makes the MacBook Pro look like a nearly unbeatable laptop Facebook Versus Virtual Reality Computing I know plenty of people walk into Apple Stores and buy a MacBook right off the shelf because they need one. I get it.
But if you're considering a purchase of a MacBook Pro, in particular, it'll really pay off to pump the brakes. Apple is holding a surprise product launch event next Monday, and if the rumors are to be believed, all three MacBook Pros are going to get updated. Upgrading all three at once would be an unprecedented way to upgrade these laptops for Apple as it simultaneously launches the M3, M3 Pro, and M3 Max chips.
Computing Apple’s Vision Pro headset has just made a huge splash in the tech world, but Apple is already planning to follow it up with two new models that could take the headset to new heights -- and put it into the hands of more people. That includes a second-generation Apple Vision Pro, as well as a pared-back headset with a lower price.
What exactly should we expect from these devices? What kind of features will they offer, and when will they launch? If you’re seeking the answers to all those questions and more, you’re in the right place, as our rumor roundup will guide you through everything you need to know. Let’s get started.
Vision Pro 2: price and release date Computing Meta's Quest 3 is the newest and best VR headset for standalone gaming, but Meta is still selling two other models, the budget-priced Quest 2 and the premium Quest Pro. The Quest 2 is the lowest-cost VR gaming device, but is it good enough? And is the third-generation Quest really worth the extra expense? Let's compare the Meta Quest 2 to the Quest 3, sizing up performance, display and lens quality, mixed reality capabilities, and more. Being better isn't always good enough -- you need the difference to be noticeable and worth the significant price increase. Before diving in, make sure to pull up our full Meta Quest 3 review if you want all the details.
What's new in the Quest 3? Meta continues to push affordable VR technology forward with the Quest 3. Everything the Quest 2 does, the Quest 3 does better. That comes at a higher cost. The Quest 3 starts at $500, 67% more than the $300 Quest 2, but half the price of the Quest Pro.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
