Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Galaxy S23 vs Galaxy S23 Plus Galaxy S23 vs Galaxy S23 Ultra Galaxy S23 vs Pixel 7 Galaxy S23 vs iPhone 14 Galaxy S23 Ultra vs Galaxy S22 Ultra Galaxy S23 Ultra vs iPhone 14 Pro Max Home Mobile Products Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? iPhone 15 Pro Max vs. Samsung Galaxy S23 Ultra: which one is best? By Prakhar Khanna and Jesse Hollington Close Digital Trends The Samsung Galaxy S23 Ultra is one of the best smartphones of 2023. It’s one of our favorite phones to carry because of the versatile camera system, good battery life, and excellent display.
iPhone 15 Pro Max vs. Galaxy S23 Ultra: specs iPhone 15 Pro Max vs. Galaxy S23 Ultra: design and display iPhone 15 Pro Max vs. Galaxy S23 Ultra: performance, battery life, and charging iPhone 15 Pro Max vs. Galaxy S23 Ultra: cameras iPhone 15 Pro Max vs. Galaxy S23 Ultra: software and updates iPhone 15 Pro Max vs. Galaxy S23 Ultra: special features iPhone 15 Pro Max vs. Galaxy S23 Ultra: price and availability iPhone 15 Pro Max vs. Galaxy S23 Ultra: which one should you buy? But there’s a new challenger in town – the iPhone 15 Pro Max.
 Apple’s latest flagship iPhone brings better optical zoom capabilities to challenge the Galaxy S23 Ultra. It’s also got a design update with build materials that are solid for long-term use. Here’s how the iPhone 15 Pro Max compares to the Galaxy S23 Ultra.
iPhone 15 Pro Max vs. Galaxy S23 Ultra: specs iPhone 15 Pro Max Samsung Galaxy S23 Ultra Size 159.9 x 76.7 x 8.25 mm (6.29 x 3.02 x 0.32 inches) 157.7 x 78 x 8.9 mm (3.07 x 6.43 x 0.35 inches) Weight 221 grams (57.8193 ounces) 234 grams (8.25 ounces) Screen size 6.7-inch OLED with ProMotion (120Hz dynamic) 6.8-inch Dynamic AMOLED 2X (120Hz dynamic) Screen resolution 2796 x 1290 resolution at 460 pixels per inch 3088 x 1440 resolution at 500 pixels per inch Operating system iOS 17 Android 13 with One UI 5.1 Storage 2556GB, 512GB, 1TB 256GB, 512GB, 1TB MicroSD card slot No No Tap-to-pay services Apple Pay Google Pay, Samsung Pay Processor Apple A17 Pro Snapdragon 8 Gen 2 for Galaxy RAM 8GB 8GB, 12GB Cameras Rear: 48-megapixel (MP) primary, 12MP ultrawide, and 12MP telephoto Front: 12MP Rear: 200MP primary with Laser Auto Focus, 12MP ultrawide, and 10MP telephoto Front: 12MP Video Rear: Up to 4K at 24, 25, 30, or 60 frames per second (fps), FHD at up to 60 fps, and slow-mo Front: Up to 4K at up to 60 fps Rear: Up to 8K at 30 frames per second (fps), 4K at 60 fps, FHD at 120 fps, and 960 fps for slow motion Front: Up to 4K at 60 fps Bluetooth Yes, Bluetooth 5.3 Yes, Bluetooth 5.3 Ports USB-C USB-C Biometrics Face ID Ultrasonic in-display fingerprint sensor and Face Recognition Water resistance IP68 IP68 Battery N/A 20W charging Wireless charging No reverse wireless charging 5,000mAh Super Fast Charging 2.0 at 45W Fast Wireless Charging 2.0 Wireless PowerShare App marketplace Apple App Store Google Play Store Network support 5G 5G Colors Black Titanium, White Titanium, Blue Titanium, and Natural Titanium Phantom Black, Cream, Green, and Lavender Price From $1,199 From $1,199 Available from All major offline and online retailers All major offline and online retailers How I use my Apple Watch and iPhone to manage my diabetes This iPhone 15 and iPhone 14 camera test is closer than I expected How to take a screenshot on the Samsung Galaxy S23 iPhone 15 Pro Max vs. Galaxy S23 Ultra: design and display 1.
iPhone 15 Pro Max 2.
Samsung Galaxy S23 Ultra The iPhone 15 Pro Max uses glass and titanium as materials for the design. For years, the Pro Max iPhones have been some of the heaviest phones on the market, but the iPhone 15 Pro Max sheds almost 20 grams, reducing its weight to 221 grams. By contrast, the Galaxy S23 Ultra features a glass and aluminum build that has it weighing in at 234 grams. Both smartphones offer IP68 dust and water resistance.
Switching to the front, you get a 6.7-inch display on the iPhone 15 Pro Max versus the 6.8-inch screen on the Galaxy S23 Ultra. The iPhone 15 Pro Max has a brighter display that can go up to 2,000 nits, while the Galaxy S23 Ultra maxes out at 1,750 nits. Both smartphones support a 120Hz dynamic refresh rate and enough pixels on the screen to make the content look sharp.
The iPhone 14 Pro Max had a big ergonomics problem, and the Galaxy S23 Ultra was more comfortable to use compared to it. Apple says that it’s improved the ergonomics of the new iPhone with slightly curved edges, and in real-world use, those claims hold true. Plus, the reduced weight results in a better feel in the hand. While the Galaxy S23 Ultra offers a fingerprint sensor for authentication, you get Face ID with the iPhone 15 Pro Max.
With a brighter display and lighter design, the iPhone 15 Pro Max wins this round.
Winner: iPhone 15 Pro Max iPhone 15 Pro Max vs. Galaxy S23 Ultra: performance, battery life, and charging Joe Maring / Digital Trends The iPhone 15 Pro Max is powered by Apple’s in-house A17 Pro chipset, which is built on the 3nm process. It features a 6-core CPU, a 6-core GPU, and a 16-core Neural Engine.
Apple promises that you’ll be able to play console games on your iPhone , which is a first for any phone ever; a few titles, like Resident Evil 4, have already appeared for pre-order on the App Store. Plus, you get 256GB on the base variant, just like the Galaxy S23 Ultra.
The Samsung flagship houses the Qualcomm Snapdragon 8 Gen 2 for Galaxy chipset , which performed well in our review. We haven’t found any lag or stutters in our time using the S23 Ultra. However, the GPU performance on the iPhone is looking to be more powerful. Both smartphones offer three storage variants in the form of 256GB, 512GB, and 1TB.
Andy Boxall / Digital Trends Apple didn’t make any tall claims about the battery life on stage while announcing the iPhone 15 Pro Max. Some members of the Digital Trends team have had below-average experiences with their iPhone 14 Pro Max, especially compared to the outstanding battery life of the iPhone 13 Pro Max.
 While it’s improved over the months, the battery life still leaves much to be desired. By contrast, the Galaxy S23 Ultra offered better endurance on a single charge. So far, the iPhone 15 Pro Max hasn’t fared much better, even with the new chipset, but some of that may also be down to iOS 17, which is also having a bigger negative impact on the battery life of the iPhone 14 Pro Max.
On a related note, the Galaxy S23 Ultra charges faster at 45W versus 27W on the iPhone 15 Pro Max. You don’t get a charger in the box for either of these phones, but you can now charge your new iPhone with any Android charging cable, as the Lightning port has been replaced with USB-C.
The A17 Pro chip is a performance beast, but with longer battery life and faster charging on the Samsung phone, the S23 Ultra wins.
Winner: Samsung Galaxy S23 Ultra iPhone 15 Pro Max vs. Galaxy S23 Ultra: cameras 1.
iPhone 15 Pro Max 2.
Samsung Galaxy S23 Ultra The Samsung Galaxy S23 Ultra has the most versatile camera setup on any smartphone. It comes with a 200-megapixel (MP) primary camera, two 10MP telephoto sensors for 3x and 10x optical zoom, and a 12MP ultrawide-angle lens.
It’s one of our favorite phones to carry with us on vacations for its lively colors and excellent zooming capabilities.
The iPhone 15 Pro Max brings the competition to Samsung’s best phone with a 5x optical zoom, but you miss out on 3x optical zoom – that’s only available on the iPhone 15 Pro , which lacks 5x optical zoom. However, Apple delivers a virtual 2x optical zoom from the main lens of the iPhone 15 Pro Max by using the center 12 megapixels of the 48MP sensor. It’s also worth adding that the iPhone’s 5x telephoto lens has a surprisingly wide f/2.8 aperture compared to the f/4.9 of the 10x camera on the Galaxy S23 Ultra, which should produce much better pictures in low light conditions.
Joe Maring / Digital Trends In terms of numbers, the iPhone 15 Pro Max sports a triple rear camera setup with a 48MP primary camera, a 12MP ultrawide sensor, and a 12MP telephoto camera. Apple says it’s improved HDR on photos on the iPhone 15 lineup thanks to its newer Smart HDR 5 technology. Moreover, you get an updated portrait mode where the phone captures depth data in every photo, so you can turn a regular photo into a portrait image in the Photos app.
In practical terms, the iPhone 15 Pro Max produces great photos with balanced colors and even more realism and character than its predecessor. Of course, the Galaxy S23 Ultra is also no slouch in this department; it beat out the iPhone 14 Pro Max in nearly all categories in our head-to-head comparison earlier this year , and it’s still an open question how much ground Apple has gained with the iPhone 15 Pro Max.
When it comes to video, the Galaxy S23 Ultra captures does a good job, but we expect the iPhone 15 Pro Max to do better thanks to its support for Dolby Vision HDR and ProRes. Plus, you can now record 4K videos at 60 frames per second (fps) directly to an external storage on the new iPhone. On the front lies a 12MP selfie shooter on both phones.
Both phones take incredible photos, and a lot of it will come down to personal preference. This one is a tie.
Winner: Tie iPhone 15 Pro Max vs. Galaxy S23 Ultra: software and updates Joe Maring / Digital Trends While Apple doesn’t promise a specific number of updates for its phones, it doesn’t really need to. The company has a proven track record of offering at least five years of major iOS updates for its phones, and sometimes even six. The iPhone 15 Pro Max ships with iOS 17 , so it should get updates until at least iOS 22 in 2028, and possibly even iOS 23. However, considering that Apple is still releasing security updates for the 2013 iPhone 5s, it’s likely the iPhone 15 Pro Max will get security patches well into the 2030s.
As for Samsung, the company has a 4 + 5 year update policy where the phone will get four years of Android OS upgrades and five years of security patches. Since it shipped with Android 13, that means Android 17 will be the end of the road for major OS updates in 2027, and it will be cut off from security patches by the end of 2028.
It’s a personal choice on the OS side of things. While iOS gives you Apple ecosystem benefits, we don’t like the fact that there’s no multiwindow or popup window support – both of which are available on Samsung’s One UI. That being said, you won’t have any major concerns using either iOS or Android.
Winner: Tie iPhone 15 Pro Max vs. Galaxy S23 Ultra: special features Previous Next 1 2 Joe Maring / Digital Trends Andrew Martonik/Digital Trends Both phones carry special features that we haven’t talked about yet. The iPhone 15 Pro Max offers Dynamic Island and Live Activities , which offer an intuitive user experience. It also offers an Action button that can be customized to specific tasks, which is also possible with the S23 Ultra’s side key.
On the other hand, the Galaxy S23 Ultra is the only flagship phone to offer a built-in stylus that resides inside the smartphone’s body. It’s really useful for clicking selfies, and it’s also great for annotations as well. Oh, and you can take 100x zoom images and moon shots with the Galaxy S23 Ultra, which is still not possible on the iPhone.
Winner: Tie iPhone 15 Pro Max vs. Galaxy S23 Ultra: price and availability The iPhone 15 Pro Max starts at $1,199 for the 256GB storage variant and is available in capacities up to 1TB for $1,599. It comes in Natural Titanium, Blue Titanium, Black Titanium, and White Titanium finishes and can be purchased directly from Apple or at most retail and carrier stores.
The Galaxy S23 Ultra launched at the same price of $1,199 for the 256GB version up to $1,619 for the 1TB model, although it can now easily be found at discounted prices. It’s available in Phantom Black, green, lavender, and cream from most carriers and major retailers, plus exclusive graphite, red, sky blue, and lime when ordering directly from Samsung.
iPhone 15 Pro Max vs. Galaxy S23 Ultra: which one should you buy? Joe Maring / Digital Trends The iPhone 15 Pro Max features an upgraded processor and a new telephoto camera for better zooming capabilities while offering software upgrades to HDR and portraits. You also get a brighter display and the Dynamic Island. On the other hand, the Galaxy S23 Ultra remains the phone with a more versatile camera setup, S Pen support, moon shots, and better software for multitasking.
For many people, this will come down to software preference. If you’re deep in the Apple ecosystem and you know you want an iPhone, the iPhone 15 Pro Max is the easy choice. If you’re more of an Android person, you’ll be happier with the Galaxy S23 Ultra.
Andy Boxall / Digital Trends Okay, but what if you’re open to using either phone? That’s where things get a little more complicated.
If you want a big phone that doesn’t feel like it, the new design of the iPhone 15 Pro Max is outstanding. The prospect of playing console-quality games is also really intriguing, and its camera system is fantastic. The Galaxy S23 Ultra comes out ahead if you want the longest possible battery life, faster charging, and one of the most versatile zoom cameras on a phone today.
Regardless of which one you end up choosing, you can rest assured you’re buying one of the best smartphones available today.
Editors' Recommendations It looks like the iPhone 16 will get a big design upgrade The iPhone is getting out of control 4 AI features I want in my next iPhone I figured out how to protect my iPhone without an ugly case The best Samsung Galaxy S23 Plus cases: 21 you can’t ignore Apple Apple iPhone Samsung Versus Mobile If you already own the new Apple iPhone 15 or any of its variants but you're still stuck with a basic case, it's highly recommended that you take advantage of this year's Black Friday deals to enjoy some savings on a much-needed upgrade. Not only should you be providing the necessary protection for your iPhone 15 to keep it unscathed, but it would be a huge bonus to place it in a case that looks stylish and matches your personality. However, there's a problem -- there are thousands of iPhone 15 case deals that are available for Black Friday, so it's going to be very hard to narrow down your choices. That won't stop us from trying though, so you should read on.
Best iPhone 15 case Black Friday deal For serious protection without making your iPhone 15 too heavy, you should go for the OtterBox Commuter Series, which is on sale in Amazon's early Black Friday deals for $35 instead of $40. The $5 discount may not look like much, but it's a welcome bonus for what we've tagged as the best rugged case in our roundup of the best iPhone 15 cases. It's capable of withstanding three times the military standards for drop protection with a hybrid dual-layer construction that combines recycled rubber with a rigid outer shell, but it stays slim and lightweight so your iPhone 15 won't feel like a brick in your hands. We're not sure if this lowered price will remain online through to the shopping holiday, so you should think about making the purchase right now.
Mobile iPhone 14 Plus (left) and iPhone 15 Plus Andy Boxall / Digital Trends If you’re reading this article, chances are high that you keep pretty up-to-date with modern technology, including smartphones like Apple’s iPhone. You may upgrade your phone every few years, or — if you’re like me — you might even upgrade every year.
Mobile The decision isn’t always easy when looking for a new smartphone, especially when a manufacturer releases strikingly similar phones simultaneously. A case in point is Samsung, which released three top-tier Galaxy handsets earlier this year: the Galaxy S23, Galaxy S23 Plus, and Galaxy S23 Ultra.
The Galaxy S23 Ultra is Samsung’s top-of-the-line handset and is in a league all its own. It’s a little more challenging to tell the difference between the Galaxy S23 and Galaxy S23 Plus. We will break down these two devices for you here so you can see which will better fit your needs.
Galaxy S23 vs. S23 Plus: specs Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
