Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Apple Watch Series 8 Review Google Pixel Watch vs Apple Watch Series 8 Apple Watch Series 8 vs Apple Watch Ultra Is the Apple Watch Series 8 Waterproof? Apple Watch Series 8 vs Apple Watch Series 7 Home Mobile Products Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Apple Watch Series 9 vs. Series 8: everything new and different By Christine Romero-Chan and Jesse Hollington Close The Apple Watch Series 9 (left) and Apple Watch Series 8 Andy Boxall / Digital Trends Apple’s huge iPhone 15 event has come and gone, and not only do we have a brand new iPhone 15 lineup, but we also have the Apple Watch Series 9.
Apple Watch Series 9 vs. Apple Watch Series 8: specs Apple Watch Series 9 vs. Apple Watch Series 8: design Apple Watch Series 9 vs. Apple Watch Series 8: screen Apple Watch Series 9 vs. Apple Watch Series 8: processor and software Apple Watch Series 9 vs. Apple Watch Series 8: battery and charging Apple Watch Series 9 vs. Apple Watch Series 8: fitness and health tracking Apple Watch Series 9 vs. Apple Watch Series 8: price and availability Apple Watch Series 9 vs. Apple Watch Series 8: verdict But how does it compare to the previous generation? Is it worth the upgrade if you have the Apple Watch Series 8 ? Or, if you were considering getting your first Apple Watch, which would be a better buy at this point? We break it all down here.
Apple Watch Series 9 vs. Apple Watch Series 8: specs Apple Watch Series 9 Apple Watch Series 8 Materials Aluminum Stainless Steel Aluminum Stainless Steel Sizes 41mm 45mm 41mm 45mm Colors Aluminum: Midnight, Starlight, Silver, Product Red Stainless Steel: Gold, Silver, Graphite Aluminum: Midnight, Starlight, Silver, Product Red, Pink Stainless Steel: Gold, Silver, Graphite Display Always-on Retina LTPO OLED 1,000 nits peak brightness Always-on Retina LTPO OLED 2,000 nits peak brightness, 1 nit lowlight Processor S8 S9 Double-tap gesture Accessibility only Yes Siri Wi-Fi or cellular data required On-device Sensors Temperature sensor, blood oxygen sensor, electrical heart sensor, and third-generation optical heart sensor Temperature sensor, blood oxygen sensor, electrical heart sensor, and third-generation optical heart sensor Battery life 18 hours 18 hours Fast charging Yes Yes Ultra Wideband U1 Second-generation Ultra Wideband chip with Precision Finding for iPhone 15 Apple Watch Ultra 2 just got its first serious discount Google Pixel 8 Pro vs. Google Pixel 8: don’t buy the wrong Pixel Google Pixel Watch 2 vs. Google Pixel Watch: should you upgrade? Apple Watch Series 9 vs. Apple Watch Series 8: design Palette watch face Andy Boxall / Digital Trends The design for both the Apple Watch Series 8 and Series 9 is the same. This follows the tradition that Apple has kept for its mainline Apple Watch Series devices, including the Apple Watch SE.
You’ll find the classic square design with curved edges, along with either aluminum or stainless steel casing options. The sizing remains the same for both models, either the smaller 41mm or the larger 45mm option.
The Apple Watch Series 8 comes in four colors for aluminum: Midnight, Starlight, Silver, and Product Red. The stainless steel finish has three colors: Gold, Silver, and Graphite.
For the Apple Watch Series 9, we have the usual Midnight, Starlight, Silver, and Product Red colors for aluminum, as well as the new Pink color. This is a subtle pink finish, like rose gold, rather than a bright pink. The stainless steel option has the same Gold, Silver, and Graphite offerings as before.
Apple Watch Series 9 vs. Apple Watch Series 8: screen Andy Boxall / Digital Trends The Apple Watch Series 8 has an always-on Retina LTPO OLED display that reaches 1,000 nits of peak brightness. It comes in either 41mm or 45mm sizes,. The aluminum versions have Ion-X glass, while the stainless steel has sapphire crystal displays.
The Apple Watch Series 9 is very similar, also offering the always-on Retina LTPO OLED display, Ion-X glass for aluminum models, and sapphire crystal for stainless steel. It also comes in 41mm or 45mm sizes.
However, one of the big changes with the Apple Watch Series 9 is the peak brightness level, which now reaches 2,000 nits. This matches up to the first-generation Apple Watch Ultra , making it even more usable outdoors in bright sunlight. It also goes down to just 1 nit in low-light environments, so you aren’t blinded in the dark.
The Apple Watch Series 9 has the Series 8 beat in terms of brightness levels, so it’s the better pick overall, especially if you’re constantly in bright, sunny conditions.
Apple Watch Series 9 vs. Apple Watch Series 8: processor and software Andy Boxall / Digital Trends Here’s where things start to differentiate more.
Inside the Apple Watch Series 8 is the S8 chip, which is basically the same as the S7 chip in the Apple Watch Series 7 , which was similar to the S6 in the Apple Watch Series 6 — you get the idea.
Apple’s finally changing things up with the Apple Watch Series 9’s new S9 chip. It uses a new chip technology that hasn’t been in the Apple Watch before, and it consists of 5.6 billion transistors and a GPU that is 30% faster than the S8’s. It also has a four-core Neural Engine that processes machine learning tasks up to twice as fast as before.
The S9 chip also allows the Apple Watch Series 9 to process all Siri requests on the watch itself. This means there’s no more need for Wi-Fi or cellular data for simple requests, such as starting a timer or beginning a workout, and it also comes with more accuracy when dictating text, such as a response to a message. Plus, you’ll now be able to ask Siri questions about your health data, like “How much did I sleep last night?” or “How far have I walked today?” and use Siri to log almost any piece of health information you could other enter into the Health app on your iPhone.
Apple And with the S9, you can control the Apple Watch without actually touching the display with the new Double Tap gesture.
 Just quickly tap your index finger and thumb of your watch hand together twice to perform many actions and navigate through watchOS 10. The double-tap gesture can stop a timer, control audio, snooze alarms, answer or end phone calls, or even take a photo with your iPhone camera. Double Tap also opens the Smart Stack widget on the watch face , and you can scroll through them with the gesture.
The Apple Watch Series 9 also has a new second-generation Ultra Wideband (UWB) chip that enables Precision Finding for the iPhone 15 series. This assists you with finding a misplaced iPhone through visual, haptic, and audio guidance, similar to AirTags. The new UWB chip also means better integration between the Apple Watch and HomePod, allowing you to launch Now Playing to control HomePod media when you’re nearby. However, it’s important to add that, despite this new chip, the Apple Watch Series 9 still can’t locate an AirTag or other lost Find My item on its own; the new Precision Finding is solely for tracking down your misplaced iPhone 15.
Apple’s new S9 chip is a big deal in terms of improving the Apple Watch’s performance and efficiency. While the S8 system in a package (SiP) before it basically remained unchanged from previous generations, the S9 allows you to do so much more from your wrist. It’s an especially worthy upgrade if you are coming from an even older-generation Apple Watch.
Apple Watch Series 9 vs. Apple Watch Series 8: battery and charging Andy Boxall / Digital Trends Apple claims that the Apple Watch Series 8 can get around 18 hours of battery life on a single charge. This is pretty accurate and similar to previous iterations of the Apple Watch as well — you’ll have to charge it up by the end of the day.
Thankfully, the Apple Watch Series 8 is capable of fast charging, which means it can go from zero to 80% in around 45 minutes.
Unfortunately, despite the new S9 chip, the Apple Watch Series 9 does not see any meaningful change in battery life or charging speed. You can expect to get around 18 hours of battery life like before, and the Series 9 still has the same fast charging speeds.
Apple Watch Series 9 vs. Apple Watch Series 8: fitness and health tracking Andy Boxall / Digital Trends Surprisingly, Apple made no changes to the Apple Watch Series 9 this year in terms of new health sensors. The sensors remain unchanged from the Series 8.
This means with both the Apple Watch Series 9 and Apple Watch Series 8, you have SpO2 (blood oxygen) monitoring, ECG, 24/7 heart rate monitoring with high and low heart rate notifications, irregular rhythm notifications, low cardio fitness notifications, temperature sensors, and sleep tracking. Both watches can also detect if you take a hard fall and also have Crash Detection for car accidents.
Both the Apple Watch Series 9 and Series 8 can run watchOS 10, which has a lot of improvements for cyclists, as there will be new metrics, views, and experiences just for cycling. For hikers, watchOS 10 will have the Compass app automatically generate two new waypoints: Last Cellular Connection and Last Emergency Call. There is also a new Elevation view.
Both Apple Watches can also be used to track your mood, which is good for mental health, and the ambient light sensors can help you track time spent in daylight, which is beneficial for health.
Apple Watch Series 9 vs. Apple Watch Series 8: price and availability Nike Globe watch face Andy Boxall / Digital Trends The Apple Watch Series 9 starts at $399 for the aluminum version, with the stainless steel models starting at $749. It’s available for immediate purchase from Apple’s website and other major retailers and carriers.
With the Apple Watch Series 9 becoming available, the Apple Watch Series 8 is discontinued. However, you can probably find remaining stock at various big-box retailers at a discounted price.
Apple Watch Series 9 vs. Apple Watch Series 8: verdict The Apple Watch Series 9 (top) and Apple Watch Series 8 Andy Boxall / Digital Trends The Apple Watch Series 9 is one of the biggest improvements that Apple has made to the wearable in years.
The S9 chip is a big deal, and rightfully so — Siri requests are now processed on-device, and the Double Tap gesture allows for one-handed control. The addition of a new, second-generation UWB chip makes it possible to use your Apple Watch to locate a misplaced iPhone 15 series (and later), similar to how you locate AirTags.
While the design and display look the same as before, the 2,000 nits of peak brightness makes the Apple Watch Series 9 much more usable outdoors in harsh sunlight.
The only odd thing about the Apple Watch Series 9 is that even with the S9 chip, there are no improvements made to the overall battery life. You still get the same 18 hours as before. While the Apple Watch Series 8 felt a lot like the Series 7 and Series 6 before it, the Apple Watch Series 9 feels fresh and new thanks to the S9 chip. Oh, and that pink color is simply beautiful.
But is all of that worth an upgrade from the year-old Apple Watch Series 8? That all depends on you. While the new S9 processor sounds impressive, the Series 8 is no performance slouch. Considering that and the very similar display, battery, and health-tracking experiences between the two watches, you’re probably fine waiting another year to see what the Apple Watch Series 10 has to offer.
The Apple Watch Series 9 is bound to be a fun upgrade if you’ve got the cash to burn, but if not, don’t fret too much about missing out on this one if you already have an Apple Watch Series 8.
Editors' Recommendations Double Tap is the coolest Apple Watch feature I’ve used in ages Black Friday Apple Watch deals: Save on Series 9, Ultra, and more Apple Watch Series 9 just got its first big discount for Black Friday Google Pixel 8 Pro vs. Samsung Galaxy S23 UItra: don’t buy the wrong one Apple Watch Ultra 2 vs. Apple Watch Ultra: should you upgrade? Apple Apple Watch Versus Wearables Mobile Long-standing rumors point to the 2024 Apple Watch being truly special in a few ways. A new design is one of the hot rumors, but it seems Apple wants to make another health-centric leap by allowing the smartwatch to read blood pressure and also look for signs of sleep apnea.
According to Bloomberg, the next Apple Watch will come equipped with a new sensor that will measure variations in blood pressure. A successor slated for arrival in 2025 could measure the exact systolic and diastolic blood pressure values.
Mobile Google unveiled the Google Pixel 8 lineup at its October Made by Google event in New York. Though there aren’t any drastic upgrades to the Pixel 8, Google made some smaller changes that are sure to be welcome among fans.
But Apple also released the iPhone 15 lineup in September — and it's one of the Pixel 8's biggest competitors. If you’re in the market for a new smartphone, which one should you pick up? The Pixel 8 and iPhone 15 are both the baseline models for Google and Apple, respectively, so let’s take a closer look at these two phones.
Mobile Fitness enthusiasts can get excited for some savings today, as one of the better smartwatch deals we’ve found is on the Apple Watch Ultra. In fact, this is one of the lowest prices we’ve seen on the popular smartwatch, as you can get the Apple Watch Ultra for just $629 at Best Buy. This is a savings of $170 from its regular price of $799. Free shipping is included, and so are four free months of Apple Music and four free months of Apple Fitness+.
Why you should buy the Apple Watch Ultra The Apple Watch Ultra is a more recent addition the Apple Watch lineup, and while there is a newer model available in the Apple Watch Ultra 2, this first-generation model is still incredibly capable and worth the savings it offers. When it comes to the full scope of the Apple Watch lineup, the Ultra sits at the top. It’s made to be rugged, durable, and stylish, and makes good accompaniment both in the wild and out on the town. It comes with LTE cellular capability as a standard feature, so you can pair it with your carrier and get internet service anywhere your carrier provides coverage.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
