Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Phones Best Tablets Tesla Phone Download Android 14 Best Android Phones Home Mobile Products Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Google Pixel Watch 2 vs. Samsung Galaxy Watch 6: Has Google done it? By Mark Jansen Close Google Pixel Watch 2 (left) and Samsung Galaxy Watch 6 Digital Trends The Google Pixel Watch 2 has been announced , and while the design may be almost identical to the much-maligned Google Pixel Watch , Google’s new smartwatch is very much a different beast. The Pixel Watch 2 has received significant upgrades under the hood, including a powerful processor, more storage, and much faster charging. Add in Fitbit’s excellent fitness tracking and some impressive new features for personal wellness, and you’ve got an impressive new smartwatch that’s set to blow away the largely negative reception of the first Pixel Watch.
Pixel Watch 2 vs. Galaxy Watch 6: specs Pixel Watch 2 vs. Galaxy Watch 6: design and display Pixel Watch 2 vs. Galaxy Watch 6: performance, battery life, and charging Pixel Watch 2 vs. Galaxy Watch 6: fitness and health-tracking features Pixel Watch 2 vs. Galaxy Watch 6: software and features Pixel Watch 2 vs. Galaxy Watch 6: price and availability Overall winner: Samsung Galaxy Watch 6 Meanwhile, Samsung’s Galaxy Watch range has long been a stalwart of the smartwatch sector, and the new Samsung Galaxy Watch 6 is one of the best smartwatches you can buy right now — and the best around where Android is concerned. So, it’s clearly the biggest and baddest competition for potential Pixel Watch 2 buyers.
How does Google’s latest smartwatch compare to Samsung’s latest? We compared the two smartwatches to find out, so you know which is worth your money.
Pixel Watch 2 vs. Galaxy Watch 6: specs Google Pixel Watch 2 Samsung Galaxy Watch 6 Display size 1.2 inches 40mm: 1.3 inches 44mm: 1.53 inches Body size 41mm 40mm 44mm Resolution in pixels 384 x 384 (320 pixels-per-inch) 40mm: 432 x 432 (453 ppi) 44mm: 480 x 480 (453 ppi) Touchscreen AMOLED, always-on display Super AMOLED, always-on display Storage 32GB 16GB Wireless interface Bluetooth 5.0, Wi-Fi 802.11 b/g/n, NFC, LTE Bluetooth 5.3, Wi-Fi 802.11 b/g/n, dual-band, NFC, LTE Depth 0.48 inches (12.3mm) 0.35 inches (9mm) Blood oxygen sensor Yes Yes Accelerometer Yes Yes Gyroscope Yes Yes Ambient light sensor Yes Yes Heart rate sensor Yes Yes Barometer Yes Yes GPS Yes Yes Compass Yes Yes Water/dust resistant IP68 IP68 Battery life Up to 24 hours Up to 24 hours Price From $349 From $300 DT review News 4.5 out of 5 stars Pixel Watch 2 vs. Galaxy Watch 6: design and display Google Pixel Watch 2 Andrew Martonik / Digital Trends Google hasn’t changed the design of the Pixel Watch 2, and since it spent years cooking up the Pixel Watch, you can see why it might be reluctant to change things up after one generation. As a result, if you weren’t keen on the first Pixel Watch’s look, you aren’t going to like the Pixel Watch 2. It sports a unique design, with a smooth glass dome matched by a gently curved aluminum body, broken only by a haptic crown and a side button. There are slight differences between the new and first Pixel Watch, though, as the Pixel Watch 2’s dome is slightly thinner, and the frame is a little lighter. It’s still a thick watch, though, with a depth of 12.3mm.
Samsung Galaxy Watch 6 Joe Maring / Digital Trends By comparison, the Galaxy Watch 6 is much slimmer, measuring just 9mm deep. While 3.3mm may not seem like a lot, a difference of whole millimeters can mean a lot when it’s jutting out from your wrist, and the much slimmer profile of the Galaxy Watch 6 wins it some serious points here. The Samsung watch also looks a lot more like a traditional wristwatch and has different-sized frames for larger and smaller wrists — something the Pixel Watch 2 still doesn’t offer.
Google Pixel Watch 2 Google The Galaxy Watch 6 continues to rack up wins when we look at the displays on offer. The Pixel Watch 2’s 1.2-inch AMOLED display is clear and bright, and the 384 x 384 resolution comes in at a nice 320 pixels per inch (ppi). It’s no match for the Galaxy Watch 6’s Super AMOLED display, though, as you’re looking at a crisp 453 ppi whether you opt for the 1.2-inch display or the 1.53-inch display. The Pixel Watch 2 also inherits its predecessor’s chunky bezels, which look incredibly dated next to the slim bezels on the Galaxy Watch 6.
While the Pixel Watch 2 isn’t bad-looking, it certainly doesn’t hold a candle to the Samsung Galaxy Watch 6.
Winner: Samsung Galaxy Watch 6 Pixel Watch 2 vs. Galaxy Watch 6: performance, battery life, and charging Joe Maring / Digital Trends The Pixel Watch 2 has received a significant upgrade in processing power. The dated Exynos 9110 used in the first Pixel Watch has been replaced by the Qualcomm Snapdragon W5 processor, and while we haven’t had the chance to fully test it, we expect this change will give the Pixel Watch 2 a noticeable bump in performance. It’s hard to say how the performance will compare to the Galaxy Watch 6’s Exynos W930 dual-core processor, but the likelihood is that the two will both have smooth performance across the board.
Battery life is likely to be a bigger decider here than performance, so it’s unfortunate we don’t yet know how this will shake down. The Galaxy Watch 6 has a solid battery life, and we found we were able to squeeze almost two days out of a single charge. We haven’t fully reviewed the Pixel Watch 2 yet, and while it does have a larger cell than the first Pixel Watch, we’ll have to wait and see whether the Pixel Watch 2 can match the Samsung watch.
The Pixel Watch 2 has a dramatically upgraded charging speed too. Google claims it can go from zero to 100% in 75 minutes, vastly outstripping the 2.5 hours it took the first Pixel Watch to do so. The Samsung Galaxy Watch 6 charges up to full in just over an hour, so the two devices are likely to be similar in this regard.
It’s all even here for the moment — but only until we get some hands-on time with the Pixel Watch 2. We suspect the battery life will be the crucial difference maker here, but until we’re sure, this is a tie.
Winner: Tie Pixel Watch 2 vs. Galaxy Watch 6: fitness and health-tracking features Google Pixel Watch 2 Joe Maring / Digital Trends There’s no shortage of health and fitness tracking features on either of these watches. Google has leaned on its ownership of Fitbit to push some of that brand’s excellent tracking to its smartwatch, and so the Pixel Watch 2 has some new toys. Those include the new, more accurate heart rate tracker from the Fitbit Charge 6 , a new electrical sensor to measure stress, and a sensor to record your body temperature.
The Galaxy Watch 6 has a heart rate tracker, regular stress tracking, and a skin temperature sensor. It also has Samsung’s own Bioelectrical Impedance Analysis (BIA) sensor, which can measure your skeletal muscle, fat mass, body water, body fat, body mass index (BMI), and basal metabolic rate (BMR). Is it better? Possibly, though it’s not likely that the extra data from the BIA sensor will mean much to you unless you’re really deep into your fitness.
Joe Maring / Digital Trends Those sensors power the fitness tracking, and here there’s a larger gap. The Pixel Watch 2 has 40 workout modes, with automatic tracking for a number of them. But this pales next to Samsung’s 90 workouts and similar automatic tracking. If you’re a fitness buff, Samsung’s broader range of exercises will surely appeal. The original Pixel Watch had some basic workouts missing, including indoor cycling, and while it’s likely Google can add these workouts with updates, it illustrates an odd approach to fitness.
Despite Fitbit’s involvement, fitness tracking on the original Pixel Watch wasn’t the best, and while the Pixel Watch 2 seems to have improved, it doesn’t look to be at Samsung’s level yet. We’re giving this to the Galaxy Watch 6 until we’ve had a chance to play with the Pixel Watch 2 some more.
Winner: Samsung Galaxy Watch 6 Pixel Watch 2 vs. Galaxy Watch 6: software and features Galaxy Watch 6 Joe Maring / Digital Trends Both of these watches run Google Wear OS 4 , but the Galaxy Watch has Samsung’s One UI interface layered on top, adding more customization for users. It’s not an enormous difference, and choosing between them is going to be a matter of preference. While the extra elements added by One UI are likely to be welcomed by most people, the differences aren’t something you’re going to feel like you’re missing out on.
The most important parts of Wear OS are available on both devices, including Google’s services like Google Maps, Assistant, YouTube Music, and more. Expect to see Samsung’s apps on the Galaxy Watch, and both watches also have access to a bunch of third-party apps like Spotify — though keep in mind that your choice of apps still isn’t the best on Wear OS.
Google Both watches also have some useful additional features built in. Both have skin temperature sensors, as mentioned earlier, as well as emergency SOS services. Google has taken this a little further with the Pixel Watch 2 by including Safety Check, which alerts people if you take longer than planned to reach a destination, and Safety Signal, which can trigger an alert even without an LTE connectivity plan.
There aren’t too many differences in software here to really set the two apart, but we’re suckers for personal safety features. The Pixel Watch 2 takes this.
Winner: Google Pixel Watch 2 Pixel Watch 2 vs. Galaxy Watch 6: price and availability Andrew Martonik / Digital Trends The Samsung Galaxy Watch 6 is currently available, and prices start from $300 for the 40mm frame with Wi-Fi connectivity. You’ll pay more for the larger size, adding an LTE connection, or pairing your purchase with some rather snazzy watch straps.
The Google Pixel Watch 2 is now available, having launched on October 12. Prices start from $349, making it a whole $49 more than the Samsung smartwatch. It only comes in the one frame size. An LTE model is also available for $50 more.
Overall winner: Samsung Galaxy Watch 6 Joe Maring / Digital Trends While a lot is still to be decided for sure, it seems that Google hasn’t managed to topple its major competitor in the Android smartwatch space. The Samsung Galaxy Watch 6 is a gorgeous device that’s clever, useful, and pretty much everything you can want out of a smartwatch. While the Google Pixel Watch 2 is likely a big improvement over last year’s Pixel Watch, it doesn’t quite have what it takes to supplant Samsung’s place at the top of the tree.
Some of this is based on assumption, however, and our final verdict hinges on how well the Pixel Watch 2 does in our review. If it excels in certain areas, it could end up clawing some points back, but at the moment, we can’t see it overturning the final result here. However, it’s clear Samsung can’t be content to rest on its laurels, as the next Pixel Watch could end up being the one that upends the market.
Editors' Recommendations These are the 6 biggest Google Pixel 8 problems (and how to fix them) Subscriptions are quickly ruining fitness trackers Don’t need the latest model? Samsung Galaxy Watch 4 is $99 today Google Pixel 8 Pro vs. Samsung Galaxy S23 UItra: don’t buy the wrong one Apple Watch Ultra 2 vs. Apple Watch Ultra: should you upgrade? Android Google Google Pixel Samsung Samsung Galaxy Unpacked 2023 Versus Wearables Mobile Google introduced an updated charging system on the Google Pixel Watch 2 that juices up the battery inside at a quicker pace. It's also more secure than the previous charger and doesn't get quite as hot. For the most part, it's a good upgrade.
But it seems some users of the smartwatch are facing charging woes. Multiple users are reporting that the supplied charging kit won’t fill up the second-generation Pixel Watch's battery.
What's wrong with the Pixel Watch 2 Mobile As one of Best Buy's early Black Friday deals, you can currently buy the Google Pixel Watch for $200 saving you $80 off the usual price of $280. While it isn't the latest model any more, this is still one of the best smartwatch deals at the moment. If you're not sure if you should opt for it or pay more for the Google Pixel Watch 2, we're here to help. Keep reading while we explain all as well as remind you of the deal involved.
Why you should buy the Google Pixel Watch The Google Pixel Watch doesn't make the cut among the best smartwatches but it's still worth checking out for many people. It has an attractive 1.2-inch always-on display with up to 1,000 nits of brightness which is actually the same as the Google Pixel Watch 2.
Mobile Google unveiled the Google Pixel 8 lineup at its October Made by Google event in New York. Though there aren’t any drastic upgrades to the Pixel 8, Google made some smaller changes that are sure to be welcome among fans.
But Apple also released the iPhone 15 lineup in September — and it's one of the Pixel 8's biggest competitors. If you’re in the market for a new smartphone, which one should you pick up? The Pixel 8 and iPhone 15 are both the baseline models for Google and Apple, respectively, so let’s take a closer look at these two phones.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
