Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Phones Best Tablets Tesla Phone Download Android 14 Best Android Phones Home Mobile Products Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? OnePlus Open vs. Samsung Galaxy Z Fold 5: a really close call By Nadeem Sarwar Close Digital Trends OnePlus has officially entered the foldable phone fray, going up against the likes of Samsung. In fact, OnePlus appears to have done a surprisingly impressive job in its very first attempt, blending refined hardware with a finely tuned software experience. OnePlus’ folding phone is called the OnePlus Open , and it’s a prime competitor of the Samsung Galaxy Z Fold 5.
OnePlus Open vs. Samsung Galaxy Z Fold 5: specs OnePlus Open vs. Samsung Galaxy Z Fold 5: design and hardware OnePlus Open vs. Samsung Galaxy Z Fold 5: screens OnePlus Open vs. Samsung Galaxy Z Fold 5: cameras OnePlus Open vs. Samsung Galaxy Z Fold 5: internals OnePlus Open vs. Samsung Galaxy Z Fold 5: software OnePlus Open vs. Samsung Galaxy Z Fold 5: verdict OnePlus put ambitious camera hardware inside the OnePlus Open that puts it on par with dedicated camera-centric flagships. It also builds on the company’s lead in battery charging technology, especially when pitted against the top-tier phones from top brands like Apple, Samsung, and Google. Is it a proper Galaxy Z Fold 5 killer? Read on to find out.
OnePlus Open vs. Samsung Galaxy Z Fold 5: specs OnePlus Open Samsung Galaxy Z Fold 5 Size 153.4 x 143.1 x 5.8 mm Unfolded: 6.11 x 5.12 x 0.25 inches Folded: 6.11 x 2.64 x 0.62 inches Weight 239 grams 263 grams Screen Main: 7.82-inch inner Flexi-fluid AMOLED Cover: 6.31-inch inner Super Fluid AMOLED Main: 7.6-inch Dynamic AMOLED 2X Cover: 6.2-inch Dynamic AMOLED 2X Screen resolution Main: 2440 x 2268 pixels (426 pixels per inch) Cover: 2484 x 1116 pixels (431 pixels per inch) Main: 2176 x 1812 pixels (372 pixels per inch) Cover: 2316 x 904 pixels (402 pixels per inch) Operating system Android 13 with OxygenOS 13.2 Android 13 with One UI 5.1 Storage 512GB 256GB, 512GB, 1TB MicroSD card slot No No Tap-to-pay services Google Pay Google Pay, Samsung Pay Processor Qualcomm Snapdragon 8 Gen 2 Qualcomm Snapdragon 8 Gen 2 Camera Rear: 48-megapixel primary + 48-megapixel ultrawide + 64-megapixel telephoto Front: 32-megapixel (cover display) and 20-megapixel (inner display) Rear: 50-megapixel (MP) primary, 12MP ultrawide, and 10MP telephoto Front: 4MP under-display on main screen and 10MP on cover screen: Video 4K at 30/60 fps 1080p at 30/60 fps 720p at 30/60 fps Dolby Vision HDR at 4K , 30 fps; 1080p, 30 fps Slo-mo video at 1080p, 240/480 fps; 720p, 240/480 fps 8K at 24 frames per second 4K UHD at 30/60 fps 1080p FHD at 30/60 fps 720p HD at 30 fps Super Slow-mo 720p at 960 fps Slow motion 1080p at 240 fps Connectivity 2×2 MIMO 2.4G/ 5G /5.8G Wi-Fi 6E, Wi-Fi 7 Wi-Fi 802.11 a/b/g/n/ac/ac wave 2/ax/be, 8 Spatial-stream sounding MU-MIMO 2G GSM, 3G WCDMA, 4G LTE FDD, 4G LTE TDD, 5G Sub6 FDD, 5G Sub6 TDD Bluetooth version Bluetooth 5.3 Bluetooth 5.3 Ports USB-C USB-C Water resistance IPX4 IPX8 Battery 4,805 mAh 67W SUPERVOOC wired Charging 4,400 mAh 25 W fast charging Wireless charging and reverse wireless charging App marketplace Google Play Store Google Play Store Colors Emerald Dusk, Voyager Black Graygreen, Phantom Black, beige, burgundy (Samsung Exclusive) Price Starts at $1,699 Starts at $1,800 One of my favorite Samsung features is coming to OnePlus phones The best Samsung Galaxy S23 Plus cases: 21 you can’t ignore Samsung Galaxy S23 vs. Galaxy S23 Plus: a tough choice to make OnePlus Open vs. Samsung Galaxy Z Fold 5 : design and hardware Prakhar Khanna / Digital Trends One of the biggest design flaws that Samsung addressed with its current-generation foldable is the display wedge, which has been removed. All previous Samsung foldables have had an open gap when the two halves are shut. This space was an open invitation to dirt, liquid, and other undesirable elements. The Z Fold 5 closes completely flat when it’s shut and doesn’t have this problem.
Samsung made progress this time around by paying special attention to the inner foldable screen and the hinge durability. The Galaxy Z Fold 5 offers IPX8-level protection from dust and water resistance, while the OnePlus Open is limited to IPX4 certification and is less resilient. However, if history and my own experience are any indication, the flexible panel and the underlying hinge parts are still vulnerable. And the worst part is that repairs don’t come cheap.
Christine Romero-Chan / Digital Trends OnePlus has managed to solve that part of the problematic equation with a gapless design in its first attempt. When the phone is closed, there is no gap left across any edge. Both the phones rely on a metal and glass foundation, but OnePlus once again went for a more exquisite concoction. Where Samsung uses stainless steel and Gorilla Glass Victus, the OnePlus Open embraces a cobalt molybdenum alloy and titanium alloy that is said to be four times stronger than surgical-grade stainless steel.
Coming to the display engineering, the foundation is identical — a flexible Ultra-Thin Glass (UTG) layer. But that’s where the similarities end. Where Samsung adopts Corning’s Gorilla Glass Victus, the OnePlus Open takes the Apple approach. The Chinese smartphone maker used what it calls Ceramic Guard, which is said to be 20% stronger than the Gorilla Glass Victus on the Galaxy Z Fold 5.
Even in the aesthetics department, OnePlus has taken an edge over its Samsung rival. The OnePlus Open stays loyal to the brand’s signature green tone with a frosted glass finish. But it’s the second trim, with a leather finish added to it, that really stands out. There aren’t many phones out there — and certainly not from the mainstream brands sold in the West — that offer a leather-derived look on phones.
Winner: OnePlus Open OnePlus Open vs. Samsung Galaxy Z Fold 5: screens Prakhar Khanna / Digital Trends One of the biggest trade-offs that Samsung made in its quest to make foldable phones more comfortable was making them tall so that one-handed usage is not much of a chore. But in doing so, the company went with a tall aspect ratio for the cover display that really takes its own toll on the user experience because of odd app scaling due of tight horizontal space. On the OnePlus Open, the outer screen is a natural 20:9 format, which means you won’t face any issues with how apps pan out on this panel.
Otherwise, both the panels are as good as one gets on a phone. On the Galaxy Z Fold 5 , you get a 6.2-inch HD+ cover screen and a 7.6-inch inner foldable panel with QXGA+ resolution. But the screens are of the AMOLED variety and offer a peak refresh rate of 120Hz. On the OnePlus Open, the outer 6.3-inch display offers a higher 2K resolution, while the inner screen is slightly bigger at 7.82 inches across, with a noticeably higher resolution of 2,440 x 2,268 pixels. Once again, you’re looking at OLED panels with a maximum 120Hz refresh rate.
Christine Romero-Chan / Digital Trends Both OnePlus and Samsung have baked in their own system-level tweaks for app window management. But the Galaxy Z Fold 5 takes the lead with tricks like DeX, which essentially turns your phone into a PC that offers an Android-derived desktop computing experience on the larger screen. Samsung also makes it extremely easy to use the phone as a secondary monitor for your PC courtesy of the Smart View system.
It’s hard to pick a winner here in terms of sheer quality, as both phones offer screens with a vivid color profile, adequate brightness output, and freaky viewing angles. But if one were to nitpick, the inner foldable screen on the Galaxy Z Fold seems more immersive, and that’s because of the under-display camera tech that virtually hides the round selfie camera and offers an all-screen experience. We’re still going to call it a tie, though.
Winner: Tie OnePlus Open vs. Samsung Galaxy Z Fold 5: cameras Christine Romero-Chan / Digital Trends If one were to do a spec assessment, the OnePlus Open’s camera hardware is leaps and bounds ahead of the Galaxy Z Fold 5.
 On its maiden foldable phone, OnePlus has fitted an all-new Sony sensor with a fundamentally reimagined pixel-level photodiode architecture, which results in photos with more details and tighter control over colors. It’s a 48-megapixel optically stabilized sensor that sits alongside another 48MP electronically stabilized camera for ultrawide capture.
The telephoto camera is the most interesting element here. Despite the phone’s impressively thin profile, OnePlus managed to cram in a massive 64MP periscope-style telephoto camera that offers an optical zoom range of 3x, in-sensor 6x zoom output, and up to 120x Ultra Res digital zoom coverage.
The cover screen hosts a 20-megapixel selfie camera, while the inner foldable panel is home to a 32MP sensor.
Tushar Mehta / Digital Trends On the Galaxy Z Fold 5 , you get a 50MP telephoto camera, a 10-megapixel ultrawide camera, and a 10-megapixel telephoto camera that delivers 3x optical and 30x digital zoom. This is a regular pancake format telephoto camera, unlike the folded lens system you get on the OnePlus Open that guarantees a much higher zoom output.
To handle selfies, Samsung’s foldable offers a 10MP camera on the front and a 4MP under-display camera sandwiched between the foldable panel halves. But in the latter’s case, innovation comes at a cost. Since the camera is covered by a layer of pixels, the final image turns out noticeably softer, with lost details and a lot of software-side reconstruction done to it.
Winner: OnePlus Open OnePlus Open vs. Samsung Galaxy Z Fold 5: internals Andy Boxall / Digital Trends Samsung’s foldable flagship relies on Qualcomm’s 8 Gen 2 chip, paired with 12GB RAM and up to 1TB onboard storage. The OnePlus Open relies on the same processor, but offers 16GB of RAM and half the peak storage at 512GB. There’s also a virtual RAM facility on the table that borrows some of the UFS 4.0 storage and deploys it as dynamic RAM.
OnePlus takes a massive lead when it comes to the power segment. The Chinese brand’s foldable phone features a bigger 4,805 mAh battery. It offers support for 67-watt fast charging, with OnePlus claiming that you can charge the phone from empty to 100% juice in 42 minutes. There is no support for wireless charging here.
On the Samsung Galaxy Z Fold 5 , you get a smaller 4,400 mah battery that only goes up to 25W wired charging. However, it offers support for 15W wireless charging and also the facility to juice up other accessories like earbuds at a 5W output by just putting them atop the phone’s rear shell.
Winner: Samsung Galaxy Z Fold 5 OnePlus Open vs. Samsung Galaxy Z Fold 5: software Christine Romero-Chan / Digital Trends Software can make or break a foldable phone, and at the end of the day, it matters a lot whether you prefer Samsung’s One UI experience or OnePlus’ OxygenOS experience. Both foldable phones offer their own take on split-screen app multitasking, allowing up to three apps to stay active at any given time. Native Android apps take full advantage of the larger screen real estate and open into a two-page view.
OxygenOS has cultivated a fandom of sorts for customizability, but it doesn’t offer the same kind of flexibility in tweaking the UI and behavior of apps that One UI 5.1 (or later versions) does. The Samsung Labs toolkit and the Good Lock modules are the best examples of deep system-level customization that isn’t available on any mainstream phone out there, foldable or otherwise.
Tushar Mehta / Digital Trends The biggest advantage that the Galaxy Z Fold 5 has to offer, from a power user’s perspective, is DeX, which essentially gives the phone ChromeOS-like superpowers, especially when it comes to working in a mobile-derived large screen experience. The OnePlus Open, just like its Samsung rival, also offers handy screen-mirroring tools, but Samsung just makes it more convenient to access them.
What works in OxygenOS is an active community, and compared to One UI, OnePlus has been quicker at ironing out software quirks owing to that. Both the phones come with an assurance of four years worth of software updates. It isn’t as good as iPhones or the seven-year update promise Google made for the Pixel 8 and Pixel 8 Pro , but four years is still one of the best guarantees that Android manufacturers have to offer.
Winner: Samsung Galaxy Z Fold 5 OnePlus Open vs. Samsung Galaxy Z Fold 5: verdict Christine Romero-Chan / Digital Trends There’s only $100 worth of difference between the $1,699 OnePlus Open and the $1,800 Galaxy Z Fold 5.
 That’s not a negligible gap by any stretch of the imagination, but you have to keep three crucial aspects in mind before you decide to splurge on one or the other. First, Samsung has partnerships with nearly all major carriers and retail outlets, with all doling out attractive offers on its flagship foldable phone. Samsung’s own exchange deals and the freebies (or store credits) that it offers significantly bring down the net hit on your wallet Another aspect that you need to keep in mind is the fact that Samsung has a far deeper presence in the U.S. market compared to OnePlus, so if you run into repair and part replacement situations , getting it done on a Samsung foldable would be a more convenient experience compared to OnePlus. Finally, that IPX8 certification tilts the longevity scale in favor of that Galaxy Z Fold 5 , and that’s an important consideration when it comes to foldable phones.
Andy Boxall / Digital Trends Digital Trends has reached out to OnePlus regarding the brand’s repair and replacement policy for the OnePlus Open and will update this article upon getting a response. From a value perspective, both phones offer their own set of benefits, but here’s the lowdown.
If you seek the best camera experience and a standout design that feels as close to a normal phone experience, the OnePlus Open is where you should look. If you value brand assurance, can’t live without wireless charging convenience, and appreciate what Samsung has to offer on the software front, the Galaxy Z Fold 5 should be your next foldable phone.
Editors' Recommendations OnePlus 12: news, rumored price, release date, and more I did a Pixel 8 and OnePlus 11 camera test. Picking a winner wasn’t easy Here’s our first look at OnePlus’ next Apple Watch killer Google Pixel 8 Pro vs. Samsung Galaxy S23 UItra: don’t buy the wrong one There are early Black Friday deals on the Samsung Galaxy Z Fold 5 OnePlus Samsung Samsung Galaxy Unpacked 2023 Versus Mobile OnePlus’ first foldable smartphone — the OnePlus Open — has had a far smoother sailing compared to Samsung’s debut. Of course, OnePlus relied heavily on sister company Oppo’s foldable experience to deliver a knockout device. The end product feels significantly more refined from an aesthetic perspective and raw camera prowess compared to Samsung’s latest offering.
But getting the hardware is only half the job done when it comes to foldable devices. Surprisingly, the OnePlus Open delivers a UI experience more polished than I had anticipated. I’ve been pushing the device for the past few weeks, and more than neat tricks, I’ve been surprised by the sheer fluidity of the OxygenOS experience on this one. The experience is particularly rewarding for app multitasking, and notably, it involves fewer barriers compared to what Samsung serves with One UI 6.
An incredible multitasking experience Mobile That’s it: the Samsung Galaxy Z Flip 5 has completely changed the way I feel about foldable smartphones.
When the phone was released, its advances over the Galaxy Z Flip 4 prompted me to buy it instead of upgrading my Galaxy Z Fold 4 to a Galaxy Z Fold 5, and now having returned to it after several months, I know I made the right decision. Here’s why.
Big folding phones aren’t changing enough The Galaxy Z Fold 4 (left) and Galaxy Z Fold 5 Andy Boxall / Digital Trends Mobile OnePlus has been doing a lot of cool stuff lately. Thee company released its first tablet, the OnePlus Pad, earlier this year, and it just launched its first folding phone, the OnePlus Open.
Though folding phones continue to be a small niche in the overall smartphone market, they’ve been growing in popularity recently. And there are a few reasons why one would want a foldable: a convenient larger screen when you need it and a small screen when you don’t, easier multitasking, and more.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
