Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Apple Watch Series 8 vs Apple Watch Series 7 Best Apple Watch Faces Apple Watch SE 2 vs Apple Watch SE Apple Watch Series 8 vs Apple Watch Ultra Track Sleep with an Apple Watch Home Mobile Deals Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Black Friday Apple Watch deals: Save on Series 9, Ultra, and more By Noah McGraw Close Digital Trends Apple makes one of the best smartwatches on available, but it comes with the Apple price tag. The Apple Watch is not cheap, but Black Friday deals can cut the price a bit. We’ve pulled our favorite Black Friday smartwatch deals on the most recent Apple Watch releases: SE, Series 9 and Ultra. The bottom of this list includes some deals on older models, too. Almost everything comes from Amazon Black Friday deals , so if you’re looking for Apple discounts, start there. These are all available right now, even though Black Friday is still a ways away.
Best Apple Watch SE Black Friday deals Best Apple Watch Ultra Black Friday deals Best Apple Watch Series 9 Black Friday deals Other Apple Watch Black Friday deals we love More Apple Black Friday deals Best Apple Watch SE Black Friday deals Andy Boxall / Digital Trends The Apple Watch SE is Apple’s budget-friendly smartwatch option. If all you need in a smartwatch is health stats and some basic phone integration (and you need to stick with Apple), the SE is your best bet. The Apple Watch SE 2 is one of our favorite options, and we don’t have much bad to say about it. If you’re looking for something cheap and don’t mind shopping beyond Apple, Fitbit Black Friday deals are taking off right now, and Fitbit offers similar functionality as the Apple Watch SE. Below you’ll find some SE options with and without GPS, and both 44mm and 40mm.
Apple Watch SE (1st Gen, 44mm) — Apple Watch SE (2nd Gen, 40mm, GPS) — Apple Watch SE (2nd Gen, 44mm, GPS) — Apple Watch SE (40mm, GPS) — Best Apple Watch Ultra Black Friday deals Joe Maring / Digital Trends The Apple Watch Ultra is the most rugged smartwatch in the Apple family. This watch is designed to be taken to the tallest mountains and under the deepest oceans. It’s extraordinarily resistant, and it has special features for adventurers like GPS tracking and limited satellite SOS messaging if you get lost. We gave the Apple Watch Ultra a perfect 10 out of 10 when it launched. If you’re looking for a rugged watch, check out Garmin Watch Black Friday deals too.
Apple Watch Ultra (49mm, GPS + Cellular) — Apple Watch Ultra 2 (49mm, GPS + Cellular) — Apple Watch Ultra (49mm, GPS, refurbished) — Save on everything from laptops and tablets, to coffee makers and air purifiers, and a whole host of Apple tech like iPad, Apple Watch and even the latest M3 MacBooks, as well as smart home essentials like the Amazon Echo and smart bulbs.
Best Apple Watch Series 9 Black Friday deals Andy Boxall / Digital Trends The Apple Watch Series 9 is the newest entry in the main line of Apple Watches. If has enhanced speed and functionality, with a specific focus on the Double Tap feature. Double Tap lets you tap the thumb and forefinger of your watch hand together to control various operations. That means you don’t need both hands free for things like starting and stopping playback. The Apple Watch 9 is pretty new, so there aren’t a ton of deals available yet.
Apple Watch 9 (45mm, GPS) — Apple Watch Series 9 (41mm, GPS) — Other Apple Watch Black Friday deals we love Jesse Hollington / Digital Trends The options above are deals on the most popular versions of the Apple Watch, but there are so many other models. The Apple Watch Series 8 is still very popular, and it’s gotten some discounts since the launch of the Series 9. Previous models like the 7, 6 and 5 also have nice Black Friday Apple Watch deals.
Apple Watch Series 8 (45mm, GPS) — Apple Watch Series 7 (45mm, GPS) — Apple Watch Series 6 (44mm, GPS, refurbished) — Apple Watch Series 5 (44mm, GPS, used) — More Apple Black Friday deals If you’re a fan of Apple, check out these other deals available right now: Mac Mini Black Friday deals Black Friday AirPods deals Refurbished Apple Black Friday deals Black Friday MacBook deals iPad Black Friday deals Editors' Recommendations Best iPad Black Friday deals: iPad Mini, iPad Air, iPad Pro, and more 75 best Amazon Black Friday deals on laptops, TVs, Apple, and more Walmart Black Friday deals: The best offers you can shop now Best Amazon Fire tablet Black Friday deals: Get a tablet for $40 Google Pixel Black Friday deals: Pixel 8, Pixel Watch, Pixel Buds and more Deals Apple Apple Watch Wearables Mobile If you were hoping that the recently released Apple Watch Ultra 2 will appear with a discount in this year's Black Friday deals, you're in luck because the smartwatch's 49mm, GPS + Cellular model is currently $60 off from Amazon. From $799, the wearable device is down to $739 -- it's still not cheap, but it's rare to enjoy savings when buying an Apple product that's just a couple of months old. There's no telling how long the offer will remain online though, so before it gets taken down, push through with your purchase.
Why you should buy the Apple Watch Ultra 2 We tagged the Apple Watch Ultra 2 as the best premium smartwatch for the iPhone in our list of the best smartwatches, and at first glance, it's obvious why. The 49mm titanium case and Always-On OLED touchscreen will catch anybody's attention because of their size and brightness, while the wearable device itself is very fast and smooth because it's powered by Apple's new S9 chipset. The Apple Watch Ultra 2 can last up to 36 hours on a single charge that may be extended to up to 72 hours in Low Power Mode, and it offers a comprehensive suite of health-related and fitness features. It also comes with the customizable Action button for a more convenient way of accessing your apps.
Mobile It's no tall tale to say that the best Black Friday deals for the year are probably already here. Many retailers are getting in on the action with some great discounts. Now's the time to shop if there's something, heck, anything you're looking for. Like mobile or prepaid SIM deals, for example, as service providers all over are dropping their prices. If that's what you want to shop, keep reading, because we've gathered up all of the best prepaid SIM Black Friday deals in one place, right here.
Our favorite prepaid SIM Black Friday deal One of the best prepaid SIM Black Friday deals is from Boost Mobile. Right now, at Best Buy, you can get access to the three months and 5GB of data plan for just $15, normally $45, which saves you an incredible $30. Bear in mind, this is a pre-loaded SIM kit, which means you'll need to supply your own compatible phone or get one if you don't have one already.
Web Black Friday is a great time to splurge on expensive purchases you've been holding out on. TVs, appliances and phones are some of the most popular purchases during the shopping event. Samsung is a big player in all of these areas, and Samsung products are not known for being cheap. Thankfully some retailers have already started early Black Friday deals, and there are some great discounts available on Samsung products. We've collected the best Samsung deals we can find on TVs, tablets, phones, monitors, soundbars and appliances.
Samsung TV Black Friday deals Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
