Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending in Computing: Best Dell Laptops ChatGPT Best Monitors Asus ROG Azoth Review How to delete a page in Word in 3 easy steps RTX 4080 vs RTX 4070 Ti Best Mac Apps AMD vs Intel Recall an Email in Outlook Home Computing Features How Ada Lovelace became a feminist icon and a computer pioneer By Luke Dormehl Close Whether it’s an app, a software feature, or an interface element, programmers possess the magical ability to create something new out of virtually nothing. Just give them the hardware and a coding language, and they can spin up a program.
More than a big calculating machine Lovelace’s contributions to computing But what if there was no other software to learn from, and computer hardware didn’t yet exist? Welcome to the world of Ada Lovelace , the 19th-century English writer and mathematician most famous for being popularly described as the world’s first computer programmer — and all approximately one full century before the creation of the first programmable, electronic, general-purpose digital computers.
Donaldson Collections/Getty Images Lovelace only lived to the age of 36, but did enough during her short life to more than cement her legacy in the history of computing. (In Steve Jobs biographer Walter Isaacson’s book The Innovators , she is the title of chapter one: ground zero of the tech revolution.) How Hedy Lamarr built the foundations of Wi-Fi 80 years ago Long before Gates or Jobs, 6 women programmed the first digital computer Working with the English polymath Charles Babbage on his proposed mechanical general-purpose computer, the Analytical Engine, Lovelace recognized its potential for more than just calculation. This conceptual leap, seeing the manipulation of digits as being not simply the key to faster math, underpins most of what has followed in the world of computation.
More than a big calculating machine “To Babbage, the Engine was little more than a big calculating machine,” Christopher Hollings , Departmental Lecturer in Mathematics and its History at the Mathematical Institute of the University of Oxford, and co-author of Ada Lovelace: The Making of a Computer Scientist , told Digital Trends. “But Lovelace seems to have recognized that its programmable nature might mean that it would be capable of much more, that it might be able to do creative mathematics, or even compose original music. The fact that she was speculating about the capabilities of a machine that never existed, in combination with the fact that her comments tally with what we now know of computing, is what has given her writings modern interest.” Charles Babbage’s Analytical Engine, 1871. This was the first fully-automatic calculating machine.
SSPL/Getty Images Hollings said that there is a popular myth that Ada Lovelace was pushed into studying math by her mother to divert her from any “dangerous poetical tendencies” that she might have inherited from her absentee father, the Romantic poet Lord Byron.
 (Who, like his daughter, tragically died at the age of 36.) However, he noted, the truth is likely to be “much more prosaic — and interesting” than that.
“Lady Byron had, unusually for a woman at that time, been educated in mathematics in her youth, had enjoyed it, and wanted to pass that on to her own daughter,” Hollings explained. “And I think the desire to study mathematics is the strongest influence on what Lovelace did in computing. From the mid-1830s, she was determined to learn higher mathematics and she put in years of work in order to do so, and this led directly into her collaboration with Babbage.” Lovelace’s contributions to computing Lovelace’s insights into computing included hypothesizing about the concept of a computer able to be programmed and reprogrammed to perform limitless activities; seeing the potential for storing, manipulating, processing, and acting upon anything — from words to music — that could be expressed in symbols; describing one of the first step-by-step computer algorithms, and — finally — posing the question of whether a machine can ever truly think (she believed not). As such, while her work concerned hardware that never appeared during her lifetime, she nonetheless laid crucial foundational steps.
Lovelace served as a first in another important way: One of the first tragic stories in the history of computing. Beyond the “notes” (some 19,136 words in total) she wrote in connection to Babbage’s Analytical Engine, she never published another scientific paper. As noted, she also died young, of uterine cancer, after several turbulent years, including a toxic relationship and problems with opiates. These have shaped several of the previous popular tellings of her story — although this is now changing.
Former U.K. Prime Minister Tony Blair stands in front of the painting, Augusta Ada Byron the Countess of Lovelace, by Margaret Carpenter during a press conference.
Image used with permission by copyright holder “Much of the interest in the past has been more to do with who her father was, and the romantic idea of an unconventional aristocrat,” Hollings said. “Lurid tales of adultery, gambling, and drug addiction have also been thrown into the mix, probably in a way that they would not have been — certainly not with the same emphasis — if the discussion were about a man.” Nonetheless, today Lovelace is widely viewed as both a feminist icon and a computing pioneer. She is frequently referenced in history books, has multiple biographies dedicated to exploring her life, and is namechecked in various places — whether that’s the naming of Ada, a programming language developed by the U.S. Defense Department, or of internal cryptocurrency used by the Cardano public blockchain.
 In all, she’s one of the most famous names in her field and, while her untimely death means there will continue to be debate around what she did or didn’t contribute, Ada Lovelace has more than cemented her place in history.
And with people continuing to probe questions like whether or not a machine could ever achieve sentience , don’t expect that to change any time soon.
Editors' Recommendations The UX Pioneer: Louisa Heinrich’s quest to humanize tech Many pioneers in computing were women of color. Here are 5 you should recognize Features Women With Byte Computing Printers are complicated machines featuring a mix of plastics, metals, electronics, and components, some of which are potentially flagged as hazardous waste. In 2023, it's more important than ever to be kind to the planet, and there are several environmentally safe ways to dispose of a printer.
Even the best printers in the world can reach the end of their life after several years if ink or toner is no longer available. A well-loved printer can suffer from accumulated wear and tear or damage from a catastrophic power surge that's too expensive to repair.
Computing It's Black Friday, which means it is time to give expensive tech products and fun, but expensive, toys a second look. The right Black Friday deals are there to take these categories of products down in price. Where these categories of expensive tech and cool toys collide is the Meta Quest 2, a VR headset, and sure enough, it has a good sale going on over at Amazon right now. Normally $300, its price has dropped by $51 down to just $249, one of the best VR headset Black Friday deals we've seen. The really good news? This deal is here now, so you don't have to wait to buy it like you will with the rest of your post Thanksgiving shopping. In fact, if you tap the button below and buy now, and with a little shipping luck, you might have it by Thanksgiving to play with your family.
Why you should buy the Meta Quest 2 The Meta Quest 2, which dominated Steam last year, is a VR headset that gives a full 360 field of view, allows you to experience 3D positional audio, and has over 500 compatible titles between gaming, fitness, and other experiences. If you're a Twitch viewer, you may recognize it from streamers playing Meta Quest 2 games like Beat Saber or the somewhat ironically humorous Among Us VR. It refreshes at 120Hz and gives each eye a view of 1832 x 1920p.
Computing The G-series of gaming laptops from Dell represent a balance between performance and affordability. While it is positioned below the Alienware gaming laptop lineup, it manages to incorporate some of the standout features from its more expensive counterpart. It takes inspiration from its pricier cousin in terms of design and build quality, and also offers commendable thermal and graphics performance.
The company officially unveiled the 2023 G-series back in January at CES, and if you have decided to purchase a new Dell gaming laptop, then we recommend going for the latest G16 7630.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
