Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending in Computing: Best Dell Laptops ChatGPT Best Monitors Asus ROG Azoth Review How to delete a page in Word in 3 easy steps RTX 4080 vs RTX 4070 Ti Best Mac Apps AMD vs Intel Recall an Email in Outlook Home Computing Features The UX Pioneer: Louisa Heinrich’s quest to humanize tech By Meira Gebel Close There are a few things some startup founders don’t understand about what Louisa Heinrich does. And she’s not afraid to tell them. Hell, that’s how she kick-started her decades-long career in tech.
Pioneering UX Predicting the unpredictable Prior to the dot-com crash, and even after, the roles Heinrich held at companies came with perplexing titles like “Director of Experience Architecture” and “Head of Interaction Design” — often a jumble of words meant to say she was in charge of how users interacted with technological products. Today, those positions would be called “user experience design” or UX for short.
In the early aughts, Heinrich found herself at constant odds with chief executives, who often only focused on the bottom line, either because they didn’t understand what she did or why she was needed.
Beyond rainbows: 5 tech companies that did more for Pride in 2022 How Ada Lovelace became a feminist icon and a computer pioneer Many pioneers in computing were women of color. Here are 5 you should recognize “I have had so many conversations with people who want to do a thing or make a thing, but don’t have a good reason why,” she said. “And I think that continues to be the driving force in technology for different reasons now than then, but for one reason that is exactly the same as then, and that’s money.” Trevor Good The way Silicon Valley has worked for the last few decades, and still works right now, is fairly straightforward: A founder, or a group of founders, have an idea. They raise money from venture capitalists or bootstrap the cash themselves. They hire a team to build their idea in hopes of either changing the world, or at the very least, paying their investors back. According to Heinrich, the ones who make it have one of two things: Pure luck or human centric products.
And since luck is unpredictable, Heinrich fought to make founders think about how folks use the tech they build as a metric of success, not just the hardware or software itself.
“The reason why we called it information architecture back then was because we talked about building interactive products like we were building a house,” she said. “There has to be ways that make sense for people to go through. You can’t have a room without an exit. Once we started thinking about digital properties as physical spaces, it opened up our thinking and gave us better ways of constructing them.” Pioneering UX Heinrich has led design for digital consumer projects at Fortune 500 companies that have become staples of the internet as we know it. If you’ve ever customized a car on an automaker’s website, you have Heinrich to thank. Do you have your bank’s app on your smartphone ? Heinrich led design for the earliest form of digital banking. She was also an executive director at the BBC when the iPlayer was released — ushering in the first iteration of the U.K.’s largest broadcaster’s searchable index of over 4 million pages of content.
In 2013 she started Superhuman , which consults governments and businesses on how to “productively embed human-centered thinking” because she saw a gap between what clients were asking of agencies and what they actually needed.
“Management consultancies are really good at marketing, they can tell you how big the market is for a hypothetical product in terms of dollars and cents,” Heinrich said. “What they can’t necessarily tell you is what the market is like in terms of what humans need and are ready for and are willing to engage with productively.” Predicting the unpredictable Heinrich spends a lot of time thinking, and talking , about the future of technology — its inevitable regulation , the unreal expectations we have for it , and the god-ification of founders.
Yet, one thesis she’s discovered time and time again is that creators can have the best intentions for how their product will be used. But once people get a hold of them, there’s no telling what they’ll do. That’s where Superhuman comes in, and also why she’s an advocate for framework-based regulation of tech.
Image used with permission by copyright holder “We will hack together what we want out of whatever you give us, that’s how humans work,” Heinrich said. “So the idea that the government can pass laws that are somehow going to be effective against this constantly changing landscape of humans interacting with technology is just insane.” Governments are designed to move slowly, Heinrich added, because if they moved as quickly as technology, we’d all live in a state of “perpetual chaos” and if tech moved as slow as governments, well … innovation would come to a screeching halt.
For successful government regulation of tech to happen, she believes, lawmakers and stakeholders need to ask themselves a few questions when crafting legislation: What are adverse or unintended consequences of different types of technology? What are some of the signals we can identify of those consequences happening? How can we build frameworks to guide behaviors in positive directions? It’s safe to say the predictability of those conversations happening is slim, but not slim to none — even though the technology industry and the government are two institutions bound to misunderstand each other (if you’ve ever used the IRS website or heard Mark Zuckerberg say “ Move fast and break things ,” you get it).
Robbie Lawrence Heinrich, on the other hand, is optimistic. People are thinking much more critically about tech now than when she got her start.
“I think in some circles. that’s starting to happen,” she said. “I think a lot of the chaos in the political world over the last six years has caused more people to question what the fuck is happening with technology and what are some of the blind alleys it might be leading us down.” And the more widespread everyday technology becomes in the lives of people across the world, the more founders and creators are forced to reckon with the human impact of their products. Take for example, the researchers and critics who protested the use of routinely biased, harmful artificial intelligence during the Black Lives Matter movement and the public outcry over the rapid spread of misinformation, which led to a crackdown across social media platforms.
That’s why Heinrich is happy to see UX roles embedded at the start of businesses cropping up today, rather than as a reactive measure to backlash — “Not only ‘How do we make the thing that you’ve decided to make,’ but ‘What is the thing that you should be making?’” “Let’s face it, it’s the people who pay for the product or not, it’s the people who generate the revenue,” she added. “So when the people start making better decisions for themselves, that’s when we can really see some positive change.” Editors' Recommendations Big Tech’s superficial support is undermining the right-to-repair movement How Hedy Lamarr built the foundations of Wi-Fi 80 years ago Razer’s high-tech face mask filters air and amplifies your voice, Bane-style Features Tech for Change The Food Fight Women With Byte Computing Printers are complicated machines featuring a mix of plastics, metals, electronics, and components, some of which are potentially flagged as hazardous waste. In 2023, it's more important than ever to be kind to the planet, and there are several environmentally safe ways to dispose of a printer.
Even the best printers in the world can reach the end of their life after several years if ink or toner is no longer available. A well-loved printer can suffer from accumulated wear and tear or damage from a catastrophic power surge that's too expensive to repair.
Computing It's Black Friday, which means it is time to give expensive tech products and fun, but expensive, toys a second look. The right Black Friday deals are there to take these categories of products down in price. Where these categories of expensive tech and cool toys collide is the Meta Quest 2, a VR headset, and sure enough, it has a good sale going on over at Amazon right now. Normally $300, its price has dropped by $51 down to just $249, one of the best VR headset Black Friday deals we've seen. The really good news? This deal is here now, so you don't have to wait to buy it like you will with the rest of your post Thanksgiving shopping. In fact, if you tap the button below and buy now, and with a little shipping luck, you might have it by Thanksgiving to play with your family.
Why you should buy the Meta Quest 2 The Meta Quest 2, which dominated Steam last year, is a VR headset that gives a full 360 field of view, allows you to experience 3D positional audio, and has over 500 compatible titles between gaming, fitness, and other experiences. If you're a Twitch viewer, you may recognize it from streamers playing Meta Quest 2 games like Beat Saber or the somewhat ironically humorous Among Us VR. It refreshes at 120Hz and gives each eye a view of 1832 x 1920p.
Computing The G-series of gaming laptops from Dell represent a balance between performance and affordability. While it is positioned below the Alienware gaming laptop lineup, it manages to incorporate some of the standout features from its more expensive counterpart. It takes inspiration from its pricier cousin in terms of design and build quality, and also offers commendable thermal and graphics performance.
The company officially unveiled the 2023 G-series back in January at CES, and if you have decided to purchase a new Dell gaming laptop, then we recommend going for the latest G16 7630.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
