Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Apple Watch Series 8 vs Apple Watch Series 7 Best Apple Watch Faces Apple Watch SE 2 vs Apple Watch SE Apple Watch Series 8 vs Apple Watch Ultra Track Sleep with an Apple Watch Home Mobile Deals Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Best Black Friday smartwatch deals: Apple, Samsung, Garmin, and more By Jennifer Allen Close Digital Trends If you’ve been waiting to grab a smartwatch for yourself or a family member, Black Friday deals have presented the perfect opportunity. With big savings out there on some of the best smartwatches , you can get the watch you want while still saving plenty of cash in the meantime. With many options out there, we’ve picked out the very best Black Friday smartwatch deals. There are some great brands around including those from Apple, Fitbit, Garmin, and also Samsung Galaxy Watches too. We’ve highlighted them all so let’s get straight into what’s available.
Best Fitbit Black Friday deals Best Apple Watch Black Friday deals Best Garmin Watch Black Friday deals Best Samsung Galaxy Watch Black Friday deals Best Fitbit Black Friday deals Joe Maring / Digital Trends For many people, Fitbit is the name to home in on when it comes to smartwatches and fitness trackers. Responsible for some of the best fitness trackers , Fitbit develops devices like the Fitbit Sense 2 which are more like conventional smartwatches, as well as pseudo smartwatches/fitness trackers like the Fitbit Charge 6.
 The Fitbit ecosystem is easy to get involved in providing a simple to use interface and all the key information you could need like steps taken, calories burned, and how many flights of stairs you’ve climbed. Generally more affordable than full smartwatches, they’re a great introduction to the smart wearable world, and Fitbit Black Friday deals have brought the price down even more.
Fitbit Ace 3 — Fitbit Inspire 2 — Fitbit Charge 6 — Fitbit Versa 4 — Fitbit Sense 2 — Best Apple Watch Black Friday deals Andy Boxall / Digital Trends The Apple Watch is the perfect smartwatch for iPhone owners. While it doesn’t play so nicely with Android, it’s the ideal accompaniment if you already own an iPhone and are invested in the Apple ecosystem. The Apple Watch Series 9 is the latest smartwatch and the best recommendation for most people. It offers plenty of key sensors like an ECG function, blood oxygen monitoring, and retrospective temperature and ovulation tracking. It’s a great device to have on your wrist throughout a regular day, but if you want something more adventure focused, consider the Apple Watch Ultra 2.
 Good Black Friday Apple Watch deals for the Ultra are harder to find but it’s a robust watch designed for hiking, diving, and general exploration of the world. Don’t overlook the Apple Watch SE range either if you’re on a budget but still want the benefits of an Apple Watch. It can also be wise to aim for the Series 8 — the slightly older revision — that doesn’t scrimp too much on features but commands a lower price during the sales.
Apple Watch SE 2023 — Apple Watch Series 8 GPS 41mm — Apple Watch Series 9 GPS 41mm — Apple Watch Series 9 GPS 45mm — Apple Watch Series 8 GPS + Cellular 41mm — Apple Watch Series 8 GPS + Cellular 45mm — Apple Watch Ultra 2 (49mm, GPS + Cellular) — Save on everything from laptops and tablets, to coffee makers and air purifiers, and a whole host of Apple tech like iPad, Apple Watch and even the latest M3 MacBooks, as well as smart home essentials like the Amazon Echo and smart bulbs.
Best Garmin Watch Black Friday deals Mark Jansen / Digital Trends The best Garmin watches are well suited for sporty people. Popular with a variety of different outdoor sports enthusiasts, Garmin watches are great for navigation as well as more accurate tracking than the competition. Some models can be very expensive because they offer a ton of battery life and a rugged build, while others are more in line with Fitbits while still offering better functionality for anyone training for a marathon or other sporting event. Garmin training plans are highly regarded and a strong reason to snap one up. Here are some of the best Garmin Watch Black Friday deals available early. Many of these come from Walmart and Amazon Black Friday deals , so start there for Garmin Watch discounts.
Garmin Forerunner 245 — Garmin Instinct 2 — Garmin Forerunner 255 — Garmin Venu 2S — Garmin Instinct 2X Solar — Garmin Fenix 7X Solar — Best Samsung Galaxy Watch Black Friday deals Joe Maring / Digital Trends If you own a Samsung phone, you’re going to love what the Samsung Galaxy Watch range has to offer. Even if you just have a regular Android phone, the watches are still some of the best smartwatches for Android around. The best Samsung Galaxy Watches are varied in terms of price with the likes of the Samsung Galaxy Watch 4 proving far more affordable than the latest Samsung Galaxy Watch 6 while still offering some great functionality for adventurers or those who want a cool watch on their wrist all day long. Look out for the Pro range if you’re keen to spend your free time exploring off the beaten path.
Samsung Galaxy Watch 4 Classic — Samsung Galaxy Watch 4 Aluminum — Samsung Galaxy Watch 4 Classic Stainless Steel — Samsung Galaxy Watch 6 — Samsung Galaxy Watch 5 Pro — Editors' Recommendations Best iPad Black Friday deals: iPad Mini, iPad Air, iPad Pro, and more 75 best Amazon Black Friday deals on laptops, TVs, Apple, and more Walmart Black Friday deals: The best offers you can shop now Best Amazon Fire tablet Black Friday deals: Get a tablet for $40 Google Pixel Black Friday deals: Pixel 8, Pixel Watch, Pixel Buds and more Deals Apple Apple Watch Fitbit Samsung Wearables Mobile If you were hoping that the recently released Apple Watch Ultra 2 will appear with a discount in this year's Black Friday deals, you're in luck because the smartwatch's 49mm, GPS + Cellular model is currently $60 off from Amazon. From $799, the wearable device is down to $739 -- it's still not cheap, but it's rare to enjoy savings when buying an Apple product that's just a couple of months old. There's no telling how long the offer will remain online though, so before it gets taken down, push through with your purchase.
Why you should buy the Apple Watch Ultra 2 We tagged the Apple Watch Ultra 2 as the best premium smartwatch for the iPhone in our list of the best smartwatches, and at first glance, it's obvious why. The 49mm titanium case and Always-On OLED touchscreen will catch anybody's attention because of their size and brightness, while the wearable device itself is very fast and smooth because it's powered by Apple's new S9 chipset. The Apple Watch Ultra 2 can last up to 36 hours on a single charge that may be extended to up to 72 hours in Low Power Mode, and it offers a comprehensive suite of health-related and fitness features. It also comes with the customizable Action button for a more convenient way of accessing your apps.
Mobile It's no tall tale to say that the best Black Friday deals for the year are probably already here. Many retailers are getting in on the action with some great discounts. Now's the time to shop if there's something, heck, anything you're looking for. Like mobile or prepaid SIM deals, for example, as service providers all over are dropping their prices. If that's what you want to shop, keep reading, because we've gathered up all of the best prepaid SIM Black Friday deals in one place, right here.
Our favorite prepaid SIM Black Friday deal One of the best prepaid SIM Black Friday deals is from Boost Mobile. Right now, at Best Buy, you can get access to the three months and 5GB of data plan for just $15, normally $45, which saves you an incredible $30. Bear in mind, this is a pre-loaded SIM kit, which means you'll need to supply your own compatible phone or get one if you don't have one already.
Web Black Friday is a great time to splurge on expensive purchases you've been holding out on. TVs, appliances and phones are some of the most popular purchases during the shopping event. Samsung is a big player in all of these areas, and Samsung products are not known for being cheap. Thankfully some retailers have already started early Black Friday deals, and there are some great discounts available on Samsung products. We've collected the best Samsung deals we can find on TVs, tablets, phones, monitors, soundbars and appliances.
Samsung TV Black Friday deals Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
