Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending in Computing: Best Dell Laptops ChatGPT Best Monitors Asus ROG Azoth Review How to delete a page in Word in 3 easy steps RTX 4080 vs RTX 4070 Ti Best Mac Apps AMD vs Intel Recall an Email in Outlook Home Emerging Tech News Abigail Seldin talks College Abacus and being a woman in tech By Lulu Chang Close Image used with permission by copyright holder When building our arsenal to face some of our country’s (and the world’s) most pressing problems, education stands as the most powerful weapon at our disposal. While the importance of access to information and the dissemination of knowledge as a whole has been widely recognized as a necessity, creating the infrastructure needed to actually make good upon these goals is often lacking. This seems particularly true when considering women in technology, whose lacking presence in the industry is often blamed upon a late introduction to the field or a lack of resources early on. So to address some of these problems, Abigail Seldin and her team of power women at Innovation Lab who are working to make college more affordable through the power of consumer tech.
At the forefront of their efforts is College Abacus , a free online tool made possible by the nonprofit education entity ECMC. By giving prospective college students and their families deeper insights into the true cost of institutions, Seldin told me via email that she feels her team has created “the Kayak.com of college financial aid.” The tool calculates its results based off the net prices of over 5,100 colleges across the U.S., allowing rising college freshmen to “calculate and compare their individualized financial aid options across schools all in one place, all at one time.” More impressive still, Seldin’s tool is the only one “to access the net price calculators of schools directly and is one of only a few tools to integrate data from the White House’s College Scorecard initiative released this fall.” Seldin recognized the need for such a resource after speaking with her mother-in-law, who serves a university president and has thus seen firsthand the “incredible stress and anxiety” families of first-year students face, especially when financial aid is a serious consideration. Today, Americans collective owe over $1.3 trillion in student loan debt and college tuition is around 12 times higher than it was a single generation ago, Seldin points out, creating an even more pronounced need for a platform like College Abacus.
The UX Pioneer: Louisa Heinrich’s quest to humanize tech Meet Gen Z’s fierce female founders aiming to radically reshape the tech world “Higher education has always been a ladder to economic opportunity in America, and that’s especially true today,” Seldin told me. “Though there is a lot of chatter about the value of a college education, we know that the majority of American employers now require a college degree.” And although she notes that your major doesn’t have to translate directly to your career path, she adds, “… you do need to be able to understand the world around you and think both creatively and critically.” “Women in particular can use credentials to break down preconceptions around competence that can prevent them from advancing professionally,” she continued. “Even in our digital age, these biases continue to manifest and hold many women back, and a strong track record that includes education serves as both an important “offense” to help open doors and a critical “defense” to keep them from closing.” As a female entrepreneur, Seldin has often come across these biases, despite noting that both the “education and access communities are typically more gender-balanced.” Recalling her frustrations around traditional gender roles within her professional career, Seldin said, “At times, some have questioned the substantiveness of my role in the company compared to that of my husband — and College Abacus co-founder — even after I began leading College Abacus full-time and he kept his day job.” But considering the incredible women with which Seldin is surrounded on a daily basis, she says that she’s “both hopeful and optimistic that these dynamics will continue to equilibrate over time.” Surrounding herself with a diverse crowd, however, is a conscious decision on Seldin’s part. Noting that it’s “critical for all employers to promote diversity in their staff,” the entrepreneur believes, “Not only does it make for a better workplace culture and often a better product, it’s a signal to your users that you care about and understand their own diverse needs and perspectives.” Ultimately, catering to a homogenous user group is simply an unstrategic decision, Seldin says. “I think there’s a growing acknowledgement that successful companies employ people who are similar to their target users.” Particularly as it pertains to College Abacus, the co-founder points out that having diverse backgrounds and perspectives around the table have been instrumental in understanding the issue at hand. Indeed, without her multifaceted team, many of the innovative solutions College Abacus has pushed forward may not have been possible.
So for the young women looking to create meaningful startups of their own, what advice does Seldin have to offer? “First,” she says, “identify a problem that no one is addressing effectively and come up with a way to solve it.” Second, “define what success means to you. Success isn’t necessarily about attaining a $1 billion valuation; it could mean achieving a stable business, completing a quick exit, generating strong returns for your investors or delivering a consistent and quality product to your users.” And last but not least, Seldin says, be sure to stress test a new idea. Imperative to a young company’s success, she says, is understanding “the potential vulnerabilities in their plans while they still have the time and available resources to address them.” So young ladies, get yourself to college with College Abacus, and then follow Abigail Seldin’s road all the way to the top.
Editors' Recommendations The most influential women in tech history The legacy of Sally Ride: America’s first woman in space Serena Williams to address women in tech at 2020 Grace Hopper Celebration Computing News Web Emerging Tech Tech News Women With Byte Emerging Tech Who’s your favorite baseball pitcher? Shane McClanahan? Sandy Alcantara? Justin Verlander? Whoever you said, two of the top sports-tech companies in the U.S. -- Rapsodo and Trajekt Sports -- have teamed up to build a robot version of them, and the results are reportedly uncannily accurate.
Okay, so we’re not talking about walking-talking-pitching standalone robots, as great a sci-fi-tinged MLB ad as that would be. However, Rapsodo and Trajekt have combined their considerable powers to throw a slew of different technologies at the problem of building a machine that's able to accurately simulate the pitching style of whichever player you want to practice batting against -- and they may just have pulled it off, too.
Outdoors Affordable and efficient portable power is a necessity these days, keeping our electronic devices operational while on the go. But there are literally dozens of options to choose from, making it abundantly difficult to decide which mobile charging solution is best for you. We've sorted through countless portable power options and came up with six of the best portable power stations to keep your smartphones, tablets, laptops, and other gadgets functioning while living off the grid.
The best overall: Jackery Explorer 1000 Jackery has been a mainstay in the portable power market for several years, and today, the company continues to set the standard. With three AC outlets, two USB-A, and two USB-C plugs, you'll have plenty of options for keeping your gadgets charged.
Emerging Tech This content was produced in partnership with HD Hyundai.
Autonomous vehicle navigation technology is certainly nothing new and has been in the works for the better part of a decade at this point. But one of the most common forms we see and hear about is the type used to control steering in road-based vehicles. That's not the only place where technology can make a huge difference. Autonomous driving systems can offer incredible benefits to boats and marine vehicles, too, which is precisely why HD Hyundai has unveiled its Avikus AI technology -- for marine and watercraft vehicles.
More recently, HD Hyundai participated in the Fort Lauderdale International Boat Show, to demo its NeuBoat level 2 autonomous navigation system for recreational boats. The name mashes together the words "neuron" and "boat" and is quite fitting since the Avikus' A.I. navigation tech is a core component of the solution, it will handle self-recognition, real-time decisions, and controls when on the water. Of course, there are a lot of things happening behind the scenes with HD Hyundai's autonomous navigation solution, which we'll dive into below -- HD Hyundai will also be introducing more about the tech at CES 2023.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
