Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Emerging Tech Features From the Arctic to Antarctica, Erika Bergman pilots submarines to the seafloor By Jenny McGrath Close Imagine if, before you could learn to drive, you first had to be able to take a car apart and completely reassemble it. That’s what Erika Bergman had to do with a submersible craft before she could pilot one.
In the sub Where are my ladies at? “Driving it is really pretty straightforward,” she told Digital Trends. “It just takes lots and lots of practice.” It’s not like driving a car, where the surface stays while the vehicle moves. “The road is moving around you, in up and down and forward and reverse,” adds Bergman.
She’s been piloting submersible vehicles for a decade. As a National Geographic Explorer, Bergman has livestreamed from subs into classrooms. She’s piloted researchers, filmmakers, and tourists all over the world. “As a submarine pilot, I’m really just the bus driver,” she says.
In the sub To get a mini-sub into the Great Blue Hole in Belize requires hitching a ride with a much bigger boat. Ship time can cost $15,000 a day — “without breaking a sweat,” said Bergman — so researchers and camera crews will often look for sponsors. Sometimes that means one seat in her remotely operated vehicle (ROV) goes to a philanthropist. “They want to see what their money goes to,” she said. ‘They don’t want to just write a check anymore.” Erika Bergman/Facebook If you want to ride with Bergman, in addition to hiring her, you’ll have to go through some safety training. “We do, usually, what’s called mission-specialist training,” she said, adding that it’s more interactive than what happens on an airplane. “Instead of just watching the flight attendant put on the life jacket, you have to put on your own life jacket,” she said.
You also have to learn the controls, in case the pilot is indisposed and you need to get back to the surface. In general, though, she said mini-submarines are very safe, and there are lots of fallback mechanisms for getting the ROV above water again. The biggest threat is becoming entangled in a giant, wayward fishing net. In the worst case, the vehicle has life support for three days, so someone can come down and rescue you. It would be a very unpleasant three days, though. There is no bathroom or kitchen.
The biggest threat is becoming entangled in a giant, wayward fishing net.
When Bergman isn’t piloting researchers or Richard Branson, she’s running her business, Global Engineering & Exploration Counselors ( GEECs ). “Our biggest program is called Girls Underwater Robot Camp,” she said. Using an OpenROV kit, the girls build a submersible. “We teach them engineering, we teach them a little bit of design,” said Bergman. They learn everything from soldering to filmmaking as they troubleshoot the robot and document their experiences.
Where are my ladies at? Bergman said it started accidentally. When she was building the Phantom ROV in 2013, she put a call out on the public radio station in Port Angeles, Washington, asking for girls to help her assemble it. “All these girls showed up, and that was the first girl underwater robot camp,” she said. Bergman took the Phantom with her to the Arctic. Since then, she’s worked with about 500 girls all over the world. Her next programs will be in Kenya and Singapore.
Erika Bergman/Facebook Since the early days of the camp, the first participants have entered college, with many choosing to enter engineering programs. That’s all according to plan, Bergman half-jokes. She’s used to being the only woman on her expeditions. “I just kind of had this sense of like, where are my ladies at, you know?” she said.
Soon, she’ll have a talent pool of young women she helped train who will become her colleagues and employees. She’d love to expand the program, as well. “I want to see what the future looks like with all these female marine-robotics and submarine pilot chicks in the world,” she said.
For her next big adventure, Bergman will be going the deepest she’s ever gone: 7,000 feet. She’ll be piloting the Pieces VI, a 1970s-era sub that’s been completely refurbished.
 She’s most excited to see yeti crabs. The colorless crustaceans have hair on their undersides that sway with the currents, “like a weird, Antarctic rave of yeti crabs,” Bergman said.
She compares going to the seafloor to visiting a new city for the first time and gazing up at the architecture. You might imagine a person in each window of a skyscraper. The looming rock formations are even denser with life. “There’s just billions and billions and billions of living organisms all over the seafloor,” she said. “I think the scale of it is what I try and help people see.” Editors' Recommendations How pioneering pilot Jackie Cochran helped and hurt the Women in Space Program Features Emerging Tech Features Women With Byte Emerging Tech Who’s your favorite baseball pitcher? Shane McClanahan? Sandy Alcantara? Justin Verlander? Whoever you said, two of the top sports-tech companies in the U.S. -- Rapsodo and Trajekt Sports -- have teamed up to build a robot version of them, and the results are reportedly uncannily accurate.
Okay, so we’re not talking about walking-talking-pitching standalone robots, as great a sci-fi-tinged MLB ad as that would be. However, Rapsodo and Trajekt have combined their considerable powers to throw a slew of different technologies at the problem of building a machine that's able to accurately simulate the pitching style of whichever player you want to practice batting against -- and they may just have pulled it off, too.
Outdoors Affordable and efficient portable power is a necessity these days, keeping our electronic devices operational while on the go. But there are literally dozens of options to choose from, making it abundantly difficult to decide which mobile charging solution is best for you. We've sorted through countless portable power options and came up with six of the best portable power stations to keep your smartphones, tablets, laptops, and other gadgets functioning while living off the grid.
The best overall: Jackery Explorer 1000 Jackery has been a mainstay in the portable power market for several years, and today, the company continues to set the standard. With three AC outlets, two USB-A, and two USB-C plugs, you'll have plenty of options for keeping your gadgets charged.
Emerging Tech This content was produced in partnership with HD Hyundai.
Autonomous vehicle navigation technology is certainly nothing new and has been in the works for the better part of a decade at this point. But one of the most common forms we see and hear about is the type used to control steering in road-based vehicles. That's not the only place where technology can make a huge difference. Autonomous driving systems can offer incredible benefits to boats and marine vehicles, too, which is precisely why HD Hyundai has unveiled its Avikus AI technology -- for marine and watercraft vehicles.
More recently, HD Hyundai participated in the Fort Lauderdale International Boat Show, to demo its NeuBoat level 2 autonomous navigation system for recreational boats. The name mashes together the words "neuron" and "boat" and is quite fitting since the Avikus' A.I. navigation tech is a core component of the solution, it will handle self-recognition, real-time decisions, and controls when on the water. Of course, there are a lot of things happening behind the scenes with HD Hyundai's autonomous navigation solution, which we'll dive into below -- HD Hyundai will also be introducing more about the tech at CES 2023.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
