Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Emerging Tech Features 911 hotlines are outdated, so Ginny Katz is building something better By Will Nicol Close Image used with permission by copyright holder In the grip of an emergency, the first move for many Americans is to call 911. The emergency response system has been around for decades, but like many institutions, it has struggled to keep up with technology. Call centers are easily overwhelmed in big emergencies, they often can’t track the locations of people calling from cell phones, and they’re vulnerable to hacking. An egregious example of this came in 2017, when a hacker used a malicious link on Twitter to hijack thousands of phones, forcing them to call 911 repeatedly, flooding call centers with false alarms.
From a fire, a spark of inspiration Inclusive design Smart cities and the integrated future “I’ve been studying and working in disasters, diseases, and emergency management for over 10 years,” says Ginny Katz, founder and CEO of HazAdapt. “At the end of my master’s degree, I really began to dive into the tech because I thought we really need some better technology here, and it just seems like what’s on the market today is not cutting it.” HazAdapt is developing an app that aims to provide users critical information in emergencies, but also allow them to better communicate with public safety officials and each other.
From a fire, a spark of inspiration The idea of creating an emergency response app came after Katz had her own brush with danger.
Ginny Katz, founder of HazAdapt Image used with permission by copyright holder “There was actually an emergency here on campus. It was an older building, so it didn’t have automatic alarms, and didn’t even have sirens that would automatically happen or sprinklers,” she says. “So a fire started, and one thing led to another, evacuation didn’t happen. It became … not too late, but the fire department wasn’t called as efficiently as needed. And people were walking in and out of the building, myself included, without knowing it was burning. And so people got exposed to chemicals, and there’s nothing really out there that would have prevented that.” “So I was thinking to myself, I can walk near a Starbucks and my Facebook would say ‘Hey, do you want to write a review for Starbucks?’ but I don’t know where emergencies are based on my location. That’s a problem.” Smartphones are ubiquitous, and as Katz points out, companies like Facebook use them all the time to blast users with requests and updates (no, Google Maps , I’m not going to review restaurants for you, you’re a billion-dollar company and can hire someone to do it!), so it’s refreshing to see an app proposing to save your life rather than just trying to squeeze money or data out of you.
How does HazAdapt propose to do it? Inclusive design As Katz explains it, HazAdapt’s goal is to close “really deadly communication gaps that happen right now in the current 911 system and mass notification system.” Antiquated telephone lines can be one form of deadly gap, but there are others; even the emergency alerts that public safety officials send via text message are lacking.
“Those messages often simply warn you something is happening,” Katz says, “but they really don’t tell you what you can do to survive, to overcome, and that information is almost absolutely never personal, it’s just generalized for the public. And that’s a big concern because disasters don’t discriminate.” Everyone with a cell phone might get the same government text in an emergency, but not everybody has the same needs in those situations.
“For instance, someone who is wheelchair-using is going to need different evacuation instructions than someone who isn’t,” Katz says, “or someone who is visually impaired, they need that alert in a way that’s not text-based.” Android 10 emergency icon.
Julian Chokkattu/Digital Trends HazAdapt is shooting for inclusivity, which Katz calls a “vague term because there are so many different facets of a human.” Aside from the many forms of identity we might typically think about — gender, race, religion, political affiliation — a person can have any number of traits that might factor into an emergency. Do they have a physical impairment? Do they live alone? Have any kids? Do they live near any neighbors or hospitals? Can they drive or not? By tailoring an alert to a specific user’s needs, HazAdapt aims to make sure everyone gets the information they need in a crisis. It also wants to make it easy for users to send information as well.
“Normally, we all call 911 when there’s an emergency,” she says, “but 911 quickly becomes overwhelmed because we’re still relying on dated technology. So HazAdapt makes it much easier for us as civilians to send an alert to the appropriate authorities. Not only can you send an alert that’s specific to that hazard, but you can also send the relevant information about you.” A particular trait that HazAdapt is really keen to accommodate is problem-solving style.
“Someone who is very tech-savvy is going to use an app differently from someone who isn’t very tech-savvy,” Katz explains. “So when we’re designing inclusively, we need to make sure we’re designing a UI that caters to both of those needs.” In the quest for an app that suits all users, Katz says the team uses an “inclusive scrum” method of software development, adopting the persona of people who are not “technology savvy” and going through the process of using the interface and imagining if it would make sense for that hypothetical person.
Katz sees HazAdapt as a tool that can assist people who frequent “college campuses, museums, theme parks, megachurches, those kinds of unique areas that people come to constantly,” the types of places where tragedy breaks out unexpectedly and rapidly.
An obvious flaw that comes to mind is that apps rely on a network connection; depending on the emergency in question, nearby Wi-Fi networks might go down. In the event of an internet outage, the app can use Bluetooth to link people. Additionally, the app can download infographics to a phone based on the user’s location and physical needs, so in the event you don’t have a connection during an emergency, you’ll have something to work off of.
Smart cities and the integrated future HazAdapt’s attempt to channel interconnected tech for safety reflects a larger trend: The quest to build smart cities , cities where connections between devices — the “ internet of things ” — allow people to more efficiently manage resources and improve safety.
Katz is excited by the potential of smart cities, although curious about how they treat peoples’ data.
“What’s the security like? How are these systems balancing that need for integration with security? And that’s always a big concern for any developer, especially when you have so much heavy, granular data that you’re dealing with.” Smart cities are all the rage these days, but how likely is it that HazAdapt fits into the interconnected ecosystem of the future? The platform is still in development, with more testing over the coming months, with the aim of hitting the market in 2021. So far, emergency responders seem excited about HazAdapt’s platform.
“The main response that we keep hearing from emergency managers or the professionals that would use this is ‘Wow, we could have used this yesterday, and you guys are five years ahead of the market in thinking about this,’” Katz says.
Editors' Recommendations The world needs a drone traffic control system, so AirMap is building one Emerging Tech Features Smart Cities Women With Byte Emerging Tech Who’s your favorite baseball pitcher? Shane McClanahan? Sandy Alcantara? Justin Verlander? Whoever you said, two of the top sports-tech companies in the U.S. -- Rapsodo and Trajekt Sports -- have teamed up to build a robot version of them, and the results are reportedly uncannily accurate.
Okay, so we’re not talking about walking-talking-pitching standalone robots, as great a sci-fi-tinged MLB ad as that would be. However, Rapsodo and Trajekt have combined their considerable powers to throw a slew of different technologies at the problem of building a machine that's able to accurately simulate the pitching style of whichever player you want to practice batting against -- and they may just have pulled it off, too.
Outdoors Affordable and efficient portable power is a necessity these days, keeping our electronic devices operational while on the go. But there are literally dozens of options to choose from, making it abundantly difficult to decide which mobile charging solution is best for you. We've sorted through countless portable power options and came up with six of the best portable power stations to keep your smartphones, tablets, laptops, and other gadgets functioning while living off the grid.
The best overall: Jackery Explorer 1000 Jackery has been a mainstay in the portable power market for several years, and today, the company continues to set the standard. With three AC outlets, two USB-A, and two USB-C plugs, you'll have plenty of options for keeping your gadgets charged.
Emerging Tech This content was produced in partnership with HD Hyundai.
Autonomous vehicle navigation technology is certainly nothing new and has been in the works for the better part of a decade at this point. But one of the most common forms we see and hear about is the type used to control steering in road-based vehicles. That's not the only place where technology can make a huge difference. Autonomous driving systems can offer incredible benefits to boats and marine vehicles, too, which is precisely why HD Hyundai has unveiled its Avikus AI technology -- for marine and watercraft vehicles.
More recently, HD Hyundai participated in the Fort Lauderdale International Boat Show, to demo its NeuBoat level 2 autonomous navigation system for recreational boats. The name mashes together the words "neuron" and "boat" and is quite fitting since the Avikus' A.I. navigation tech is a core component of the solution, it will handle self-recognition, real-time decisions, and controls when on the water. Of course, there are a lot of things happening behind the scenes with HD Hyundai's autonomous navigation solution, which we'll dive into below -- HD Hyundai will also be introducing more about the tech at CES 2023.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
