Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending in Computing: Best Dell Laptops ChatGPT Best Monitors Asus ROG Azoth Review How to delete a page in Word in 3 easy steps RTX 4080 vs RTX 4070 Ti Best Mac Apps AMD vs Intel Recall an Email in Outlook Home Emerging Tech Features How Susan Kare gave Apple’s Mac its personality By Luke Dormehl Close Image used with permission by copyright holder The idea that one of the most influential women in the history of tech is best known for designing icons sounds, on the surface, a bit surprising. Sure, everyone enjoys a good bit of computer iconography, but… most influential? Like, for real? Making computers friendly for the masses A digital artist A world with (fewer) limitations Making a lasting contribution If you think this way, it’s understandable. Icons are such a ubiquitous part of today’s most popular devices — whether that’s personal computers or mobile devices — that it can be tough to imagine them working any other way. But it wasn’t always like this.
Icons give us a way of instantly understanding the tools we’re using. In the early days this frequently meant by way of a real-world analog. A trash can was where you got rid of things. A folder was where you stored files. A lasso could be used to grab (read: select) things. Today, our tools aren’t always describable in this way. However, icons still describe the experience of using them, often in an unthreatening manner.
A lot of this is thanks to the work of Susan Kare.
Making computers friendly for the masses An art major from Mount Holyoke College with a masters and doctorate from New York University, Kare has enjoyed an unlikely career in technology stretching back almost 40 years. But she remains perhaps best known for her work at Apple as the designer of the icons and bitmap typefaces on the original Mac.
 While the Mac was not the first computer to have a graphical user interface with icons, it was the first popular computer to do so.
The Mac was approachable at a time when most computers were still scrabbling around in the primordial soup of command-line interfaces. Much of that approachability and personality came from Kare. Thanks to her whimsical sensibilities, the first image a user would see when they turned on their Mac was a tiny portrait of a Mac with a smiling face to show that everything was working correctly. If there was a (rare) fault and the computer crashed, the user would see an image of a cartoon bomb, complete with fizzing fuse.
Image used with permission by copyright holder “I don’t believe that you need to be a member of the target audience in order to do a good job as a designer,” Kare told Digital Trends. “But in the case of the Macintosh — ‘the computer for the rest of us’ — I definitely was. It was easy to empathize with the mission [of] making computers accessible and appealing to a non-technical audience because I had zero technical background.” A digital artist Kare’s business card at Apple read “Macintosh Artist,” at a point in time when the idea that computers were a tool for creativity seemed, well, wrong. Although many people would not know her name compared to the likes of Steve Jobs (a huge fan of Kare’s work), Kare’s vision became the filter by which ordinary people took their first steps into using a computer.
“Because the computer was supposed to be ‘friendly’ I wanted to inject some friendliness, some fun, and some common-sense, easy-to-remember images,” she continued. “I thought a good test for a symbol was that you could remember it if someone told you once what it meant.” “I thought a good test for a symbol was that you could remember it if someone told you once what it meant.” Kare drew the inspiration for her icon mosaics from a number of places. She loaded her cubicle up with books such as Henry Dreyfus’ Symbol Sourcebook , which described offbeat pictorial languages such as hobo signals: the simple chalk-on-stone markings used to describe the kinds of people transients met as they moved from place to place. Elsewhere, she gleaned thoughts on “universal symbols” from sources as diverse as Haitian textures and old-fashioned needlework to the abstract faces of retro sci-fi robots. The results, to use an Apple phrase from years later, just worked.
“I had a liberal arts and studio art background,” said Kare. “I think that helped with thinking about metaphor and meaning, and figuring out how to arrange 16 x 16 or 32 x 32 black and white pixels to represent a concept. It was a bit like writing a Haiku, [with] many options within the constraints. The technical limitations of the time, a monochrome 640 x 480 pixel display, necessitated a visual simplicity that was in many ways beneficial. [There was simply] no room for extraneous detail.” A world with (fewer) limitations In the modern computing world, a lot of those limitations have been stripped away. Computers circa 2020 don’t have the same graphical limitations as computers in the early 1980s, when Kare started her career in this field.
“Over time, icon designers have been freed from low resolution and limited palettes, and sometimes this can manifest itself in the creation of complex imagery because it’s possible,” she said. “Or animation that doesn’t really enhance understanding. There’s a wonderful book, Understanding Comics by Scott McCloud, which includes many thoughtful comments relevant to icon design. McCloud, for example, points out that the simplest smiley face, with its lack of detail, is universal, because we can all see ourselves. In the same way, a chrome pen, rendered to show reflection, can be a nice illustration, but as an icon for writing it might exclude some users who don’t typically encounter pens like that. I like the idea of symbols that are easy to recognize at a glance because they contain just enough detail. I appreciate the never-ending search for good universal symbols; it’s a joy to see a great new metaphor.” “An icon’s meaning is at least as important as its appearance, and sometimes that takes more time and thought than is allotted.” While Kare, understandably, doesn’t approve of every new icon that comes out, her philosophy of computer iconography remains the gold standard years after she started work.
“Icons come and go and with luck the less effective ones fade away,” she said. “An icon’s meaning is at least as important as its appearance, and sometimes that takes more time and thought than is allotted.” Making a lasting contribution Today, Kare is 65-years-old. She works at Pinterest doing a variety of digital and analog design projects. She also helps run kareprints.com , which offers limited edition prints of her icons. Years after they were created as functional pictograms, Kare’s mosaics have become beloved artworks in and of themselves.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Apple frequently reinterprets them and prints them on shirts, and still repurposes the “hello” graphic Kare designed in 1982. Kare additionally crosses over into the real world with projects like a new Jacquard blanket with an icon pattern that’s coming out this spring. “And I’m always working to improve my surfing,” she said.
Susan Kare was not, by a long shot, the only brilliant creator to work on the original Macintosh. But she did play an indelible role in its development, and to computing ever since. In a field like high tech where gadgets are replaced, for reasons of technological advancement or just novelty-seeking, after only a few years, it’s the rare person who makes a contribution that lasts.
Kare, it seems, is that rare person.
Editors' Recommendations Google witness accidentally reveals how much Apple gets for Safari search Why Apple’s subtle MacBook Pro decision makes me so happy I saw the new Space Black MacBook Pro, and it’s stunning Everything announced at Apple’s ‘Scary Fast’ event: iMac, M3, and more The M3 iMac is here, but it’s missing its most requested change Computing Apple Emerging Tech Features Women With Byte Computing Apple announced the M3 series of chips today but has switched up the rollout in a significant way. In previous years, the company started with the base configuration of the chip series, whether that's the M1 or the M2. The initial releases would build the foundation of what these chips could do on entry-level devices like the MacBook Air or Mac mini.
Intel rolls out its chips in a similar way, starting its annual refresh of laptop chips with its entry-level stuff first.
Computing Apple’s “Scary Fast” event is just around the corner, and we already know Macs will be the focus. But a claim has just been made that Apple will dedicate much of the October 30 show to Mac gaming, which could be good news for anyone who enjoys playing games on Apple’s computers.
That’s the assertion made by MacRumors, and the news outlet puts forward several pieces of evidence to back up its ideas. In the end, it makes a lot of sense -- but there’s still no definitive proof.
Computing In an unexpected twist, Nvidia may soon make more than just some of the best graphics cards. Rumor has it that it's working on ARM-based processors for client PCs. It's not alone in this historic venture, either, because AMD is also said to be readying ARM CPUs.
According to a report from Reuters, both AMD and Nvidia are getting ready to launch ARM-based systems on a chip (SoCs) as early as 2025. The target market will be client PCs that run Windows, which has had a slow and troubled embrace of ARM architecture historically. After how successful such chips have been in Apple's own M1 and M2 silicon, though, it seems obvious that the transition to ARM will need to speed up in order for ARM-powered Windows laptops to truly compete.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
