Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Emerging Tech Features Women with Byte: Vivienne Ming’s plan to solve ‘messy human problems’ with A.I.
By Thor Benson Close Image used with permission by copyright holder Building A.I. is one thing. Actually putting it to use and leveraging it for the betterment of humanity is entirely another. Vivienne Ming does both.
Taking a stand A.I. as a force for good Original ideas As a theoretical neuroscientist and A.I. expert, Ming is the founder of Socos Lab, an incubator that works to find solutions to what she calls “messy human problems” — issues in fields like education, mental health, and other areas where problems don’t always have clear-cut solutions.
“Most of what we do is about solving some very grounded real-world problems — often with very little data,” Ming tells Digital Trends.
Wild new ‘brainsourcing’ technique trains A.I. directly with human brainwaves The company’s latest pursuit? Identifying when people are starting to show subtle signs of stress and anxiety. To do so, it’s developing A.I. that can analyze speech patterns, eye movements, and other biometric indicators to determine if a person is feeling stressed or anxious — even if they themselves aren’t aware of it. “We’re going to build a model of you and try to understand what the stressors are in your life and ways that you might be able to intervene,” Ming says.
What would such a system be used for? According to Ming, a stress-spotting A.I. program could be used by universities, businesses, and community health organizations to monitor the mental health of groups of people in those organizations. “You could see that some new policy at your company or some change at your university was driving stress — the kind of stress that predicts long-term health consequences,” she says.
However, Ming also acknowledges the potential for this tech to be used unethically, and underscores that she doesn’t want anybody using Socos technology as a tool for secretly or invasively monitoring people’s mental health. “I have a background in that space, and bad things happen when companies know what’s going on with individuals,” she explains.
Taking a stand Ming speaks from experience. Once upon a time, she served as the chief scientist at Gild, a company created with the goal of eliminating bias in the hiring process using artificial intelligence. Unfortunately, somewhere down the line, Ming reportedly discovered that the software was being used by companies in a way that would actually make bias worse. But rather than seeing this as problematic, clients were asking Gild for new tools that would further increase bias in the hiring process.
Ming left the company when she found that her opposition to creating such tools was a problem for other executives at the company. There are many ways A.I. that was perhaps created for magnanimous reasons can be abused, and Ming says anyone working in the field should be ready to stand up against that and, if necessary, leave a company if things start moving in that direction.
“You might say, ‘I would never allow someone to abuse this system,’ and then your startup is about to run out of money or, on the flip side, someone’s offering you a billion dollars,” Ming says. “I mean literally offering you a billion dollars to do it. Now it’s not so easy to say no. If you’re not willing to walk away from situations like that, you shouldn’t put yourself in those situations in the first place.” Obviously, an A.I. system that can determine how people are feeling could be abused if it ends up in the wrong hands. Imagine your employer or the government using your innermost feelings against you. Ming says she’s working hard to make sure her A.I. is being built in a way so that it can only be used to benefit people. She says powerful A.I. systems can become “authoritarian tech” when things go wrong.
“For me, the two biggest concerns are the intentional and unintentional abuse of these systems,” Ming says.
A.I. as a force for good Importantly, Ming isn’t just a believer in the virtues of artificial intelligence. She also makes a strong case for why fears about A.I are often overblown. Alarmists often warn that A.I. could potentially become hyperintelligent and take over the world in the not-too-distant future — but Ming says she’s not worried about that at all. In her eyes, the A.I. we have today doesn’t resemble anything close to the A.I. apocalypse scenario that’s bandied about in science fiction.
“We haven’t invented anything that could become so smart that it would begin to think like us, much less become a superintelligence,” Ming says. “This is a mediocre metaphor, but it’s like we’ve invented these astonishing savants that can play Go vastly better than the best human in the world, but they don’t actually understand anything about Go. It just knows that if there’s a Go board in front of it, do these things and it wins. That’s it.” Another common A.I. fear is that it’s going to take away jobs and render humanity obsolete in the workforce. Ming doesn’t buy this one either — at least not completely. While she does acknowledge that certain highly routine jobs will likely be automated in the future, she also points out that automation has huge potential to create new jobs. What remains to be seen is if people will be ready for those new jobs. Ming says she’s not confident many people are properly equipped for the next generation of jobs, and what we should focus on is using A.I. to help prepare them.
“How do you take highly creative people, that know how to do things, and then massively increase their productivity in the economy by just turning them loose from all of the constraints of the experience that existed before?” Ming asks. “A.I. will create lots of jobs. Our responsibility is how many people we make ready for those jobs. Right now, I would be shocked if it’s more than one or two percent of the labor force.” Original ideas So how do we do that? Education is part of it — though Ming thinks just getting a good education isn’t going to be enough when A.I. starts majorly influencing the world of work. She says we need to start teaching people how to utilize these new tools in creative and unique ways, rather than just teaching them how things function.
“The professional middle class is about to get blindsided. They were promised that if they got a good education, they’d have a job for the rest of their lives,” Ming says. “I’m telling you that if we can keep that promise 10 years from now, I would be stunned.” Learning to code is great, Ming says, but plenty of people know how to code. Furthermore, A.I. is writing code more and more. What’s going to set people apart in the future is not what they know how to do but what original ideas they bring to the table.
The future is helping people pinpoint what they can bring to the table.
Editors' Recommendations Scientists are using A.I. to create artificial human genetic code Artificial Intelligence Emerging Tech Features Women With Byte Emerging Tech Who’s your favorite baseball pitcher? Shane McClanahan? Sandy Alcantara? Justin Verlander? Whoever you said, two of the top sports-tech companies in the U.S. -- Rapsodo and Trajekt Sports -- have teamed up to build a robot version of them, and the results are reportedly uncannily accurate.
Okay, so we’re not talking about walking-talking-pitching standalone robots, as great a sci-fi-tinged MLB ad as that would be. However, Rapsodo and Trajekt have combined their considerable powers to throw a slew of different technologies at the problem of building a machine that's able to accurately simulate the pitching style of whichever player you want to practice batting against -- and they may just have pulled it off, too.
Outdoors Affordable and efficient portable power is a necessity these days, keeping our electronic devices operational while on the go. But there are literally dozens of options to choose from, making it abundantly difficult to decide which mobile charging solution is best for you. We've sorted through countless portable power options and came up with six of the best portable power stations to keep your smartphones, tablets, laptops, and other gadgets functioning while living off the grid.
The best overall: Jackery Explorer 1000 Jackery has been a mainstay in the portable power market for several years, and today, the company continues to set the standard. With three AC outlets, two USB-A, and two USB-C plugs, you'll have plenty of options for keeping your gadgets charged.
Emerging Tech This content was produced in partnership with HD Hyundai.
Autonomous vehicle navigation technology is certainly nothing new and has been in the works for the better part of a decade at this point. But one of the most common forms we see and hear about is the type used to control steering in road-based vehicles. That's not the only place where technology can make a huge difference. Autonomous driving systems can offer incredible benefits to boats and marine vehicles, too, which is precisely why HD Hyundai has unveiled its Avikus AI technology -- for marine and watercraft vehicles.
More recently, HD Hyundai participated in the Fort Lauderdale International Boat Show, to demo its NeuBoat level 2 autonomous navigation system for recreational boats. The name mashes together the words "neuron" and "boat" and is quite fitting since the Avikus' A.I. navigation tech is a core component of the solution, it will handle self-recognition, real-time decisions, and controls when on the water. Of course, there are a lot of things happening behind the scenes with HD Hyundai's autonomous navigation solution, which we'll dive into below -- HD Hyundai will also be introducing more about the tech at CES 2023.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
