Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Emerging Tech Features 10 female inventors who changed the world forever By Erika Rawes Close March is Women’s History Month, and to celebrate, we’re highlighting some of the brilliant and fascinating women who have made a huge impact on society and on everyday life. Beginning in 1978 as a local celebration week, the idea of celebrating women’s achievements grew and grew until it became a month-long National celebration.
 Now, we as a society are beginning to understand more and more how certain groups have not always had as smooth of a journey in obtaining equal treatment, especially in the workplace.
1. Hedy Lamarr, 1914-2000 2. Ada Lovelace, 1815-1852 3. Margaret A. Wilcox 4. Mary Anderson, 1866-1953 5. Gertrude Belle Elion, 1918-1999 6. Dr. Ann Tsukamoto, 1952-present 7. Letitia Geer, 1853-1935 8. Marie Curie, 1867-1934 9. Stephanie Kwolek, 1923-2014 10. Patricia Bath, 1942-2019 Today, seeing a female CEO or entrepreneur has become a bit more common, but it wasn’t always that way. If we go back to the middle of the 20th century, the labor force was predominantly male. In fact, the Bureau of Labor Statistics reports that less than 30% of the labor force was female in 1950. Even though 57.4% of women were in the workforce by 2019, these women still faced pay gaps and fewer leadership and advancement opportunities. According to a report by Leanin.org and McKinsey & Company , for every 100 men promoted to first-level manager in 2020, only 86 women were promoted. A quick look at the Fortune 500 list is also quite telling, showing just how male-dominated leadership really is.
The women on this list have risen above the inequality, creating products and services that have truly changed the world.
Meet Gen Z’s fierce female founders aiming to radically reshape the tech world 1. Hedy Lamarr, 1914-2000 Image used with permission by copyright holder The Mother of Wi-Fi Hedy Lemarr was well-known for her acting and striking beauty, but it wasn’t until years later that she got the credit she deserved for her landmark invention. Lemarr, along with another inventor named George Antheil, came up with a radio wave frequency hopping system to guide torpedos, allowing torpedos to find their target while also preventing interception. Although their patent expired decades ago, Lemarr and Antheil’s technology is now used in many of our essential tech today: Wi-Fi, GPS, and more.
In 2014, Hedy Lemarr and George Antheil were inducted into the National Inventor’s Hall of Fame.
2. Ada Lovelace, 1815-1852 Donaldson Collections/Getty Images The first Computer Algorithm Back in the mid-1800s, during a time when it was quite uncommon for a female to learn mathematics and science disciplines, Ada Lovelace made quite a mark on the field of computing. Lovelace has even been called the first computer programmer , as she translated a paper about an analytical engine (written by another author) and added extensive notes. In her notes, she included an algorithm that allowed the engine to compute Bernoulli numbers. This is considered to be the first-ever published algorithm.
3. Margaret A. Wilcox Car Heater In 1893, Margaret Wilcox was granted a patent for a car heater that used the engine’s heat to warm the inside of the car. It took some time for the system to gain success commercially, but Wilcox’s heating technology was eventually implemented in vehicles in the late 1920s. Today‘s car heaters are more advanced, but Wilcox’s ingenious idea certainly helped pave the way.
4. Mary Anderson, 1866-1953 The United States Patent and Trademark Office Windshield Wipers Another pioneer in automotive innovation, Mary Anderson came up with what would eventually become the modern windshield wiper.
Her 1903 patent was for a device the driver could operate inside of the vehicle: A lever that caused a spring-loaded arm with a rubber blade to swing across the windshield.
Before windshield wipers, drivers would have to manually remove rain from their windshields or find another way to deal with inclement weather while driving. Thanks to Anderson’s innovation, today’s roads are far safer during rain and snow.
Anderson was inducted into the National Inventor’s Hall of Fame in 2011.
5. Gertrude Belle Elion, 1918-1999 Derek Hudson/Getty Images Anti-leukemia drug, other medical innovations Gertrude Belle Elion was granted US Patent No. 2,884,667, along with George H. Hitchings, for 2-amino-6-mercaptopurine: A compound that helps treat leukemia. According to the patent, “The compounds are active in this respect, in the inhibition of lactic acid bacteria and for their bacterio-static effect. Compounds of this nature are also valuable for their antileukemic activity and in treating other forms of neoplastic growth.” Elion was also part of the team that created other drugs, including allopurinol, for treatment of gout, and acyclovir, which has been used to help provide relief for herpes infections.
Along with George Hitchings and Sir James Black, Elion earned a Noble Prize in 1988, and she was also inducted into the National Inventor’s Hall of Fame in 1991.
6. Dr. Ann Tsukamoto, 1952-present Image used with permission by copyright holder Stem cell advancements An inventor and stem cell researcher, Dr. Tsukamoto has several patents in the field of stem cell research. One of her most significant discoveries involved finding a way to isolate stem cells.
A PhD holder in microbiology and immunology, Dr. Tsukamoto’s research has been instrumental in cancer research and in helping to find treatments for a number of other medical conditions.
7. Letitia Geer, 1853-1935 The one-handed syringe Letitia Geer patented the one-handed syringe in 1899 , which made it easier for medical professionals to take blood and deliver life-saving medications. Geer’s invention, which was an advancement of Franic Rynd’s hollow needle and Charles Pravaz and Alexander Wood’s hypodermic syringe that came before it, allowed for safer and more efficient operation in the medical field. This design became the standard in medicine, changing the way we administered vaccines and medications.
8. Marie Curie, 1867-1934 Bettmann/Getty Images Radium, Polodium, and radiation in medicine Marie Curie became the first woman to receive a Nobel Prize in 1903 for her research on “radiation phenomena.” In 1911, Curie received yet another Nobel Prize for the isolation of radium. Along with her husband Pierre Curie, she discovered that radium destroyed diseased cells — and at a faster rate than healthy cells. This led them to research applications in medicine (i.e. tumors).
Marie Curie eventually began bringing portable X-ray machines to doctors on the front lines during World War 1. By 1920, she began suffering from health issues — likely from exposure to radioactive materials — and died in 1934. Her legacy lives on, however, as her contributions have changed science and medicine forever.
9. Stephanie Kwolek, 1923-2014 DuPont Kevlar A DuPont chemist and researcher, Stephanie Kwolek is credited with creating the ultra-strong fabric that’s now used in bullet-resistant gear that would eventually come to be known as Kevlar.
She made the discovery in 1965 while observing how “polyamide molecules line up to form liquid crystalline polymer solutions of exceptional strength and stiffness,” according to the American Chemical Society.
 “That discovery made way for Kwolek’s invention of industrial fibers that today protect and save thousands of lives. Most notable among these is Kevlar, a heat-resistant material that’s five times stronger than steel, but lighter than fiberglass,” the ACS adds.
You can now find Kevlar in a number of products, including bullet-proof vests, tires, military gear, and a number of other commercial products.
Stephanie Kwolek was inducted into the National Inventor’s Hall of Fame in 1994, and she received a number of other accolades as well.
10. Patricia Bath, 1942-2019 Wikimedia Commons Laser cataract surgery Dr. Bath holds five patents in total , but her most notable contribution is for the Laserphaco Probe. When Patricia Bath invented the Laserphaco Probe in 1986, it was a life-changing invention for people suffering from cataracts, allowing them to live somewhat normal lives and finally see clearly again.
Cataracts occur when the clear lenses in your eye become blurry and foggy, making it difficult to see. The condition can eventually even lead to blindness.
The Laserphaco Probe uses lasers and irrigation to get rid of the diseased lens and replace that lens with an artificial lens.
According to an MIT publication , the Laserphaco Probe “uses a laser to vaporize cataracts via a tiny, 1-millimeter insertion into a patient’s eye. After using the Laserphaco Probe to remove a cataract, the patient’s lens can be removed and a replacement lens inserted.” Thanks to Bath, thousands of people across the globe can see clearly.
Editors' Recommendations The most influential women in tech history How 3D printing has changed the world of prosthetic limbs forever Emerging Tech Features Tech for Change The Food Fight Women With Byte Emerging Tech Who’s your favorite baseball pitcher? Shane McClanahan? Sandy Alcantara? Justin Verlander? Whoever you said, two of the top sports-tech companies in the U.S. -- Rapsodo and Trajekt Sports -- have teamed up to build a robot version of them, and the results are reportedly uncannily accurate.
Okay, so we’re not talking about walking-talking-pitching standalone robots, as great a sci-fi-tinged MLB ad as that would be. However, Rapsodo and Trajekt have combined their considerable powers to throw a slew of different technologies at the problem of building a machine that's able to accurately simulate the pitching style of whichever player you want to practice batting against -- and they may just have pulled it off, too.
Outdoors Affordable and efficient portable power is a necessity these days, keeping our electronic devices operational while on the go. But there are literally dozens of options to choose from, making it abundantly difficult to decide which mobile charging solution is best for you. We've sorted through countless portable power options and came up with six of the best portable power stations to keep your smartphones, tablets, laptops, and other gadgets functioning while living off the grid.
The best overall: Jackery Explorer 1000 Jackery has been a mainstay in the portable power market for several years, and today, the company continues to set the standard. With three AC outlets, two USB-A, and two USB-C plugs, you'll have plenty of options for keeping your gadgets charged.
Emerging Tech This content was produced in partnership with HD Hyundai.
Autonomous vehicle navigation technology is certainly nothing new and has been in the works for the better part of a decade at this point. But one of the most common forms we see and hear about is the type used to control steering in road-based vehicles. That's not the only place where technology can make a huge difference. Autonomous driving systems can offer incredible benefits to boats and marine vehicles, too, which is precisely why HD Hyundai has unveiled its Avikus AI technology -- for marine and watercraft vehicles.
More recently, HD Hyundai participated in the Fort Lauderdale International Boat Show, to demo its NeuBoat level 2 autonomous navigation system for recreational boats. The name mashes together the words "neuron" and "boat" and is quite fitting since the Avikus' A.I. navigation tech is a core component of the solution, it will handle self-recognition, real-time decisions, and controls when on the water. Of course, there are a lot of things happening behind the scenes with HD Hyundai's autonomous navigation solution, which we'll dive into below -- HD Hyundai will also be introducing more about the tech at CES 2023.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
