Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Gaming Features Victoria Tran has a game-changing idea for changing video games By Sarah Sloat Close In October 2020, Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez (D-NY) slipped into the engine room of a spaceship and said, “I can’t kill Poki, she’s so nice.” The good of the internet Training from childhood Finding her path A multistep process Seconds later, she killed Poki.
The gameplay murder was part of a Twitch stream of Among Us , a massively popular social deduction game created by the indie studio Innersloth. While it premiered two years earlier, Among Us fandom boomed in 2020, fueled by pandemic boredom and internet celebrity interest.
 The point of the game is to work with “crewmates” to complete a series of tasks before “imposters” onboard kill everyone. But despite being a game rooted in quiet stabbing, its community guidelines emphasize a contradictory quality: Kindness.
This has much to do with Victoria Tran , the 27-year-old community director at Innersloth.
5 games by female developers you should check out This conceptual mouse has a crazy idea for storing your games “I don’t know if you know this, but the internet doesn’t have a great reputation for being kind and nice,” Tran tells Digital Trends while on a call from her home in British Columbia, Canada.
Victoria Tran, director at Innersloth.
Image used with permission by copyright holder The good of the internet There are trolls on every platform, and gamers have a particular reputation — earned or not. But Tran has seen the good of the internet. She experienced it while growing up on massively multiplayer online games (MMOs), like Habbo Hotel and Tibia.
 She’s made genuine connections online that mean a lot to her. So Tran’s thinking is: How can we make online communities better? “A lot of my work is based on the fact that while I have the energy, and while I have this curiosity, I want to explore the ways that we can make the internet better and not be satisfied with stereotypes,” Tran says.
“In some ways, I’ve kind of trained my entire life for this.” Tran is known in the gaming industry for incorporating kindness into community design. This means designing spaces inside and outside of games that encourage players to treat each other, and the people who make and run the game, with respect. Kindness design, Tran explains, can be facilitated through rules, establishing expected norms, treating players with respect, earning their trust, and creating a sense of hominess within the game and its social channels. Her philosophy is that kind communities beget further kindness: An audience that tolerates bad behavior allows for trolling. An intolerant audience will shut that down. Kindness design is what assists the creation of an intolerant audience.
“I’m concerned with how people love something,” Tran says. “Any thriving community is a place where people feel welcomed.” Training from childhood Image used with permission by copyright holder Rachel Kowert , a research psychologist and research director for Take This , calls Tran’s 2019 article on creating these communities a “groundbreaking piece on how to better understand the structure and nature of communities and how they can impact behavior in and out of gaming spaces.” “Her perspective is unique in terms of looking at the boundaries and structures of the social space as the foundation for the in and out of game behaviors of its community,” Kowert says. “She was one of the first to be vocal about these concepts in a public space.” It’s a perspective she started cultivating in childhood. Tran credits her interest in communications and community to the fact that she often took on the role of the translator, both literally and of a new culture, as a child.
“Kind design starts with rules because how the game is structured facilitates the kinds of discussions and attitudes you want.” “My parents were refugees from the Vietnam War,” Tran says. “They came to Canada, and they didn’t know English; they didn’t know the culture. So when I was growing up, I was a translator; I read government documents and tried to tell my parents what I thought they meant.” Childhood also meant hours playing free online MMOs. The concept that she could connect with people — even say she has friends — in other countries was beyond cool.
“In some ways, I’ve kind of trained my entire life for this,” Tran says.
Finding her path Image used with permission by copyright holder She went to university to study health care, graduated, and realized she hated the work. “I kind of had a giant mental breakdown,” she says. “I hated that I didn’t know what to do! So I literally started googling ‘what to do if you don’t know what to do’ and I saw something that said ‘start with your interests.’” She thought about online games.
Tran became the community strategist for the puzzle game Unpacking , the communications director at Kitfox Games , and in November 2020 the community director at Innersloth.
 She is also the co-organizer for Game & Colour , a grass-roots organization founded to support game developers of color.
Innersloth is a team of 13 remote workers, and Tran is busy. Beyond community design social media, she works on marketing, public relations, branding, campaigns, influencer partnerships, and other initiatives. When asked what she does when she’s not working, she laughs, then takes a long pause. (She likes reading manga and baking chocolate chip cookies.) Tran describes the role of a community director as the person who’s the link between game developers and game players, but more importantly, the person who facilitates the space where the community interacts. For Among Us , that means within the game and platforms where players discuss it, like Twitter and TikTok , where there are a respective 1.4 million and 2.9 million followers.
A multistep process Creating and facilitating a kind community, Tran explains, is a multistep process that ultimately reflects the environment game developers want surrounding their work. It involves holding players accountable to a code of conduct , as well as being clear about what’s expected: It’s not enough to say “don’t be a dick,” Tran says. Rules need to be clearly defined, publicized, fair, and applied to everyone.” In practice, this means incorporating in-game design elements like making it easy to report a player for bad behavior or creating a list of words people can’t say in the game.
“Kind design starts with rules because how the game is structured facilitates the kinds of discussions and attitudes you want,” Tran says.
Tran advocates for establishing the norms of the space (demonstrating what’s an acceptable way to communicate and what’s not), building trust with the community through transparency, and charming them through positive encounters and the celebration of fandom. One of the ways Tran does this is as deceptively simple as it is effective: She responds to comments, even the comments posted by haters.
“If you’re going to post in a community, you should be a part of it. Putting in the time and effort can really change things.” It pays off. For example, Tran recalls an event that happened soon after the Among Us TikTok account was created. She posted a video about a new map, it went viral, and suddenly it was flooded with “dead game” comments — people complaining, people saying they were over the game.
“It was just endless comments like that and I was so demotivated,” Tran says. “Then I thought about it and asked myself — what am I actually going to do about this? What I did was literally sit for hours and respond to as many comments as possible and not do it in a sassy way that some brands are, but in ways that were honest and I hope a little funny.” Suddenly, she saw a shift. Other commenters joined the conversation, asking: Why are you bashing an indie game? Why are you hating something that people love playing? “It was a complete tonal shift,” Tran says. “It’s an example of why, if you’re going to post in a community, you should be a part of it. Putting in the time and effort can really change things.” Tran views the work as a continuation of the sort of online spaces facilitated by early YouTubers, like John and Hank Green and their Project for Awesome, and describes it as a “win-win” for game developers. Kind communities, Tran says, are simply good for business: They bring in an audience, but more so, they bring in an audience that shares thoughtful feedback and cares about the people making the product. (When Tran tweeted over the holidays after announcing the account would be taking a break, the Among Us Twitter followers gently scolded her.) “It’s also really nice to have people care and engage with you in a meaningful way,” Tran says. “There’s a very human aspect within all of it that is really hard to quantify. I wouldn’t really want to quantify it anyway.” Editors' Recommendations ‘President of Video Games’ Reggie Fils-Aimé delivers his State of the Industry address 10 games by Black developers to check out Video game companies pledge to fight climate change at the UN. Is it enough? Features Tech for Change The Food Fight Women With Byte Web With so many Black Friday deals already under way, it can be tough to keep on top of everything. Walmart has dozens of different awesome deals so we've narrowed things down to the best Walmart Black Friday deals currently available. There's a little bit of everything here with discounts on TVs, headphones, laptops, coffee makers, and much more. The retailer is also having a massive Black Friday Lego sale. Whatever you're considering buying, keep reading while we take you through some great options.
Other retailers have started early too, so check out Amazon Black Friday deals and Best Buy Black Friday deals.
Gaming Who doesn't love LEGO? If you're looking for the perfect gift for your kids or yourself, you can save some money during LEGO Black Friday deals. We've pulled some of our favorite options from the most popular LEGO sets, including Marvel, Star Wars, Technics and Speed Champions. There are also some generic sets at the bottom. Most of these are part of the massive Walmart Black Friday LEGO sale, so check that out too. While there are early Black Friday deals, they may not last until the actual shopping event. If you see something, you should grab it today.
Black Friday LEGO Marvel deals The LEGO and Marvel collaboration has brought joy to children for years now. If you want a cheap way to collect figures from your favorite Marvel comics, movies and TV shows, LEGO sets are a great place to start. Below we've pulled some cheap sets that include adult-focused sets like the Infinity Gauntlet and full-size action figures as well as some kid-friendly sets that focus on a mini-fig with some scenery.
Gaming November 19 marks the 25th anniversary of the original Half-Life, and to celebrate, Valve made a special announcement. No, Half-Life 3 was not announced. But Valve celebrated the anniversary with a massive update to the game on PC and a new documentary detailing its development. The best part: It's all available for free.
Half-Life's 25th-anniversary update incorporates the Half-Life: Uplink demo that Valve gave away as a CD via magazine and hardware manufacturer promotions in the 1990s and introduces many multiplayer maps. That includes four brand-new maps -- Contamination, Pool Party, Disposal, and Rocket Frenzy -- and three more maps that were previously only included in the Half-Life: Further Data CD release: Double Cross, Rust Mill, and Xen DM. It's also now possible to play as a Space Biker, Prototype Barney, Skeleton, and Too Much Coffee Man and use dozens of Further Data sprays in Half-Life: Deathmatch.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
