Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home News Meet the ‘Pirate Queen’ fighting to kill paywalls on research By Clara McMichael Close Academic publishing might not seem like a particularly lucrative industry, but despite how dry and boring it might sound, it’s surprisingly profitable. Together, the world’s top publishers rake in more than $19 billion per year, which means academic publishing is almost on par with the music and film industries.
The birth of a slow-burning revolution Legal battles and backlash The fight continues But there’s one big difference: Unlike the music and film industries, where the content creators get a large cut of the profits, researchers aren’t paid a single penny by the companies who publish their work. Instead, the publishers get research papers for free and then charge readers (often students, universities, and even the authors themselves) exorbitant fees to access them. As a result, these organizations often enjoy profit margins higher than those of Google or Coca-Cola.
Image used with permission by copyright holder In 2011, Alexandra Elbakyan, then a 22-year-old student in Almaty, Kazakhstan, got fed up with this system and decided to throw a wrench in the gears. She created a program called Sci-Hub, a website reminiscent of The Pirate Bay that allows users to circumvent paywalls and download research articles for free.
Now, 10 years after she founded Sci-Hub, Elbakyan, who has been referred to as a “pirate queen” and “Robin Hood,” has found herself bogged down in lawsuits and investigations while she fights to provide the open access service that has become essential to the scientific community, particularly during the COVID-19 pandemic.
Halo: MCC fans get a free nameplate for Women’s History Month “People expected it [would] be shut down very soon because of copyright violation,” Elbakyan told Digital Trends in an interview conducted via email. Few people expected the site to still be up, over t10 years later.
The birth of a slow-burning revolution When Elbakyan was an undergraduate in spring 2009 at the Kazakh National Technical University, studying Information Technologies with a security specialization, she began her final project on the topic of brain-machine interfaces. While researching, she encountered articles that were paywalled. Paywalls didn’t phase Elbakyan — she’d been evading them since she was a teenager to download neuroscience books. But she wanted to make papers available to other researchers encountering the same problem who didn’t have her technological wherewithal.
In 2009, this was only a “blurry nonspecific idea,” Elbakyan wrote in her blog.
 After she graduated, she wanted to do bioengineering research and spent a few months working in neuroscience labs in Russia, Germany and the U.S. But Elbakyan found that her work wasn’t fulfilling and returned to Kazakhstan with dreams of bigger projects. She spent a few months freelancing as a web programmer, and finally began to code Sci-Hub. She launched the website on September 5, 2011.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Sci-Hub became popular almost immediately, with Elbakyan running all aspects of it — from the programming and server configuration, to the social media and communications. It works by using a script that logs in to journals with online credentials from people or institutions with legitimate access, then downloads the content for the Sci-Hub user. (Elbakyan acknowledges that some of these online credentials may have been obtained through phishing, but denies that she has done the phishing herself.) Papers already accessed by Sci-Hub are kept in a repository to be retrieved for other users who request them.
Sci-Hub sparked a debate in the scientific community — what Elbakyan does is a violation of copyright law in most places — but she pushed back on this, using her core belief in Communism as justification.
“Communism is one of the basic ethic principles of science, and Sci-Hub implements exactly that principle,” she said. “The academic publishing business is based on human rights violation[s] and is unethical.” Legal battles and backlash In its first year of existence, Sci-Hub users downloaded nearly 1,800,000 PDFs. By 2016, Sci-Hub hosted over 50 million papers, with millions of download requests coming from all over the world. At this time, the publisher with the most requested articles, according to Science , was Elsevier, a behemoth scientific publisher based in the Netherlands.
Elbakyan’s work conflicted with the journal’s ability to profit off the articles on its sites, so in 2015, Elsevier sued Elbakyan in the United States. Elbakyan, who by then had moved to Moscow, wrote a letter to the judge, defending Sci-Hub and pointing out that the researchers themselves didn’t even make money from their work published on Elsevier.
“Elsevier is not a creator of these papers,” she wrote. “All papers on their website are written by researchers, and researchers do not receive money from what Elsevier collects.” Image used with permission by copyright holder In October 2015, the Southern District Court of New York ordered that the Sci-Hub website be taken down and Elbakyan pay $15 million in damages to Elsevier for copyright infringement. Elbakyan wasn’t in the U.S., so there was no way to force her to pay up. The website did go down briefly, but just days later, Sci-Hub popped back up, with a new overseas domain. (When Digital Trends accessed the site, the domain was from Wallis and Futuna, a tiny island territory of France in the South Pacific.) According to Elbakyan, the media coverage of the lawsuit boosted her site’s usership.
But the lawsuits didn’t stop there. In 2017, Elbakyan received notice that she was being sued by the American Chemical Society, which was ultimately awarded $4.8 million. In December 2020, Elsevier, the American Chemical Society, and another publisher, Wiley, sued in India, sparking an outcry from scientists across the country, who relied heavily on Sci-Hub for their work.
“I expected that Sci-Hub [would] become legal many years ago,” Elbakyan said. “It is obvious that when scientists are using it to do their work, they are not criminals.” On top of the lawsuits, a December 2019 report from the Washington Post cited an anonymous former senior U.S. intelligence official who said he believed Elbakyan was working with the GRU, Russia’s military intelligence agency. Elbakyan denied this. In May 2021, she received an email saying that the FBI was requesting information regarding her Apple account.
“Sci-Hub is a very cool and advanced project, hence government must be behind it,” Elbakyan said, when speculating on why the FBI suspected her of working with the GRU. “They think: ‘How it is that a woman can be a genius? That is impossible!’” She also thought that because Sci-Hub used thousands of passwords to access university libraries, perhaps the U.S. government suspected the GRU had infiltrated the universities.
The fight continues Despite these controversies, Elbakyan’s work took on a renewed importance to the scientific community during the COVID-19 pandemic. During the lockdown, Elbakyan says, the number of Sci-Hub users increased by around 100,000 and articles about COVID were downloaded at a rate far surpassing that of other diseases. She said she’s received letters from health practitioners, saying how Sci-Hub helps them with their work.
Currently, Sci-Hub has over 84 million papers in its database, according to its website, and users generally download between two million and three million each day. Elbakyan has observed that more scientific articles are available in open access than ever before, due to the influence of her work. But Sci-Hub continues to be embroiled in lawsuits and investigations. In January 2020, Sci-Hub’s Twitter account was suspended for violating the site’s counterfeit policy.
 And Sci-Hub has frozen downloads during the trial in India.
“I am trying to create some kind of a movement for a free knowledge,” Elbakyan said. “So far, I am not very successful with this political fight, but I hope for a better future!” Outside of Sci-Hub, Elbakyan is pursuing a degree in Theory of Knowledge at the Institute of Philosophy at the Russian Academy of Sciences. In the humanities, most of her peers haven’t even heard of Sci-Hub.
“I do not want to run Sci-Hub indefinitely, because I have many other ideas, plans, and projects,” Elbakyan said. “But I want for Sci-Hub to win, and for me to be recognized as the person who made scientific knowledge free.” Editors' Recommendations The legacy of Sally Ride: America’s first woman in space Features Women With Byte Computing We've recently heard that Nvidia and AMD may soon be ready to launch their own ARM-based client processors. That, combined with predictions that ARM chips might account for up to 30% of the PC market in just a few years, sounds like worrying information for rivals. However, Intel appears to be anything but worried as it rides the high of its surprisingly good earnings. Is the threat of ARM chips really as insignificant as Intel's CEO makes it out to be? Right now, Intel dominates the client CPU market by a large margin, although AMD also makes some of the best processors and is a formidable competitor in its own right. Either way, both companies base their chips on the x86 system architecture. However, Microsoft has taken great interest in the ARM architecture over the years, and both AMD and Nvidia will soon be able to jump in. Until 2024, Qualcomm has an exclusive deal for making ARM-based chips for Windows devices, but when that deal is up, there's nothing left to stop other manufacturers from making their own chips. With the path cleared and Qualcomm leading the charge, the transition to ARM for Windows machines seems more possible than ever.
News When you think of drone delivery, you probably imagine a midsized drone carrying a coffee or a small snack to a customer waiting outside their home in a residential area. What you won’t think of is a large, pilotless, multi-rotor machine carrying cargo over choppy waters to a massive wind turbine.
But that’s exactly what energy firm Ørsted has started doing in the North Sea off the east coast of the U.K.
Computing Microsoft has just announced the latest update to Windows 11, which brings the operating system up to version 23H2. This is a cumulative update that comes with some of the most exciting features already announced in September, including Copilot, and brings some changes to Teams, among other things. Here's what's new and how to get it on your own PC.
When Microsoft first announced Copilot during its September event, many thought that it'd be available right away -- and it was, but not widely. Now, with the 23H2 update, Copilot should be downloaded and toggled on by default, alongside everything else that was announced during the Surface event. Some new things are on the way, too.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
