Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Social Media Features Meet Alexis Tirado, the young Latina carrying the flame of Hispanic Millennials By Digital Trends Español Close Image used with permission by copyright holder This story originally ran on Digital Trends Español — the Spanish-language version of the site you know and love.
Read in Spanish Puerto Rican, empanada enthusiast (above all, cheese, and preferably her mother’s), iPhone freak, and deep-rooted writer, Alexis Tirado is many things. She’s also an emerging leader of the digital space for Latinos in the United States as Editorial Director for The Flama , Univision’s take on Buzzfeed.
“My mom is from El Salvador and my dad is from Puerto Rico. I identify more with my Puerto Rican side because I grew up with my dad’s side of the family,” Alexis told Digital Trends Español.
 “My father’s family was one of the first Latino families in Washington Heights.” “Media is tough … and you have to be a heroine.” Alexis embraces her Latin heritage from all angles. She’s also one of the most prominent voices speaking for Hispanic millennials — with a lot to say. She has all the attributes of that generation, most importantly, a knack for multitasking. As we talked on the phone, she was on her way home from the gym, but not before ordering a turkey burger. And she eloquently carries on a conversation, even while searching her phone’s browser for a quote from one of her favorite writers, Nora Ephron: “Above all, be the heroine of your life, not the victim.” Ephron is an inspiration for Alexis, and to her, the quote speaks to the challenges of working in the media world. “Media is tough … and you have to be a heroine. If you have a story you have to keep going. As Latinas, we have a mission in life, you know. We have to be the storytellers and pave the way so other Latinas do the same thing.” Mastering her craft Alexis has worked as a blogger for Martha Stewart and Alicia Keys, and has also worked for MTV Act. Most recently, Alexis joined The Flama , Univision’s digital content platform in English — sometimes with hints of Spanish — intended for Millennials (second- and third-generation Hispanics). As Editorial Director for the platform, Alexis is responsible for crafting the editorial content with topics ranging from comedy to popular culture on Spanish-Latin idiosyncrasies.
Alexis has a track record of success. She started writing at a young age — she loved stories, comic books, and kept her own journal. In high school, before text-messaging and smartphones were even things, Alexis wrote notes to people, and during her last year of college, her teacher told her she had the potential to become a writer.
“No one ever said that to me before. I was really shocked. That changed everything for me. That gave me the confidence to pursue a career in writing, and then I started in magazines, websites, and the Internet. I like social media … it’s so fun and so quick.” While talking to Alexis, it’s easy to notice her commitment and passion for pop culture and everything social. It’s insightful and bold, with a touch of irreverence, and an attitude of Latino empowerment that goes beyond mere words. As the editor of MTV Act , she highlighted the positive contributions of millennials, celebrities, and organizations seeking to improve their lives and the lives of others.
Out of 8,500 candidates, Tirado was chosen to become the head blogger for Alicia Keys’ 2010 campaign, I Am Super Woman.
She also served as an online editor for Martha Stewart Living’s Omnimedia project, Dreamers into Doers , which encourages and helps women become entrepreneurs.
“I had the opportunity to work with these two wonderful women … both are successful because they had a good foundation and people who believed in what they were doing … Both wanted to create communities and content that will inspire other women, younger, either through songs or through other skills,” Alexis pointed out when asked about her experience with these two high profile personalities.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Her fighting spirit, inherited from her parents and grandmother (Puerto Rican and Salvadorean), has stood throughout her career. “My grandmother was married twice. The first time she was a widow, she decided to move from Puerto Rico to New York City on her own. She never accepted any welfare or food stamps. She worked as a seamstress. She is such a strong, strong, strong woman. I have never met a stronger woman in my life.” At The Flama, Alexis carries on this legacy of empowerment for women, especially Latinas.
En route to South by South West 2016 Alexis will have the opportunity to participate as a panelist in one of the most important events in music, film and digital media of the United States – South by Southwest 2016, being held in Austin, Texas. Considering the limited Latino presence at such events in the past, having the opportunity to discuss issues relevant to the Hispanic market is an achievement for Alexis, and very significant for the community. Her panel is called Marketing Latino Cool ( March 14), and along with a group of prominent representatives of the Latino media, they will analyze the transition from traditional marketing aimed at Hispanics to a more dynamic, sophisticated and complex format composed by second- and third-generation Latinos.
Related : What to watch at the second annual Tecla awards “It is important that good marketers, its brands, its agencies, people in general understand that there are so many different textures and layers to the Latino experience and that we are not all one thing. We are not all JLo fans … We are not all George Lopez fans … We are such a rainbow of millions of colors … and preferences. They need to know the audience and define a little deeper on who we are,” says Alexis.
The Flama The Flama is an example of successful marketing to the Hispanic audience, mainly because it is a digital space created by Latinos for Latinos. It all starts with having a diverse team, followed by content that adapts to certain tastes permeating its Millenial audience.
Some publishers still feel distrust for the Hispanic market, and this is directly proportional to their lack of knowledge of the community. For Alexis, breaking down that barrier is part of her job at The Flama. “We do a good job through comedy … we do a good job informing our audience of things that are happening … We do a good job celebrating our heritage, our culture and our pride,” she explains. “We really care about what we’re doing. We all know that is important and we all want to elevate the Latino voice.” La Flama seeks to create multiple spaces that capture a Hispanic audience, a demographic that will only grow and have greater representation in the media, both digital and traditional, in years ahead. “We’re always fighting for a seat at the table, the main table in main stream media,” Alexis tells us. “Sometimes you have just to make your own table and sit at it, creating content and trying to becoming your own story tellers, until it becomes mainstream.” Latina power Alexis feels that the time has come for Latinas in the United States. “I feel like currently being Latina is something trendy,” she says, but stresses that it needs to be more than temporary. “This is a big year for us. Now more than ever is our time to shine, and if someone is reading this article and interview, and are Latina and they want to become writers, they want to create videos or whatever they want to do, they shouldn’t wait anymore, this is the time do to it. People are starting to pay attention to us … People are finally noticing that we have a big reach the country.” Emerging Tech Features Emerging Tech Features Women With Byte Social Media Mark Zuckerberg training with UFC champions Israel Adesanya (left) and Alexander Volkanovski (right). Meta/Mark Zuckerberg Meta CEO Mark Zuckerberg said on Sunday that he’s not holding his breath over the proposed cage fight with Elon Musk, who runs SpaceX and Tesla, and also owns Twitter (now called X).
Social Media X, formerly Twitter, is to get video calling as part of ongoing efforts to turn the platform into a so-called “everything app” offering a broad range of services.
X CEO Linda Yaccarino announced the news during an interview with CNBC on Thursday.
Mobile Instagram is amazing, and many of us use it as a record of our lives — uploading the best bits of our trips, adventures, and notable moments. But sometimes you can lose the original files of those moments, leaving the Instagram copy as the only available one . While you may be happy to leave it up there, it's a lot more convenient to have another version of it downloaded onto your phone or computer. While downloading directly from Instagram can be tricky, there are ways around it. Here are a few easy ways to download Instagram photos.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
