Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Social Media Breaking the glass ceiling: 6 women in tech you should know By Brie Barbee Close Image used with permission by copyright holder With only 11 percent of executive positions at Silicon Valley companies held by women and fewer than one-in-five technology startups are female-led, working in the tech industry as a woman can often be isolating and disheartening. The National Center for Women and Information Technology estimates that women only held 25 percent of all professional computing jobs in 2015, despite making up 57 percent of the workforce. For women of color, that number is even lower, with only 5 percent of those women identifying as Asian, 3 percent as black, and 1 percent as Hispanic.
Angela Ahrendts, Senior VP of Retail, Apple Sheryl Sandberg, COO, Facebook Liu Qing, President, Didi Chuxing Kimberly Bryant, Founder, Black Girls Code Erica Baker, Senior Engineering Manager, Patreon Gwynne Shotwell, President/COO, SpaceX At companies like Twitter, only 15 percent of its tech jobs are held by women , while women made up more than 50 percent of non-technical jobs (human resources, marketing, etc.).
Fewer women pursuing degrees in computer science does not bode well for the industry either, which is often seen as unwelcoming and hostile toward its female employees.
 But despite the fact the industry landscape is less than ideal for women, it doesn’t mean there aren’t some badass ladies out there making their mark.
Here are just a few of the top women in tech you should be aware of.
Angela Ahrendts, Senior VP of Retail, Apple Ilya S. Savenok/Getty Images Angela Ahrendts is an American businesswoman and senior vice president of Retail at Apple. Before joining Apple’s executive team in 2014 — where she remains the company’s sole female senior executive — Ahrendts was the CEO of Burberry, a luxury fashion house based in London. Prior to that, she was the executive vice president at Liz Claiborne. With more than three decades of experience in the fashion industry, Ahrendts is not only revolutionizing Apple’s products by making them more fashionable, but also more profitable. She ranked 15 on Forbes’ 2016 list of the world’s most powerful women in tech, and earned more $70 million in 2014, making her the highest-paid Apple executive.
Twitter Sheryl Sandberg, COO, Facebook Image used with permission by copyright holder Sheryl Sandberg, chief operating officer of Facebook and founder of the Lean In Foundation, has been named the most powerful women in tech by Forbes six years in a row.
 She is also the author of the 2013 bestseller Lean In: Women, Work, and the Will to Lead , which is about women in business leadership. She is the first woman to serve on Facebook’s board of directors, and before joining Facebook , she was the VP of Global Online Sales and Operations at Google and the chief of staff for United States Secretary of the Treasury, Lawrence Summers, during the Clinton administration. She has been involved in a variety of campaigns to encourage women to pursue roles in leadership, too. In a recent interview , Sandberg says she “will not rest” until women run half the world’s countries and corporations.
Facebook Liu Qing, President, Didi Chuxing VCG/Getty Images Liu Qing, also know as Jean Liu, is a Chinese business executive and the president of Didi Chuxing, a Chinese ride-sharing company. A graduate of Harvard University, Liu was instrumental in the end of a years-long battle with Uber CEO Travis Kalanick for the future of ride-sharing in China. The two companies eventually reached an agreement where Uber took a partial stock in Didi and ultimately backed out of China. Liu has been named among some of the most influential people in the world and has spoken out about creating a better work-family balance for women.
 She also helped start the Didi Women’s Network to help women with families succeed in tech, which she believes “opens a new phase of enhanced motivation and broadened thinking.” Kimberly Bryant, Founder, Black Girls Code Image used with permission by copyright holder Electrical engineer and founder of Black Girls Code , Kimberly Bryant wants to see more women of color in the tech industry. With more than 20 years of experience in biotech and a degree in electrical engineering from Vanderbilt University, Bryant founded the non-profit in 2011 with the goal of teaching young black girls the skills needed to code, program computers, and build websites and robots. Black Girls Code hopes to teach one million girls by 2040, which will in turn help fill the expected 1.4 million job openings in computing in 2020. Unsurprisingly, Bryant has even been recognized as a White House Champion of Change for Tech Inclusion.
Twitter Erica Baker, Senior Engineering Manager, Patreon Brian Ach/Getty Images Erica Baker is an engineer from San Francisco who has worked with many well-known tech companies, including Google, Slack, and most recently, Patreon. She has been an advocate for diversity and inclusion in technology for many years. In 2015, after leaving Google for Slack, Baker revealed that she started an internal spreadsheet at Google for employees to disclose their salaries, which Baker said led to several colleagues being able to negotiate pay raises. She is also one of the founding members of Project Include, a non-profit organization that offers assessments to tech companies and address a lack of diversity. Currently, Baker is the senior engineering managing at Patreon and has written about the difficulties of being a woman of color in the workplace.
Twitter G wynne Shotwell, President/COO, SpaceX David Elrich/Digital Trends President and chief operating officer of SpaceX — the aerospace manufacturer best known for recently shooting a Tesla into space — Gwynne Shotwell handles the daily operations of Elon Musk’s closely watched company. Shotwell is a graduate of Northwestern University with degrees in both mechanical engineering and applied mathematics. She originally intended to work in the automotive industry and enrolled in Chrysler’s management training program, but did not remain in that industry. She joined SpaceX in 2002, the same year the company was founded. She was hired as the vice president of Business Development and worked her way up to her current role as president.
Apple Facebook Women With Byte Social Media Mark Zuckerberg training with UFC champions Israel Adesanya (left) and Alexander Volkanovski (right). Meta/Mark Zuckerberg Meta CEO Mark Zuckerberg said on Sunday that he’s not holding his breath over the proposed cage fight with Elon Musk, who runs SpaceX and Tesla, and also owns Twitter (now called X).
Social Media X, formerly Twitter, is to get video calling as part of ongoing efforts to turn the platform into a so-called “everything app” offering a broad range of services.
X CEO Linda Yaccarino announced the news during an interview with CNBC on Thursday.
Mobile Instagram is amazing, and many of us use it as a record of our lives — uploading the best bits of our trips, adventures, and notable moments. But sometimes you can lose the original files of those moments, leaving the Instagram copy as the only available one . While you may be happy to leave it up there, it's a lot more convenient to have another version of it downloaded onto your phone or computer. While downloading directly from Instagram can be tricky, there are ways around it. Here are a few easy ways to download Instagram photos.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
