Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Space News The legacy of Sally Ride: America’s first woman in space By Georgina Torbet Close Of all the barriers to equality that women smashed in the 1960s and 1970s, one of the most exciting was seeing women leave the Earth and join the exploration of space. No one is better known to represent this achievement than Sally Ride, a NASA astronaut who became the first American woman in space in 1983. We spoke to Jennifer Ross-Nazzal, historian at NASA’s Johnson Space Center, about Ride’s career at NASA and the long reach of her legacy for women in science and beyond.
Diversifying space Not-so-public relations A lasting legacy NASA in the 1960s and 1970s was not a welcoming environment for women. Even though pioneering Black women like Mary Jackson and Katherine Johnson were instrumental in both getting men to the moon in the Apollo missions and demonstrating that women had valuable skills to share in spaceflight, the agency remained overwhelmingly white and male. The Astronaut Corps was even more so, being entirely staffed by white men up until 1978.
This was highlighted by Ruth Bates Harris, a Black woman who was appointed NASA’s Director of Equal Employment Opportunity in 1971 and who produced a highly critical report, calling the agency’s equal opportunity efforts “a sham.” For this forthright honesty, she was fired from NASA in 1973.
These Black pioneers were pillars of the U.S space program ISS astronaut describes his first 100 days in space Meet the astronauts going to space on Crew Dragon’s first operational flight This firing was widely criticized in the media and left many members of the public outraged, to the extent that NASA faced a congressional investigation about the issue. Harris was eventually rehired into a different position, but the incident demonstrated that the agency needed to change with the times and become a more diverse environment if it wanted the continued support of the public.
Diversifying space That change began with the recruitment of a more diverse group of astronaut candidates, who would become the famous NASA Astronaut Group 8 announced in 1978. This group of 35 astronauts included Sally Ride along with five other women, as well as the first Black and Asian American astronauts.
Recruiting women and members of other minorities took some time, however, as many were skeptical that NASA was really interested in hiring from outside of its traditional pool. “It took some convincing for women to believe that NASA was actually going to select women,” Ross-Nazzal said. “Initially, there was some reticence over whether the agency was really serious about this.” American astronaut and scientist Sally Ride, an STS-7 mission specialist, (1951 – 2012) is pictured in the aft flight deck seat of the space shuttle Challenger during de-orbit preparations, 1983.
NASA/Interim Archives/Getty Images To encourage people from minorities to apply, NASA hired Star Trek actress Nichelle Nichols to promote recruitment.
 Nichols recalled telling NASA at the time, as reported by Wired , “I am going to bring you so many qualified women and minority astronaut applicants for this position that if you don’t choose one… everybody in the newspapers across the country will know about it.” Her mission was a success, and from the moment NASA Astronaut Group 8 was announced the public was fascinated by Ride and her female colleagues. They were the object of intense – and often sexist – media coverage. “They focused on the diets of these women, what they ate, how they exercised. They also focused on their weight,” Ross-Nazzal said. “You never saw that with the men.” The coverage of the female astronauts also focused on their femininity, Ross-Nazzal said, such as their cooking skills, how well they kept their houses, and how their husbands felt about their careers. While their skills and expertise were acknowledged – these were women with PhDs and medical degrees – they still faced additional scrutiny related to their gender when compared to men. There was even an astronaut trainer who admitted to Ross-Nazzal that he was unsure if women would be up to the physical challenges of the job when the class began, but Ride and her colleagues met every challenge put in front of them.
Not-so-public relations Ride herself was somewhat uncomfortable in the spotlight. “She was never a huge promoter of herself,” Ross-Nazzal said. “She liked her privacy. That was one of the complaints of the media – that she was too prickly, that she was not open enough.” While other female astronauts like Anna Fisher embraced their roles as prominent public figures, Ride was more reserved and focused on her work.
This reservation extended to her private life. After her death, it was revealed that Ride had been in a long-term relationship with tennis player Tam O’Shaughnessy, making Ride the first known lesbian astronaut.
 She never spoke about her sexuality publicly, which was understandable in a culture in which being outed as LGBT would be a career-ender for most people. Her sister, Bear Ride, said at the time that Sally never hid her relationship from her family but she chose not to speak about her sexuality because she valued her privacy.
Astronaut Sally K. Ride, STS-7 mission specialist, communicates with ground controllers from the flight deck of the Earth-orbiting Space Shuttle Challenger.
NASA This private character didn’t dim the public’s appreciation of Ride and excitement for when she took her first trip to space, however. On June 18, 1983, Ride flew aboard the STS-7 Space Shuttle mission, becoming the first American woman in space.
Crowds flocked to Kennedy Space Center to see her and the other astronauts off, with many wearing t-shirts emblazoned with “Ride, Sally Ride” from the song Mustang Sally.
“There was a lot of interest in that mission because it was a first, and it represented so much to many American women,” Ross-Nazzal said. “It was really a big deal for American women to see this hero — someone who had made it.” The STS-7 mission deployed two satellites, one for Canada and one for Indonesia. Ride and colleague John Fabian also operated the shuttle’s robotic arm to deploy and then recapture a Shuttle pallet satellite (SPAS-1) which carried scientific experiments.
The Space Shuttle landed six days after takeoff, but due to bad weather it had to land at Edwards Air Force Base instead of Kennedy, as had been planned. “So as you can imagine, there were a lot of people there who were very disappointed,” Ross-Nazzal said. “They wanted to see Sally!” Ride’s second space mission came not long after, in 1984. The STS-41-G mission carried Ride along with a second female astronaut, Kathy Sullivan, who became the first American woman to go on a spacewalk.
NASA’s STS 41-G space shuttle Challenger mission during an orbit, October 1984. Pictured are, clockwise from lower left, astronauts Jon McBride, Paul Scully-Power, Marc Garneau, mission commander Robert Crippen, David Leestma, Kathryn Sullivan, and Sally Ride (1951 – 2012).
NASA/Interim Archives/Getty Both of those missions used the Space Shuttle Challenger. Ride had been assigned to a third mission, but in 1986 that craft was destroyed after liftoff, killing seven crew members, in what is known as the Challenger disaster. Following this, Ride’s subsequent mission was canceled as the Space Shuttle program was halted to investigate the cause of the accident.
Ride did join a presidential commission to review the accident, called the Rogers Commission, and then later moved to NASA headquarters to work on a report on the future of space travel. She left NASA in 1987 to work in academia, but she continued working in space education and advocacy until her death in 2012.
A lasting legacy Her legacy as the first American woman in space has been long and influential. As an astronaut, Ride was effectively the face of NASA – and people saw that, for the first time, the face of spaceflight could be a woman. “When people think of NASA, they think of astronauts,” Ross-Nazzal said. “So they are very prominent in America’s psyche when they think about the space agency.” From the first moment they were introduced to the public, Ride and her five female colleagues in Astronaut Group 8 were figureheads and inspirations for women across the country. “For equal employment opportunity and women’s programs, they would have these six women who were selected [as astronauts] in ‘78 talk at these events,” Ross-Nazzal said. The six were seen as a symbol of how times were changing, and how, even if it was hard for women to reach high levels in certain jobs at the time, there was the start of equity in something as high-profile as the space program.
NASA astronaut Sally Ride (1951 – 2012) trains in the Manipulator Development Facility (MDF) of the mockup and integration laboratory at the Johnson Space Center, Houston, Texas, on January 19, 1983.
Space Frontiers/Getty There are women at NASA currently who said they were inspired by Ride as well. Ellen Ochoa, former director of the Johnson Space Center and a former astronaut who became the first Hispanic woman in space, was working on her Ph.D. at Stanford where Ride had also completed her Ph.D. and thinking about becoming an astronaut. “She saw Sally in that position, and all the other women of the ‘78 class, and thought, ‘Maybe it’s not such a strange thing that I be an astronaut’,” Ross-Nazzal said.
Another former astronaut and current deputy administrator of NASA, Pam Melroy, was inspired by Ride as well. “[Melroy] said she always knew she wanted to be an astronaut, but when she saw Sally Ride in 1983 it really cemented that idea for her,” Ross-Nazzal said. “[Ride] had an influence on these women by planting that seed.” She also gave inspiration to women in all walks of life, not just those in science jobs. Her going to space was a cultural shift in the perception of what women could do and be, according to Ross-Nazzal said: “It was a sign of the times that women had finally made it. There had been so few astronauts up until that time that this was a really big deal. Women were finally part of an elite group of space fliers… It had a tremendous impact on American culture.” As for Ride herself, she was a private person who by necessity put herself into public view, and by doing so changed the history of American spaceflight. “I never went into physics or the astronaut corps to become a role model,” Ride told Harvard Business Review a few weeks before her death. “But after my first flight, it became clear to me that I was one.” Throughout her career, she became aware of how much influence she had over how a generation of women saw themselves and what they could become. As she put it, “You can’t be what you can’t see.” Editors' Recommendations Meet the ‘Pirate Queen’ fighting to kill paywalls on research Chinese crew launches to new space station — including station’s first woman Jeff Bezos to ride a rocket to space on Blue Origin’s first tourism flight Astronaut Christina Koch says NASA can ‘absolutely’ get to the moon by 2024 Virgin Galactic readies space tourism trips with first Spaceport America flight News Features Women With Byte Space NASA astronauts and International Space Station (ISS) residents Christina Koch and Jessica Meir have made history by performing the first ever all-woman spacewalk. Starting bright and early at 7:50 a.m. ET on Friday, October 18, the pair ventured outside the International Space Station in order to perform repairs to the station's power system.
Astronauts Jessica Meir (left) and Christina Koch (right) made history by performing the first-ever all-woman spacewalk. Image used with permission by copyright holder Space Expedition 60 Flight Engineer Christina Koch of NASA works on a U.S. spacesuit in the Quest airlock where U.S. spacewalks are staged aboard the International Space Station. NASA Two astronauts aboard the International Space Station (ISS), Christina Koch and Jessica Meir, are set to perform the first all-female spacewalk in history later this month. Their work will be part of a slew of upcoming spacewalks in an ongoing project to upgrade the batteries on the space station.
Space Astronomers recently discovered the most distant black hole ever observed in the X-ray wavelength, and it has some unusual properties that could help uncover the mysteries of how the largest black holes form.
Within the center of most galaxies lies a supermassive black hole, which is hundreds of thousands or even millions or billions of times the mass of our sun. These huge black holes are thought to be related to the way in which galaxies form, but this relationship isn't clear -- and how exactly supermassive black holes grow so massive is also an open question.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
