Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Phones Best Tablets Tesla Phone Download Android 14 Best Android Phones Home Mobile Products Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? The best Samsung phones in 2023: our 8 favorite Galaxy handsets By Jesse Hollington and Bryan M. Wolfe Close Samsung is one of the most recognizable names in modern smartphones. It has a well-deserved reputation for offering an expansive lineup of great phones with something for just about everyone. This means if you're looking for an Android phone, you'll easily find a Samsung model that's worth considering based on your needs and budget. In fact, the number of choices can be a bit overwhelming, but the good news is that we've explored the entire range and highlighted the best Samsung smartphones you can buy in 2023.
Like its predecessor, the Samsung Galaxy S23 Ultra gets the nod for the best overall Samsung phone, and that's not just because it's Samsung's premium flagship device. Sure, it's the most expensive phone in the lineup, but you're getting some incredible bang for your buck with its large and gorgeous display, excellent cameras, and a new processor that offers unprecedented levels of performance. And if you're looking for something more unique, more pocketable, or more affordable, you'll find a lot of other great options on our list in every category, with links to detailed reviews for each.
Save on everything from laptops and tablets, to coffee makers and air purifiers, and a whole host of Apple tech like iPad, Apple Watch and even the latest M3 MacBooks, as well as smart home essentials like the Amazon Echo and smart bulbs.
More More More More More Joe Maring / Digital Trends Samsung Galaxy S23 Ultra Best Samsung phone overall Incredibly powerful processor Versatile telephoto zoom camera S Pen adds value Water-resistant and durable Long software update commitment Many interesting features to explore Large, bright, detailed screen Wired charging is complicated, and only 45W Big and heavy Why you should buy this: You get a substantial and incredibly well-built smartphone with a gorgeous screen, a top-of-the-line camera, and outstanding battery life.
Who it's for: Anybody looking for the most powerful Android phone on the market.
Why we picked the Samsung Galaxy S23 Ultra : The Galaxy S23 Ultra may be one of the most expensive phones you can buy, but it packs in enough power and features to make it well worth its price tag. In fact, it delivers incredible value despite its high price, since you're getting nearly everything you could want in a smartphone in a package that will serve you well for years to come.
The biggest thing that might dissuade you from picking up the Galaxy S23 Ultra is quite literally its biggest thing: at 9mm thick, 78mm wide, and 233 grams in weight, this is easily one of the largest smartphones out there. Still, it's in the same class as most other "max-sized" phones, so there's no reason to shy away unless you have especially small hands. The Galaxy S23 Ultra also makes up for that with its rounded edges and simple yet elegant styling.
On the front is a 6.8-inch Dynamic AMOLED display that offers QHD+ resolution with a very crisp density of 550 pixels per inch (ppi). The impressive size and clarity of this screen more than justify the larger phone, and it reaches a peak brightness of 1,750 nits, so you'll have no problem reading it clearly when outside on a bright sunny day.
As with its predecessor, the cameras on the Galaxy S23 Ultra are what really sets it apart from its smaller siblings, and this year you're getting a 200-megapixel (MP) main camera with Laser Auto Focus that's joined by a pair of 10MP telephoto cameras to offer both 3x and 10x optical zoom levels. The combined camera system allows for surprisingly good 30x and 100x digital zooms, offering the kind of advanced photography that simply isn't available on any other smartphone.
Samsung has also packed in its own take on the latest Qualcomm Snapdragon 8 Gen 2 chip.
 Rather than using an off-the-shelf version of this already-powerful processor, Samsung worked with Qualcomm to create a bespoke chip that's been boosted to new performance heights.
 To say there's performance to spare here is an understatement. The chip is also very efficient, delivering up to two days of battery life per charge.
Rounding out the package is Samsung's S Pen, which is included with the Galaxy S23 Ultra to let you jot down quick notes without even turning on the screen, annotate screenshots, or just scribble down shorthand just about anywhere on your phone. It's a great productivity tool, and you'll never have to worry about where to keep it as it tucks away in the bottom of your phone when you're not using it.
The Galaxy S23 Ultra retains its crown as not only the best Samsung phone to buy, but it is easily one of the best Android phones to get in 2023. It's extremely versatile with an established design that will appeal to nearly anyone who's willing to spend the money for top-notch performance in a phone that's about as future-proof as you can get.
Christine Romero-Chan / Digital Trends Samsung Galaxy S23 Best Samsung phone runner-up Sleek and compact design Comfortable for one-handed use Very fast performance Reliable cameras take great photos Long-lasting battery life Five years of guaranteed updates Base storage is still 128GB Fast charging up to only 25W Limited zoom quality past 10x Why you should buy this: It's a pocket-sized and powerful smartphone perfect for just about everyone.
Who it's for: Someone who wants a smaller Samsung phone, but doesn't want to compromise on specs.
Why we picked the Samsung Galaxy S23 : It's the smallest of the S23 range, but don't count it out for that reason. The Samsung Galaxy S23 is sleek, small, and incredibly powerful — making it the perfect runner-up and alternate option to the S23 Ultra above. While technically a downgrade from the Ultra model in a few select areas, the Galaxy S23 is still more than good enough to justify its inclusion here.
The Galaxy S23 has a rather different design from its larger sibling. The 6.1-inch display and slim bezels mean it's a much smaller device, and much more comfortable to hold as a result. The design is different, too, and includes a flat screen and more rounded corners. Aside from that, everything else involving the display is much the same as the more expensive phone, including the incredible Dynamic AMOLED 2X tech with a 120Hz refresh rate. It's the same stunning screen on a smaller frame, which is a big win for those who don't like massive phones.
The internal hardware is also very similar. The Snapdragon 8 Gen 2 for Galaxy processor is just as amazingly powerful as it is in the S23 Ultra, and the 8GB of RAM is the same amount as on the Ultra's base model. The base storage of 128GB is a bit disappointing, though unless you're a major app addict or media hog, you should be okay. The battery is solid, too, and is capable of lasting for two days with conservative use. Recharging is a bit disappointing at just 25W, but it's still speedy enough.
There's a 50MP main camera, a 12MP ultra-wide lens, and a 10MP telephoto lens with a 3x optical zoom. It's not the match of the S23 Ultra's 200MP-headed camera, but it's still a great shooter that takes solid shots across a wide range of lighting situations. It's a camera you'll be proud to use, and Samsung's post-processing makes the colors pop, even if it is unnatural.
The Samsung Galaxy S23 is the cheapest of Samsung's new flagship range and starts from $799. While you'll lose some elements of what makes the S23 Ultra unique, including the S Pen, those compromises don't massively impact the phone. That means it's still an amazing piece of tech, and a great choice if you want a small, but powerful, Samsung flagship.
More Joe Maring / Digital Trends Samsung Galaxy S23 Plus Best large Samsung phone Comfortable, practical design Beautiful AMOLED display Outstanding performance Storage starts at 256GB Two-day battery life 45W wired charging Bland camera design Only 3x optical zoom Awkward price Why you should buy this: The S23 Plus is a big phone with a lot of what makes the Ultra amazing, but at a cheaper price.
Who it's for: Someone who doesn't want the Ultra, but still wants a big, powerful Samsung flagship.
Why we picked the Samsung Galaxy S23 Plus : The S23 Ultra is a big and powerful flagship, but it's not for everyone. If you don't want or need everything the Ultra offers, then the Samsung Galaxy S23 Plus is an excellent alternative. This big-screened smartphone looks great, is just as powerful as its larger sibling, has an excellent camera, and lots more. If you're looking for a large Samsung phone, the Galaxy S23 Plus is a great choice for you.
The main reason you're likely to want a large phone is for a large screen, and the S23 Plus certainly delivers on that front. The 6.6-inch display has Samsung's Dynamic AMOLED 2X tech, so it has a 120Hz refresh rate for unbelievable smoothness, and a crisp 393 pixels-per-inch 1080p resolution, all protected by Gorilla Glass Victus 2. It's stunning, with rich colors, deep blacks, and a high refresh rate that makes using it feel like a dream.
That sort of performance wouldn't be possible without powerful specs, and the S23 Plus's specs are powerful indeed. It has the Snapdragon 8 Gen 2 processor, and it's just as powerful and capable as in other recent smartphones. The storage starts at 256GB as well, so the powerful processor and large amounts of storage mean this is a phone you can use for years before needing upgrading. That's reflected in Samsung's generous update schedule too, with the S23 Plus being guaranteed four years of major Android updates, and five years of security updates. That means you could still be getting Android updates up until Android 17 — and it's hard to argue against that sort of value.
The battery is strong and lasts a day and a half with regular use. Charging supports up to 45W charging, which is fast enough to recharge fully in about an hour, and it has reverse wireless charging for accessories, as well as normal wireless charging too. The camera doesn't have the 200MP sensor from the Ultra, but it's still impressive, with a 50MP main lens, a 12MP wide-angle lens, 10MP telephoto lens with 3x optical zoom, and a 12MP selfie lens around the front. It's a great camera, with all-around great performance, with nary a bad image taken. Edge detection is excellent, and so are night-mode photos. The biggest difference between this and the S23 Ultra's incredible camera is the zoom, and if that's important to you, you may want to think about paying the extra for the Ultra model. But even with that in mind, this is an excellent camera you won't regret using.
The Samsung Galaxy S23 Plus starts from $999, and it fully justifies that price tag. If you're looking for a Samsung flagship with a big, beautiful screen, at a lower price than the ultra-premium S23 Ultra, then the Samsung Galaxy S23 Plus is an excellent choice.
More Andy Boxall / Digital Trends Samsung Galaxy Z Fold 5 Best foldable Samsung phone Thinner and lighter than ever Silent, high-quality hinge Strong multitasking tools Fun, social media-friendly camera Inner screen is perfect for games and video IPX8 and durable chassis Battery life hasn't dramatically improved Slow charging Why you should buy this: The Galaxy Z Fold 5 is a productivity buff's dream, with its dual display, up to 1TB of storage, and robust, yet light Armor Aluminum frame.
Who it's for: Anybody who wants a productivity punch and top-notch specs bundled into a foldable format.
Why we picked the Samsung Galaxy Z Fold 5 : The Galaxy Z Fold 5 is the best Samsung phone for productivity, with a foldable form factor and dual screens. It comes in Phantom Black, Cream, Icy Blue, or the Samsung-exclusive Gray or Blue colors. The front display measures 6.2 inches, while the main display measures 7.6 inches. Both screens offer a 120Hz variable refresh rate depending on the task at hand. The phone also features a side-mounted fingerprint scanner and an Armor Aluminum frame with Gorilla Glass Victus 2 on the cover screen and back.
With the Z Fold 5, you get the Snapdragon 8 Gen 2 chip in both the U.S. and the U.K. It has 12GB RAM and up to 1TB of onboard storage, but no microSD card slot. The 4,400mAh battery is similar to the Z Fold 4, but Samsung promises a little bit more juice this time around. It should last most days with plenty of charge. There's up to 25W wired charging and 15W wireless charging, but no charger in the box.
The Z Fold 5 features a 50MP main camera, a 12MP wide-angle lens, and a 10MP telephoto lens with 3x optical zoom, as well as a 4MP Under Display Camera. It's not a camera system that'll dethrone the Galaxy S23 Ultra's, but it's still very, very good.
The Galaxy Z Fold 5's standout feature is its productivity capability. It supports the S Pen, but lacks a storage slot, though a case with built-in storage can be purchased. The device runs Android 13 with Samsung’s One UI 5.1.1, which includes an improved Taskbar that now displays up to four recent apps instead of two. The Taskbar is particularly useful for multitasking on the Z Fold 5, allowing users to drag apps onto the main screen.
You can use up to three apps on the unfolded screen and add a fourth app as a floating window. You can also easily alter the shape and size of each app window and activate multitasking. The Galaxy Z Fold 5 also supports Samsung's DeX mode, which turns your smartphone into a desktop computer and provides access to Microsoft's Xbox Games Pass. The phone also comes with 5G connectivity and will receive four Android OS updates and five years of security updates, ensuring longevity.
More Joe Maring / Digital Trends Samsung Galaxy Z Flip 5 Best flip phone Samsung phone No more gap when folded shut Extremely well-built Hinge feels outstanding Much more useful cover screen Fantastic performance Good and dependable cameras 5 years of updates The crease is still there Mediocre battery life Cover screen requires lots of tweaking Why you should buy this: If you’re in the market for a $1,000 folding phone right now, the Samsung Galaxy Z Flip 5 is the one you should buy.
Who it's for: Those who simply must have the latest and most popular foldable.
Why we picked the Samsung Galaxy Z Flip 5 : There are several reasons why tech enthusiasts are buzzing about Samsung's latest folding phone, the Galaxy Z Flip 5. For starters, it boasts an improved camera, a sturdier hinge construction, a newer and faster processor, and extended software support. On top of that, it features an overall sleek and elegant build that's sure to turn heads.
When you flip the phone open, you'll see a 6.7-inch AMOLED 2X display with a 2640 x 1080 resolution and variable refresh rate of 1Hz to 120Hz. The cover screen is a 3.4-inch Super AMOLED that's much more useful than previous models — it even allows you to run full Android apps.
The Z Flip 5 is powered by Qualcomm's Snapdragon 8 Gen 2 processor and comes with up to 512GB internal storage and 8GB of RAM. It is incredibly fast, breezing through every task with ease. The processor, combined with the variable refresh rate, ensures that everything is super smooth.
Just like the Galaxy Z Flip 4, the Galaxy Z Flip 5 has a 3,700 mAh battery to keep it going throughout the day. Also just like on the Flip 4, that translates to pretty mediocre battery life.
The camera system on this year's Z Flip features a 12MP main camera with f/1.8 aperture and optical image stabilization, a 12MP ultrawide camera with a 123-degree field of view, and a 10MP selfie camera on the main display. It's nearly identical to last year's model.
To Samsung’s credit, the Z Flip 5 does feature upgrades to its cameras. The Snapdragon 8 Gen 2’s improved image signal processor provides better color reproduction, while the main and ultrawide cameras have a new "clear lens coating" to prevent lens flares. The selfie camera now has an f/2.2 aperture, compared to the previous f/2.4 on the Z Flip 4.
More Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Samsung Galaxy A54 Best value Samsung phone Eye-catching colors It looks like the Galaxy S23 Colorful screen Speakers sound good Long software commitment Battery doesn't last two days No wireless charging Camera lacks realism Why you should buy this: It costs significantly less than the Galaxy S23 while still delivering a lovely display, decent cameras, and good performance.
Who it's for: Anybody who wants a dependable smartphone for under $500.
Why we picked the Samsung Galaxy A54 : Samsung's Galaxy S23 series is outstanding, as are its folding phones. But the truth is that a lot of people can't afford those expensive handsets — and that's why the Galaxy A54 is so important. You get many of the same features found on Samsung's more expensive phones at a fraction of the price.
For starters, the Galaxy A54 looks a lot like the more expensive Galaxy S23 it's imitating. The frame is plastic instead of aluminum, but the A54 is comfortable to hold and looks incredible thanks to its Awesome Violet and Awesome Lime colors. You also get an IP67 rating to safeguard it from dust and water.
The front of the phone is taken up by a 6.4-inch AMOLED display that delivers crisp text and strong, vibrant colors. Even more impressive is the 120Hz refresh rate, which allows everything to feel fast and smooth. This is also helped by the reliable Exynos 1380 processor and up to 8GB of RAM. The Galaxy A54 isn't the fastest phone you'll ever use, but it's more than capable for anything you'd want to throw at it.
What about the cameras? The 50MP main camera isn't the best we've ever seen, but for quick and casual photography, it gets the job done. It also tends to produce very bright and overly saturated photos, more so than its S23 cousins. Does that mean pictures look lifelike and 1:1 accurate to the real world? Not exactly. But if you prefer your photos to have a real punch to them, the Galaxy A54 certainly delivers.
If you have more money to burn, a phone like the Galaxy S23 or Galaxy S23 Plus is going to deliver a better experience in every department. However, if $450 is the most you can spend, you'll find very little to be disappointed about with the Galaxy A54.
More Christine Romero-Chan / Digital Trends Samsung Galaxy A14 5G Best cheap Samsung phone Only $200 Large display with a 90Hz refresh rate 5,000mAh battery 50MP rear camera, 13MP selfie camera Respectable performance Unique, textured back Secondary cameras aren't impressive No water or dust resistance Fast charging up to 15W only Why you should buy this: It has no business being this good when it costs just $200.
Who it's for: Anyone looking for a Samsung phone that doesn't break the bank but still performs very well.
Why we picked the Samsung Galaxy A14 5G : The $200 phone market is usually where you'll find phones full of compromises. A low price often means harsh cost-cutting, and as a result, you're unlikely to find something that can be described as "good". That's not the case with the Samsung Galaxy A14 5G, which is a true diamond in the rough.
You'll struggle to define the A14 as a stunner, but it's not a bad-looking smartphone. The body is made from plastic, but it has a unique texture that feels good and adds grip, something glass-bodied phones can struggle with. The display is worth pausing over, though. It's a 6.6-inch LCD with a 1080p resolution, which isn't bad by itself — but the inclusion of a 120Hz refresh rate definitely pushes this phone into a higher grade. There isn't any water resistance, but hey, you can't have everything, especially at this price.
It's modestly powered by a MediaTek Dimensity 700 processor, the same chip from the A13. We found it stuttered a little during use, which reduced the smoothness of the 120Hz refresh rate, and it was sometimes sluggish to open apps, so make sure to clear out those running apps once in a while to keep it speedy. Storage starts from 64GB, which is relatively low these days, but there's the option to use a microSD card to expand that by 1TB. It comes with Android 13, and Samsung has committed to two major Android updates and four years of security updates — a strong promise for a budget smartphone.
The main camera is impressive for a $200 smartphone. The main lens has a 50MP sensor, and it consistently took good, crisp images that are more than good enough for social media. Surprisingly for a cheap phone, it even takes clear night mode shots too. The second lens, a 2MP depth sensor, is there to assist the main camera in portrait shots, so it's really technically a dual-lens system. Unfortunately, the third lens, a 2MP macro lens, continues the strong tradition of macro lenses being a bit rubbish, and it's not one to rely on at all. Stick with the 50MP main lens instead, you'll probably be pleasantly surprised by how good your shots are for a $200 smartphone.
The A14 has a 5,000mAh battery, and it's capable of going for two days on a single charge. That's helpful, as the charging rate is limited to 15W, so you'll be wanting to leave it for a little while when charging. There's no wireless charging, which makes sense on a phone this cheap.
The Samsung Galaxy A14 5G is available now, with prices starting from $200. As always, keep an eye on the sales, and you could snag this excellent phone for even cheaper. It's available on all major U.S. carriers, though the U.S. only gets the rather boring plain black color.
Samsung Samsung Galaxy XCover6 Pro Best rugged Samsung phone Rugged phone withstands drops up to 5 feet IP68 rating Replaceable battery MIL-STD-810 certified Expandable storage Rugged style might not be for everyone No satellite connectivity Why you should buy this: It's a rugged, military-grade phone with an IP68 rating against sand, water, dust, and dirt that can withstand falls up to 5 feet — and it boasts a replaceable 4,050mAh battery.
Who it's for: Those who want a rugged phone for outdoor adventures or work in the field.
Why we picked the Samsung Galaxy XCover6 Pro: Although it's designed for industrial use, the Samsung Galaxy XCover6 Pro is a great choice for anybody who's tough on their phone. It can withstand falls up to five feet, has an IP68 rating, making it resistant to dirt, dust, water, and sand, and is MIL-STD-810 certified, meaning it won't pack up at high altitudes or in hot conditions. There's more to this phone than its rugged features, though — it boasts a 6.6-inch 1080p edge-to-edge display with Gorilla Glass Victus+ and a Snapdragon 778G octa-core processor with 6GB of RAM and 128GB of internal storage (that can be upgraded with a microSD card). The screen boasts Enhanced Touch capabilities so that you can use it with wet hands or gloves, and the phone runs Android 12. There's also both 5G and Wi-Fi 6E support, although Samsung hasn't thrown in any emergency satellite connectivity features yet.
Its best feature is its replaceable 4,050mAh battery that supports 15W fast charging and can be swapped out, not to mention the pogo pin connectors for docked charging or connecting accessories like scanners and card readers — the XCover Pro is EMV Level 1 certified, so you can also use it as a point-of-sale terminal.
There are two cameras on the back — a main 50MP camera and a secondary 8MP ultrawide one — plus a 13MP front-facing camera and a headphone jack, so you don't need to worry about losing your wireless earbuds at work. You can pick up the XCover6 Pro for $600 on Amazon right now.
Editors' Recommendations The best Samsung Galaxy S23 Plus cases: 21 you can’t ignore There are early Black Friday deals on the Samsung Galaxy Z Fold 5 The best phone plans for one person in 2023: our 6 favorites The best Android phones in 2023: the 16 best ones you can buy The best folding phones in 2023: the 6 best you can buy Best Products Samsung Samsung Galaxy Unpacked 2023 Mobile Waiting on an iPhone upgrade? Now is the time to pounce, as the newest additions to Apple's legendary roster were confirmed at its September 2023 event. The belles of the ball this year have to be the upgraded iPhone 15 and iPhone 15 Plus models, which have finally received the design update the iPhone 14 Pro and iPhone 14 Pro Max received last year. Now equipped with the Dynamic Island across the hole-punch selfie camera, the gulf between the iPhone and iPhone Pro has lessened again.
If you're eagerly awaiting your upgrade, or if this is your first iPhone, you'll be wanting to keep it safe. Smartphones tend to be with us throughout our day, and that means they can fall prey to any one of a number of hazards. Bumps, drops, even scratches from sharing your pocket with keys or coins; the list is near endless. The last thing you want is for your new phone to end up scratched, chipped, or even completely broken. Thankfully, a good protective case can stop that from happening. Here are some of the best Apple iPhone 15 cases you can buy right now.
Mobile With the release of the Samsung Galaxy S23 series of smartphones earlier this year, shoppers have been waiting for the Samsung Galaxy S22 series to appear in phone deals with huge discounts. If you've had an eye on the Samsung Galaxy S22+, don't miss this chance to get an unlocked 128GB version for just $439 following a $369 discount from Walmart on its sticker price of $808. We're not sure how much time remains on this bargain, but you should hurry with your purchase because we think stocks will sell out quickly.
Why you should buy the Samsung Galaxy S22+ The Samsung Galaxy S22+, the predecessor of the Samsung Galaxy S23+, offers smooth performance even when you're multitasking between apps with its Qualcomm SM8450 Snapdragon 8 Gen 1 processor and 8GB of RAM. The smartphone is equipped with an impressive camera system composed of a 50MP wide, 12MP ultrawide, and 10MP telephoto at the back, and a 10MP selfie camera at the front. The Samsung Galaxy S22+ also comes with an IP68 rating for water resistance, and Android 13 with Samsung's OneUI 5 out of the box.
Mobile Apple raised the bar again at its latest fall event. The iPhone 15 Pro and iPhone 15 Pro Max are the two new top ways to experience Apple's smartphone world. These are the greatest iPhones available, with all of the new features and — excitingly for anyone who travels with a laptop or iPad — a USB-C port at the bottom. The iPhone 15 Pro is the phone to get if you want strong performance paired with a more manageable 6.1-inch display, and many would argue it's the perfect blend of size and power.
The iPhone 15 Pro is easier to handle than the iPhone 15 Pro Max. However, it’s crucial to protect your device from accidental drops and scratches, especially since it is an expensive phone that costs $1,000. Luckily, you can easily safeguard your investment by using a protective case that can withstand the usual hazards of daily use, such as bumps and scratches. We offer a wide range of case options to choose from, including slim cases and rugged cases for maximum protection. Take a look, and you’re sure to find something you’ll love.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
