Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Web Features How ‘The Last Stargazers’ are changing astronomy By Jenny McGrath Close In Lauren Gunderson’s play Silent Sky , Victorian era astronomer Henrietta Leavitt calls Radcliffe College “basically Harvard in skirts,” and also proclaims: “Lucky for us, the universe doesn’t much care what you wear.” You don’t have to tell astronomer Dr. Emily Levesque. She’s researched red supergiants — enormous, dying stars — in flannel pajama pants and penguin T-shirts from a control room or her cousin’s kitchen table. In her new book, The Last Stargazers: The Enduring Story of Astronomy’s Vanishing Explorers , Levesque tells the stories of the humans behind the telescopes. “I think it’s really important for people to recognize that science is done by people,” she told Digital Trends.
A post shared by The Last Stargazers (@thelaststargazers) Astropsychology: How to stay sane on Mars SpaceX expands Starlink internet service. Here’s how to pre-order How astronomers study dark matter, the most mysterious substance in the universe Astronomy has changed a lot since Henrietta Leavitt’s days, when astronomers captured celestial objects on glass plates.
 Now Levesque might wake up to an email with all her data waiting, thanks to what’s known as “queue observing.” With this method, astronomers map out exact plans for what they want a telescope pointed at and for how long, then hand them off to the observatory. A telescope operator still needs to be present, but the astronomer might be halfway across the planet. “It’s a really exciting time for the science,” she said. “It enables us to do all this really cool new stuff, but it does mean that where we are in the process is changing.” To explain how different an astronomer’s job looks today from just a few decades ago, Levesque highlights some memorable stories from her colleagues, like how they used to wear flight suits to stay warm in observatories’ chilly domes. In 1980, Doug Geisler lost six hours of observing time when Mount St. Helens erupted. In his notes, he recorded the reason as “Volcano (good excuse, huh?).” “They did it in spite of all these extra hurdles that the sexism of the time had placed in front of them.” But astronomers’ trials aren’t all mischievous moths (they find their way into telescopes quite frequently) and the occasional scorpion (observatories are often found in deserts, due to their remoteness and weather conditions). Levesque writes about the women that came in between Leavitt’s career and hers, and the challenges they faced.
Because observatories are often far from civilization and astronomers work at night, the facilities will often include dorms. Up until the mid-1960s, women weren’t officially allowed to stay at the ones at California’s Mount Wilson and Palomar observatories. Astronomers called the dorms “the Monastery.” In the late 1940s, Barbara Cherry Schwarzschild worked alongside her astrophysicist husband, Martin. It was Barbara who knew the ins and outs of the telescope, Levesque said. In the 1950s and ’60s, Margaret Burbidge and Elizabeth Griffin also took advantage of their husbands’ telescope time.
A post shared by The Last Stargazers (@thelaststargazers) “I wanted to tell their stories just because they’re brilliant scientists, and the observing that they did was really fascinating,” said Levesque. “And they did it in spite of all these extra hurdles that the sexism of the time had placed in front of them. And those hurdles may be different today, but they’re also not gone.” It was the sight of another female astronomer , Heidi Hammel, that cemented Levesque’s interest in the stars at an early age. In 1994, Hammel and her fellow scientists were gathered at a computer, looking at an image from the Hubble Space Telescope of a comet that had smacked into Jupiter. “The thing that got me about seeing Heidi Hammel and all of the other astronomers studying Shoemaker-Levy 9 was they seemed so happy,” said Levesque. At the time, when her classmates were teasing her for her love of science, Levesque was wondering if anyone else was as excited about it as she was. She had her answer.
Jupiter in infrared, Shoemaker–Levy 9 collision Max Planck Institute for Astronomy It’s reminiscent of a more recent image of a different woman looking at another object. Computer scientist Katie Bouman created an algorithm that helped capture the first image of a black hole.
 Her excitement, too, is written on her face.
 “I hope that made a big impression on a lot of young kids that seeing the comet impact on Jupiter made on me, because it made you look at science as a fun and enjoyable place to be,” said Levesque.
Even with robotic telescopes and remote observation, she said there’s still a place for people and their passion for the night sky. “There’s a love of astronomy and a love of science that you get from being a human stargazer that I think drives a lot of the really awesome tech innovation and automation that we do,” she said.
Levesque hopes her book reminds readers that scientists are first and foremost people, who actually do come down from their towers and live real lives. “I know that we’re in a funny time when it comes to trust of scientists and trust of experts,” she said. That’s why she wanted to show what actually happens inside the observatories, the good, the bad, and the messy. “I think it helps with recognizing everybody’s humanity,” she said, “and it helps with understanding why we do it, what we do, and where our expertise comes from.” Editors' Recommendations SpaceX reaches 100K Starlink customers. Here’s how to sign up Artificial atmospheres: How we’ll build a base with breathable air on Mars Martian dust is a big problem for astronauts. Here’s how NASA fights it How NASA’s top illustrators use data to draw invisible interstellar objects How the next generation of space telescopes will hunt for habitable exoplanets Features Women With Byte Web Elon Musk may be the perfect example of the saying “Never meet your heroes” -- but there are admirers willing to risk it. And what better day than on his birthday to try? Over the past few years, Musk, whose birthday is Sunday, June 28, has built up a reputation for himself, not only as an eccentric chief executive, tech giant, and billionaire, but also as a famed internet personality -- one who is both revered and despised. His likeness has been used in viral memes (take for example the one where he smokes a blunt with Joe Rogan), and that kind of currency in today’s online culture is priceless. In May, after the birth of his seventh child, the internet seemingly exploded trying to figure out how to pronounce the baby's unusual name.
Web When NASA's Perseverance rover launches this summer, it will face one of the most ambitious missions in any space exploration project to date: To search for evidence of life on Mars. If there ever was life on Mars, there almost certainly isn't now -- so how do you go about hunting for evidence of something billions of years old on another planet? The answer involves the heaviest rover ever sent to another planet, a dried-up lake bed that is millions of years old, and a superpowered laser that vaporizes samples from 20 feet away. We spoke to two NASA Mars experts to find out more.
A brief history of Mars Desert ‘Rover’ Helps NASA Scientists Prepare for Mars Web In humanity's quest to explore Mars, getting there is only half of the battle. To keep astronauts safe while they explore the planet, we'll need sophisticated habitats, life support systems, and communications. We'll also need a new type of spacesuit.
To understand the challenges of building a suit that can withstand the Martian environment and to learn what steps engineers are already taking to address these challenges, we spoke to two NASA engineers about what it takes to make such a spacesuit.
Parts of a spacesuit Designing a spacesuit is no easy feat, explained Kristine Davis, a spacesuit engineer at NASA's Johnson Space Center who works on the pressure garment systems team for NASA's latest spacesuit design, the xEMU or Exploration Extravehicular Mobility Unit.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
