Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending in Computing: Best Dell Laptops ChatGPT Best Monitors Asus ROG Azoth Review How to delete a page in Word in 3 easy steps RTX 4080 vs RTX 4070 Ti Best Mac Apps AMD vs Intel Recall an Email in Outlook Home Computing Guides How to clear your printer queue on Windows and Mac By Alan Truly Close Clearing the printer queue on a Windows PC or a Mac is a simple task that can help get rid of old documents that didn’t print for some reason. Those pending documents in the queue cause problems even if you've refilled paper and taken care of other printer issues.
Find the Windows printer queue Find Windows printer queue with the notification Find Windows printer queue with the Notification center Find Windows printer queue with the Settings app Clear the Windows printer queue Find the Mac's printer queue Find the Mac's printer queue with the dock icon Find the Mac's printer queue with System Settings Clear the Mac printer queue Why is it called a queue and how do documents get stuck? Difficulty Duration What You Need A computer or laptop A printer Even the best printers can have temporary glitches that result in a document becoming stuck in the printer queue. This is usually an easy problem to clear up. The only trick is knowing where to find the right controls so you can get back to enjoying your color printer or finish the print job you’re waiting for.
Find the Windows printer queue On a Windows PC, there are three easy ways to open the printer queue and clear up documents that won’t print: Find Windows printer queue with the printer notification.
Find Windows printer queue with the Notification center.
Find Windows printer queue with the Settings app.
Find Windows printer queue with the notification You might see a notification of a printer error pop up at the bottom right of the screen after you try to print. That makes it very easy to open the queue.
Select the notification to open the printer queue and show the list of documents for the printer that had an error.
Select the Windows printer error notification to open the queue.
Digital Trends Find Windows printer queue with the Notification center If you saw the notification, but it disappeared before you selected it, you can get to it again in the Windows Notifications center. Select the time in the system tray and scroll through notifications to find the printer error and choose it to open the printer queue.
Windows Notifications center shows a printer error.
Digital Trends Find Windows printer queue with the Settings app If your printer isn’t working and you suspect the problem is with documents stuck in the printer queue, you can check via the Settings app.
Step 1: Open the Windows Settings app, choose the Bluetooth & devices tab from the left sidebar, then select Printers & scanners at the right.
In Windows Settings, open Printer options.
Digital Trends Step 2: In the Printers & scanners section, scroll to find the printer that’s not working or the one you suspect has a queue problem.
In Windows Settings, choose the printer you want to use.
Digital Trends What does printer spooling mean, and how to fix it on Windows and Mac How to find your computer specs on Windows 11 Here’s how to combine PDF files the easy way Step 3: In that printer’s settings, select Open print queue.
In Windows Settings, Open the print queue.
Digital Trends Clear the Windows printer queue Once you’ve got the printer queue open, you’ll see any documents with errors. The next step is to clear those old errors so your computer can send current jobs to the printer.
Step 1: If you don’t see any printer errors or documents that are pending, select the Printers menu at the top left, then check the box beside any printers of which you’d like to see the queue.
Windows Print Queue Printers menu lets you select which queues you want.
Digital Trends Step 2: To clear the documents you see, select the ellipsis “…” to see more options.
Select the ellipsis to see Windows Print Queue options.
Digital Trends Step 3: Then choose Cancel all to delete all the print jobs that could clog up your printer queue.
Windows Print Queue has a Cancel all option to clear print jobs.
Digital Trends Find the Mac's printer queue On a Mac, you’ll see printer errors in the dock, but there’s another way to open the printer queue and double-check to see if there are any lingering issues that explain why your printer isn’t working as expected.
There are two convenient ways to find the queue: 1. Find the Mac's printer queue with the dock icon. 2. Find the Mac's printer queue with System Settings.
Find the Mac's printer queue with the dock icon If you just tried to print a document or a photo and your printer isn’t working, you should see an icon for that printer in the dock.
Step 1: It should appear at the bottom right unless you've changed the default position for the dock.
The Mac shows a printer icon in the dock when there's a problem.
Digital Trends Step 2: Select the printer icon to open that printer’s queue.
Selecting the dock icon will open that printer's queueSelecting the dock icon will open that printer's queue.
Digital Trends Step 3: If you see more than one printer icon, you can open each printer’s queue separately.
The Mac shows each printer queue as a dock icon.
Digital Trends Find the Mac's printer queue with System Settings Another way to find the Mac’s printer queue is by using the System Settings app.
Step 1: Scroll the left sidebar to the bottom or type “printers” in the search box at the top left and select the Printers & Settings tab.
Select Printers & Scanners from System Settings.
Digital Trends Step 2: Choose the printer with the issue from the list on the right.
Choose the problematic printer in System Settings.j Digital Trends Step 3: In the windows that opens, select the Printer Queue button at the top right to see any print jobs that are stuck.
Select the Printer Queue button to see jobs.
Digital Trends Clear the Mac printer queue If you have documents remaining in the printer queue, you must clear them before you can print.
Step 1: Any documents that are pending will appear in the list. Select the button that looks like an X beside each print job that you want to delete.
Select the X button to delete print jobs.
Digital Trends Step 2: You might find more than one job that is waiting. Clear any or all of these backed-up documents until you resolve the problem with printing, or all jobs are gone.
You might need to cancel multiple print jobs that are pending.
Digital Trends Why is it called a queue and how do documents get stuck? A queue is a computer term for a list of items arranged by the date and time of arrival. The oldest item is first in line. It’s also a word that's more common in the U.K., which refers to waiting in a line.
Print jobs get stuck in a queue when something has gone wrong with the printer. That means clearing the queue might not resolve the problem if the original issue persists.
It might be as simple as your Wi-Fi connection dropping for a moment. If this happens too frequently, it might be time to upgrade your network’s router.
While the best printers have long-lasting supplies of ink and toner , running out of paper, ink, or toner could be the reason you can’t print. Cable connections can also wear over time, so a new Ethernet cable might help.
Whatever the cause, you might need to fix your printer trouble , as well as clear the queue before you can continue printing.
Clearing your printer queue is one of those little details you might not think of if you’re focused on dealing with a hardware problem. After taking care of paper, ink, and checking that your connectivity is good, clearing the printer queue might be the final step needed to get your printer working again.
Editors' Recommendations How to dispose of a printer in the most environmentally safe way possible How to use a blue light filter on your PC or Mac How Nvidia and AMD could make Windows laptops feel like MacBooks How to keep your MacBook from sleeping I love Macs. But here are 5 reasons I keep coming back to Windows How-To Guides Computing If you're fed up with us reminding you to use a password manager to remember all your passwords (that you definitely aren't reusing), passkeys could be a great alternative to boosting your security. They let you ditch passwords entirely for a brand of two-factor-authentication that's more secure and more convenient than unique passwords have ever been.
Passkeys are a way to use your phone or another device as a way to securely login to different sites and services. It's something you've been able to use on your phone for a while now, but Passkeys are now a part of Windows 11's 22H2 build (and its upcoming 23H2), and you can start using them right now.
Computing Apple's macOS Sonoma (also known as macOS 14) has a bunch of exciting new features, including game mode, desktop widgets, and a new presenter mode for video calls. Is your Mac ready for it? If so, you'll want to download it as soon as possible to take advantage of all the new features and security enhancements. Make sure you back up your most important information before you do, but once you're ready, here's how to download macOS 14.
Computing Learning how to check your Mac's temperature can be a great step in extending the life of your computer, particularly if you're using an older Intel-based model. So far, Apple Silicon Mac and MacBook computers tend to run cool enough that overheating isn't a major concern. At the same time, it can be quite satisfying to check out exactly how well your new Mac keeps its cool.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
