Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending in Computing: Best Dell Laptops ChatGPT Best Monitors Asus ROG Azoth Review How to delete a page in Word in 3 easy steps RTX 4080 vs RTX 4070 Ti Best Mac Apps AMD vs Intel Recall an Email in Outlook Home Computing Guides How to find your printer IP address and WPS PIN By Alan Truly Close Sometimes, you need your printer's IP address or WPS PIN to set up and manage it. That information can help with Wi-Fi connections. Whether you have an HP, Epson, Canon, or Brother printer, we'll show you how to find the IP address and WPS PIN so you can solve any wireless network issues.
How to find your printer's IP address on Windows How to find your printer's IP address on a Mac Find your printer's IP address from the mobile app Find the IP address on your printer's display How to find your printer's WPS PIN Troubleshooting WPS dangers That information might be buried deep within menu settings, even when you buy the best printers.
Difficulty Duration An IP address is a group of four numbers separated by periods that allows wireless access to your printer's settings and information via a web browser. A WPS PIN (Wi-Fi Protected Setup) is an eight-digit number that lets you connect your printer to the Wi-Fi network without a password.
There's more than one way to find your printer's network details, and the methods vary even with printers from the same manufacturer. We'll cover the best places to check and what to look for to find the information you need.
How to find your printer's IP address on Windows It's easy to get the IP address of your printer on a Windows PC if you know where to look. The information is buried deep within Settings.
Step 1: Press the Windows-I key combination to open Settings.
 Select the Bluetooth & devices tab, then Printers & scanners.
Digital Trends Step 2: Select Device information in the More information section to reveal details about that printer. Look at the clickable link labeled Webpage.
 If you see something that looks like an IP number, write that group of numbers down. For example, "192.168.2.175" is an IP address. It's common for a printer IP address to start with "192.168.2", but sometimes it's different.
Digital Trends Wi-Fi not working? How to fix the most common problems How to find a Wi-Fi password on Mac How to fix slow upload speeds Step 3: If the Webpage looks different, click the link to open the printer's server page in a web browser. Find your printer's IP address in the Network section of printer settings. You might have to log in first and browse around a bit to find the right subsection.
Digital Trends How to find your printer's IP address on a Mac On a Mac, you can find printer details in System Settings.
Step 1: Open the Apple menu and select System Settings , then scroll down and choose Printers & Scanners from the sidebar.
Digital Trends Step 2: Select the printer you want from the list, then choose Options & Supplies to see more details.
Digital Trends Step 3: If you don't see your printer's IP address , select Show Printer Web Page.
Digital Trends Step 4: A new tab will open in Safari and you can browse your printer's web server to find Network and the IP address.
Digital Trends Find your printer's IP address from the mobile app Most printer manufacturers provide printer details in the mobile app.
Step 1: Open the app, tap on the printer you want, then select Printer information or Network or browse connected printers to see more data.
Digital Trends Step 2: Browse around through this information and look for your printer's IP address. It might be labeled IP address or you might see a group of four numbers like "192.168.2.194" to write down.
Digital Trends Find the IP address on your printer's display You can find the IP address within network settings in your printer's menu system. Sometimes, navigating on a small screen is awkward, but you can locate this data with patience and determination.
Step 1: Page through the options in your printer's menu system. Look for options like Network , Connectivity , Wireless , Web services , Wi-Fi , or WLAN section.
Digital Trends Step 2: Somewhere in those settings, you'll find a TCP/IP section or a group of four numbers labeled IP or IP address.
 For example, "192.168.2.194" is an IP address.
Digital Trends How to find your printer's WPS PIN The WPS PIN to connect your printer is usually in the same settings section as the IP address. See the section above about locating the IP address on your printer's display. The same tips will help you find the WPS PIN.
Digital Trends Troubleshooting If you can't find your printer's IP address or WPS PIN, double-check that you have a wireless printer. You can look in the manual or search the internet using the model number. Some printers require a direct Ethernet or USB cable connection to a computer or router.
Even if your printer has Wi-Fi connectivity, it might not support WPS. Some printers have a WPS button. Check the manual or try an internet search to find out the specific wireless features of your printer.
Our printer troubleshooting guide might help you resolve the problem.
WPS dangers Contrary to the name, Wi-Fi Protected Setup (WPS) is less secure than the standard password-protected Wi-Fi. An eight-digit PIN is much easier for hackers to crack than Wi-Fi passwords, which can be longer and use letters, numbers, and symbols.
If you have the option of connecting via Wi-Fi, use that instead of WPS. Security experts recommend disabling WPS on your router if you don't need it.
With your IP address, you can access printer settings in a web browser, check ink or toner levels, and update firmware.
WPS has less value and is a bit of a relic of older Wi-Fi technology. It can be more convenient than passwords if your printer has a WPS button to simplify connecting. However, using a phone and the printer's mobile app is usually even simpler. WPS PINs aren't secure, and it's best to avoid using this connection method if possible.
If you still have trouble finding the network information you need after reading this guide, reach out to your printer manufacturer for help.
Editors' Recommendations What does printer spooling mean, and how to fix it on Windows and Mac How to clear your printer queue on Windows and Mac How smart light bulbs could steal your password How to extend your Wi-Fi range with another router How to tell if someone is stealing your Wi-Fi — and what you can do about it How-To Guides Computing A router Wi-Fi password should hit the sweet spot between being secure enough to offer protection, and being easy enough to remember and share with family or friends. To help stay safe and keep out unwanted guests, a good Wi-Fi password should include upper and lowercase letters, numbers, and ideally, special characters too.
If it’s time for a quick update to your old Wi-Fi password, our guide will show you just how to do it.
Computing If your current Wi-Fi connection isn’t strong enough to support your growing number of devices, you might be on the lookout for a better solution. Perhaps you’re experiencing frequent connection errors, slowdowns, and other technical difficulties. Wi-Fi 6 can offer a faster, more reliable connection.
We’ll talk more about this next-generation standard in Wi-Fi technology, tell you what it has to offer, and give you tips on determining what devices are compatible with Wi-Fi 6.
The dawn of generational Wi-Fi labels The Wi-Fi Alliance is the organization in charge of deciding, developing, and designating Wi-Fi standards. As devices become more complex and internet connections evolve, the process of delivering wireless connections also changes. That means that Wi-Fi standards -- the technical specifications that manufacturers use to create Wi-Fi -- need to be periodically updated so that new technology can flourish and everything can remain compatible. So far, so good.
Computing Whatever you need to print, there’s a home printer that can do it. But knowing how to choose a printer isn't always easy, given the sheer number of options on the market. To help, we’ve put together a quick-and-dirty buying guide for selecting a home printer, with simple explanations of some of the most common terms, plus recommendations that will serve the majority of buyers.
Inkjet or laser? The first question all printer buyers must tackle comes down to a simple matter of what and how much you plan on printing. Inkjet printers use cartridges of ink that are applied wet to paper and rapidly dry, while laser printers use toner, a type of ink dust that bonds to paper for fast results and efficient resource use.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
