Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending in Computing: Best Dell Laptops ChatGPT Best Monitors Asus ROG Azoth Review How to delete a page in Word in 3 easy steps RTX 4080 vs RTX 4070 Ti Best Mac Apps AMD vs Intel Recall an Email in Outlook Home Computing News Lenovo’s Legion Glasses promise big-screen gaming wherever you are By Alan Truly Close A person plays a game on Lenovo Legion Go while looking up at a virtual screen with Legion Glasses on.
Lenovo Lenovo’s new Legion Go handheld gaming computer has a built-in 8.8-inch screen, which is great for a pocketable device. But if you want more, you can supersize that to TV dimensions without sacrificing portability, thanks to the new Legion Glasses.
Legion Glasses have stylish frames and tinted lenses, resembling sunglasses. Hidden behind the shades are micro-OLED displays that provide 1920×1080 pixels per eye, so you get full-HD gaming on a large virtual screen in a compact, foldable form factor.
The earpieces have built-in speakers, so the Legion Go and Glasses are all you need for handheld gaming with big-screen enjoyment. While the attached 1.2m (3.9ft) USB-C cable is unusual, it eliminates the frustration of forgetting to bring the right cable.
Lenovo’s Legion Glasses can also connect to laptops , computers, tablets, and phones that support USB-C Alt mode. Many Windows laptops, MacBooks, and iPads with USB-C ports, as well as Android phones, are compatible.
Two adjustable nose pads and an anti-slip adapter should help with comfort. Lenovo includes a lens frame to hold prescription lenses.
Lenovo Lenovo Legion Go paired with Legion Glasses sounds like an interesting combination. We’ll need to get some time with Lenovo’s solution to know how these compare to other popular smart glasses.
The Legion Glasses weigh 142g (5oz), field of view is 38 degrees, providing a density of 58 pixels per degree (PPD). The brightness of the display hasn’t been announced yet. We do know, however, that the glasses will be available in October, starting at $329.
For smart glasses, an ideal device must be affordable, lightweight, and contain a bright display with a wide field of view. For example, the market-leading Xreal Air smart glasses cost about $400, weigh 75 grams, and have a 400-nit display with a 45-degree field of view.
A heavier device will put pressure on the nose, a dimmer display will look translucent in a bright room, and a narrow field of view results in a smaller virtual screen.
If Lenovo’s Legion Glasses are similar to the Lenovo Glasses T1 we reviewed last year, they should be a nice option, particularly when paired with the Legion Go handheld.
Editors' Recommendations I got Legion Glasses for gaming, but I’m actually using them for ASMR AMD’s new anti-lag tech could land you with a ban in games This Noctua-themed gaming PC is a bespoke beauty — and you can buy it The Steam Deck and Nintendo Switch had a baby, and it’s Lenovo’s Legion Go Consoles still have one big advantage, and it’s hurting PC gaming Gaming Lenovo PC PC Gaming Tech News Computing The tech community has been oversaturated with AI this past week, from ChatGPT to Google Bard, but not without reason. We see fads like NFTs and web3 come and go, but AI is here to stay -- even in your PC games.
It's not all doom and gloom, though. AI and machine learning has already proven itself wildly useful in PC gaming, and it has far-reaching implications for how games are made and experienced. I'm not trying to fit a square peg into a round hole here -- and if you stick with me, you'll see why.
How it's being used now Computing The PlayStation 5 is back in stock, and if you've been eagerly waiting to jump into the next generation of gaming, now seems like the time to strike. I'm here to sway you away from a console, though, because you can build a PC for around the same price that puts the PS5 to shame.
PC building is getting more expensive, but prices on the best graphics cards are dropping. With some clever shopping and bit of elbow grease, a gaming PC can deliver better performance and higher-quality visuals without costing much more than Sony's console. Here's the build you need.
Meet the PS5 killer Computing At long last, 8K is making its way to gaming monitors -- or at least, that's what Samsung's new Odyssey Neo G9 2023 is pushing toward as it ushers in a new generation of gaming displays. But 8K isn't new in itself -- it's been in the mainstream gaming conscience for nearly three years with GPUs and consoles -- so why haven't we seen more 8K gaming monitors? As an era of next-gen displays starts to emerge, 8K feels like it should become the next big gaming destination. But don't buy the hype. It'll be a long time before 8K gaming truly catches on, and there are a few big reasons why.
What we have now Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
