Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending in Computing: Best Dell Laptops ChatGPT Best Monitors Asus ROG Azoth Review How to delete a page in Word in 3 easy steps RTX 4080 vs RTX 4070 Ti Best Mac Apps AMD vs Intel Recall an Email in Outlook Home Computing News Meet the Qualcomm chips powering Meta’s Quest 3 headset By Alan Truly Close A display model of Qualcomm’s Snapdragon XR2 Gen 2 chip.
Tracey Truly / Digital Trends Qualcomm just announced two new Snapdragon chips, one that dramatically increases the performance available to next-generation VR headsets, and another that expands the capabilities of new smart glasses.
Snapdragon XR2 Gen 2 brings VR power Snapdragon AR1 Gen 1 make glasses smarter The Snapdragon XR2 Gen 2 takes over for the original XR2 chip. Qualcomm launched the XR2 Gen 1 in 2020 and it quickly became the processor of choice for almost every manufacturer of VR and XR headsets with advanced tracking capabilities.
Qualcomm announced the AR2 Gen 1 in 2022, but we haven’t seen them in any glasses yet. Now, we know Qualcomm has been in progress on the chip that will greatly advance the capabilities of affordable smart glasses. When AR2 Gen 1 glasses launch , most likely in 2024, it will bring us closer to the full potential of augmented reality glasses.
Meta Quest 3 is official, but Apple is waiting in the wings AR glasses will have a dedicated Qualcomm chip in 2023 How to watch Meta’s Quest Pro launch today (and what to expect) Snapdragon XR2 Gen 2 brings VR power Qualcomm After a three-year gap in updates, it’s not surprising that the Snapdragon XR2 Gen 2 brings remarkable gains in speed and efficiency. Qualcomm says it has 2.5 times the GPU performance of the XR2 Gen 1, while delivering 50% better power efficiency. AI performance is eight times better.
The Snapdragon XR2 Gen 2’s CPU features two performance cores and four efficiency cores, outpacing even the speedy Snapdragon 8 Gen 2 , according to Said Bakadir, Qualcomm XR product and business lead. It will also enable VR headsets to run multitask apps and games faster than ever.
That might equate to better image quality, faster frame rates, longer battery life, lighter VR headsets, or more sensors. The mix of those upgrades depends on each manufacturer’s design goals.
The Snapdragon XR2 Gen 2 moves visual analytics from software to silicon for faster and more accurate tracking. Qualcomm’s press briefing included a video of people playing ping pong with actual paddles, table, and ball,– while wearing VR headsets. The latency of about 12 milliseconds lets you move quickly in mixed reality without a big lag.
The new Qualcomm chip will support up to 3K-by-3K resolution, with on-chip super resolution, foveated rendering, and space warp. If you’re unfamiliar with those last three terms, they’re all techniques that improve graphics quality without slowing down frame rates.
The Snapdragon XR2 Gen 2 supports Qualcomm FastConnect and Wi-Fi 6E and 7, providing up to 5.8 Gbps of bandwidth while using 25% less power with 80% lower latency. That should improve the quality and reliability of streaming content and wireless PC VR connections.
Meta’s new Quest 3 VR headset is the first to get the Qualcomm Snapdragon XR2 Gen 2, unlocking more exciting gaming and mixed reality experiences. [link to Meta Quest 3 hands-on] Since the Snapdragon XR2 Gen 2 brings big performance gains, other standalone VR headset manufacturers will be eager to launch competing solutions. It’s an exciting time for virtual reality.
Snapdragon AR1 Gen 1 make glasses smarter Qualcomm Qualcomm’s Snapdragon AR1 Gen 1 will make smart glasses more intelligent, adding some AR features we’ve been anticipating.
Until now, smart glasses used low-power chips designed for watches or overpowered VR chips like the XR2 Gen 1. Smartwatch processors limit the capabilities of smart glasses and VR chips aren’t efficient enough for lightweight and long-lasting smart glasses.
The Snapdragon AR1 Gen 1 should make smart glasses much more useful, adding on-glass AI that manufacturers can use for real-time translations, visual search, and noise cancellation.
Qualcomm claims the image capture of devices with this chip can be as good as those you get with your smartphone.
 12MP resolution photos with on-chip HDR should bring a significant improvement in quality.
The Snapdragon AR2 Gen 1’s video resolution is only 6MP, however. You’ll still need to carry your smartphone to get the best videos. The first-person perspective and instant access of smart glasses is a compelling argument for photo- and video-capable glasses.
Qualcomm chips have capabilities that often go untapped. The Snapdragon AR1 Gen 1 supports audio-only, single, and stereo displays. If smart glasses include displays, the chip supports up to 1280-by-1280 resolution per eye.
Tracking supports three degrees of freedom (3DoF) so virtual objects remain fixed in space around you when you turn your head, but travel with you as you walk. The AR2 Gen 1 features more advanced 6DoF tracking that anchors virtual objects when you move.
Wi-Fi 7 and Bluetooth 5.2 and 5.3 support speed connectivity without draining battery life. The chip also supports fitness sensors, opening the door to smart glasses replacing smartwatches.
Qualcomm worked closely with Meta on the Snapdragon AR1 Gen 1, and it’s the processor used in the second-generation Ray-Ban Stories smart glasses. [link to Meta Ray-Ban Stories 2 news] Editors' Recommendations Qualcomm says its new chips are 4.5 times faster at AI than rivals Apple’s VR headset may launch soon, intriguing leak suggests Meta just quietly announced when the Quest 3 will launch Exciting Meta Quest 3 details leak in full CAD renders Watch Meta demonstrate full-body VR tracking with just a Quest headset Qualcomm Tech News Virtual Reality Computing Mark Zuckerberg wants the announcement of his company's next premium VR headset to be an "iPhone moment" -- a defining shift for virtual reality with mass consumer adoption of the technology. To achieve that vision, Meta, the company that Zuckerberg helms, will first start by replacing your trusty laptop with goggles.
Meta, which owns Facebook and the company and technology behind Oculus, is working on an unannounced premium virtual reality headset called Project Cambria, which the company briefly teased at its Connect conference. Project Cambria comes with new technology that isn’t yet available on current VR headsets, like eye-tracking and facial recognition monitoring to record your facial expressions -- as well as new optics.
Computing By most accounts, Meta's Quest 2 virtual reality headset has been a smash hit for the company. Now it seems, Meta is looking to capitalize on that success with a follow-up VR headset. This new headset improves on the Quest 2 with some useful new features.
Ming-Chi Kuo, normally known for his Apple-centric leaks, provided some details of the new VR headset. It will likely be known as the Quest 2 Pro instead of the Quest 3 and include upgraded specs such as 2160 x 2160 mini-LED displays for each eye and a dual-element lens design.
Computing Valve has finally updated the Steam Hardware & Software Survey, which details which components are most used by Steam players. The Meta Quest 2 (formerly Oculus) is by far the most popular VR headset, sitting at about 46% market share.
Interestingly, Valve's own Index VR headset is sitting in second place at around 14%. The Meta Rift S, HTC Vive, and other Windows mixed reality (XR) headsets from companies like HP and Dell round out most of the survey. It's not great news for HTC, whose Vive headset was among the most popular at one point.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
