Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending in Computing: Best Dell Laptops ChatGPT Best Monitors Asus ROG Azoth Review How to delete a page in Word in 3 easy steps RTX 4080 vs RTX 4070 Ti Best Mac Apps AMD vs Intel Recall an Email in Outlook Home Computing Features I built my own robot dog, and you can too By Alan Truly Close Petoi’s Bittle X is a programmable robot kit that looks like a futuristic cyberdog.
Alan Truly / Digital Trends I built my own robot dog, and it wasn’t difficult. That doesn’t mean I’m a robotics engineer or an electronics tinkerer. I took an electronics class in high school, but no oscilloscopes, multimeters, or soldering are required to make this cyberdog.
What can Bittle X do? Building Bittle X But I’m a cat person Is Bittle X right for you? It isn’t as big and strong as Boston Dynamic’s Spot , but itcosts much less. It’s not as cute as Sony’s Aibo, which has been around long enough that Sony has instituted a foster care program for its aging robotic dogs.
However, Petoi’s Bittle X is a fun, affordable robot dog kit that’s educational and customizable for open-source projects. I put it together and learned how to troubleshoot connections, calibrate joints, and interact with my little friend. Here’s how I did it.
I built a couch gaming PC that puts the PS5 to shame — and you can too Why I downclock my powerful GPU, and you should too What can Bittle X do? Despite Bittle X’s size, this robodog can do a backflip.
Alan Truly / Digital Trends When fully assembled and calibrated, Bittle X becomes a remote-controlled, quadrupedal robot. I can connect to it via my computer or phone.
The Petoi mobile app has arrows to guide Bittle to walk, crawl, or trot in any direction, as well as a list of buttons to perform a variety of tricks. Bittle X can wave, sit, play dead, stretch, and more.
If the robot trips or falls, it automatically flips back over. It’s a durable device made of high-impact plastic, so it should last many years.
Petoi includes a remote control for quick and easy commands.
Alan Truly / Digital Trends I can use a remote for preset commands. I can also teach this robodog new tricks. In the computer app, drag-and-drop command blocks allow the creation of custom movement sequences. It’s also possible to code in C++ or Python for more complicated programming. For example, there’s a custom sequence to allow Bittle X to cross a wide gap, as shown in the video below.
Bittle X also understands voice commands, and Petoi programmed in a massive library of over 40 words, some quite impressive. If your little buddy doesn’t respond, try saying “play sound,” or “bing-bing” to switch to English.
If the cyberdog understands you, it will “speak” to let you know. The speech is hard to understand, but it’s still satisfying to hear a response as it prepares to perform a stunt. Bittle X can do a backflip, front flip, handstand, and more.
Building Bittle X Bittle X is partially assembled, but it still takes about an hour to build this robodog.
Tracey Truly / Digital Trends It’s relatively easy to put the Bittle X together. It took me a little over an hour. There are plenty of tiny screws, a small magnetic screwdriver, a collection of servos, leg parts, the body, a preassembled head, circuit board, and battery.
The instructions are reasonably clear, but I had to switch from instructions specific to Bittle X to a more general guide halfway through, then back again to finish.
The components have subtle differences, so I tried to check carefully before attaching a part. I had to redo a few steps.
The fussiest part is arranging the wires and plugging them into the correct plugs. I have big hands, and there isn’t much room to maneuver inside the body.
The wiring was the hardest part of building Bittle X.
Tracey Truly / Digital Trends I had extra pieces left after completely assembling Bittle X, spare parts in case some are lost or damaged. The next step is calibration, where I learned what I did wrong.
In calibration, Bittle X rotates its limbs at right angles. The upper legs should be vertical, while the lower legs are horizontal. My robot had some weird angles. I tried using the mobile app to correct the issue, but some were too far off, so I removed and reattached them correctly.
Another calibration test revealed some portions weren’t moving at all. I removed the back and unscrewed the circuit board and discovered I missed a pin when I plugged them in.
The Petoi mobile app’s calibration controls helped me discover and fix mistakes.
Tracey Truly / Digital Trends After correcting the errors, I could fine-tune to make minor angle adjustments with the plus and minus calibration controls.
Already, Bittle X was teaching me about taking care when assembling parts and, particularly, when plugging in electronics. I’m happy the Bittle X design is robust enough to forgive my mistakes. After fixing those errors, everything worked as expected.
But I’m a cat person Petoi also makes a robot cat called Nybble.
Petoi Petoi sells three Bittle robot dog models.
 The Bittle X uses an ESP32 BiBoard, while the Bittle STEM and Robotics Kit use an Arduino UNO-compatible NyBoard. ESP32 BiBoard is faster, while the NyBoard is more compatible with the maker community for add-ons and customization.
If you’re a cat person, that isn’t a problem because Petoi’s earlier robot pet, Nybble, is a cat. That explains why the company logo looks feline.
Nybble is made of wood, while Bittle uses high-impact plastic. Nybble doesn’t have Bittle’s built-in Bluetooth or Wi-Fi connectivity either. Cats are finicky like that, but you can add those features if you’d like.
Unlike actual cats, Nybble is a bit larger and heavier than Petoi’s robodog Bittle, requiring more assembly. Petoi estimates constructing Nybble takes about four times as long as it does to put Bittle together.
Is Bittle X right for you? The Bittle X robot dog raises a paw to wave at me.
Alan Truly / Digital Trends Bittle X has an attractive price — $280 is hard to beat for a complete quadrupedal robot with Wi-Fi and Bluetooth connectivity. It also includes a remote control, so you don’t need to rely on a computer or a phone to move your robot pet around.
If you want to explore robotic hardware or software, this is an easy way to do so. I’ve barely scratched the surface of what’s possible with Petoi’s Bittle X. Check out the spooky enhanced Bittle in Petoi’s video below.
If you’re looking for a hassle-free toy robot, this isn’t the right choice. If you want a robot that can do real work like Amazon’s Astro , Bittle X might not be robust enough. Its battery life is about one hour of continuous walking.
The Bittle X would make a wonderful gift for children (10 and older) interested in science. Maybe they’ll help develop robots that can explore the solar system or design a futuristic humanoid robot that can do anything a human can.
 Big kids, like my wife and I, enjoy Bittle X also.
Editors' Recommendations I turned my face into a game controller, and you can too Why I converted my Windows laptop into a Chromebook, and why you should too I built my own gaming keyboard for the price of buying one — and it’s so much better Features Computing Printers are complicated machines featuring a mix of plastics, metals, electronics, and components, some of which are potentially flagged as hazardous waste. In 2023, it's more important than ever to be kind to the planet, and there are several environmentally safe ways to dispose of a printer.
Even the best printers in the world can reach the end of their life after several years if ink or toner is no longer available. A well-loved printer can suffer from accumulated wear and tear or damage from a catastrophic power surge that's too expensive to repair.
Computing It's Black Friday, which means it is time to give expensive tech products and fun, but expensive, toys a second look. The right Black Friday deals are there to take these categories of products down in price. Where these categories of expensive tech and cool toys collide is the Meta Quest 2, a VR headset, and sure enough, it has a good sale going on over at Amazon right now. Normally $300, its price has dropped by $51 down to just $249, one of the best VR headset Black Friday deals we've seen. The really good news? This deal is here now, so you don't have to wait to buy it like you will with the rest of your post Thanksgiving shopping. In fact, if you tap the button below and buy now, and with a little shipping luck, you might have it by Thanksgiving to play with your family.
Why you should buy the Meta Quest 2 The Meta Quest 2, which dominated Steam last year, is a VR headset that gives a full 360 field of view, allows you to experience 3D positional audio, and has over 500 compatible titles between gaming, fitness, and other experiences. If you're a Twitch viewer, you may recognize it from streamers playing Meta Quest 2 games like Beat Saber or the somewhat ironically humorous Among Us VR. It refreshes at 120Hz and gives each eye a view of 1832 x 1920p.
Computing The G-series of gaming laptops from Dell represent a balance between performance and affordability. While it is positioned below the Alienware gaming laptop lineup, it manages to incorporate some of the standout features from its more expensive counterpart. It takes inspiration from its pricier cousin in terms of design and build quality, and also offers commendable thermal and graphics performance.
The company officially unveiled the 2023 G-series back in January at CES, and if you have decided to purchase a new Dell gaming laptop, then we recommend going for the latest G16 7630.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
