Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending in Computing: Best Dell Laptops ChatGPT Best Monitors Asus ROG Azoth Review How to delete a page in Word in 3 easy steps RTX 4080 vs RTX 4070 Ti Best Mac Apps AMD vs Intel Recall an Email in Outlook Home Gaming Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Meta Quest 3 review: the VR headset you’ve been waiting for By Alan Truly Close $500.00 Doubles Quest 2 GPU performance Crisper graphics with 30% more pixels Sharp, clear lenses without god rays Mixed reality is good enough to use a phone Depth sensor automatically maps your room Ringless controllers are less breakable Great price for a powerful VR headset Battery is still in front, adding face pressure Passthrough cameras are good, not great No silicone cover included The Meta Quest 3 just might change your mind about VR gaming. If you’ve been waiting and watching for VR headsets to reach a level of quality that’s worth your attention, that time has come.
How fast and sharp is the Meta Quest 3? How good is the Quest 3’s mixed reality? Controllers without rings Quest 3 comfort Quest 3 is a game-changing VR headset Now’s the time for VR At a very affordable price, you can get a high-quality VR headset that has a bright, sharp display and doubles as a mixed reality device. It’s a way to enjoy the AR future we all want before powerful enough AR glasses arrive. It’s easy to set up and removes almost every barrier to enjoying virtual reality. I’ll start off with the technical details, then delve into why the Quest 3 might be a game changer for VR.
The best Meta Quest 2 games The Meta Quest Pro and Quest 2 are getting big price cuts this month A multiplayer Ghostbusters VR game is coming to PlayStation VR 2 and Meta Quest 2 How fast and sharp is the Meta Quest 3? Red Matter 2 looks stunning on the Quest 3, with 3D imagery and immersiveness that you can’t see on a flat screen.
Digital Trends Meta’s Quest 3 makes a significant leap over earlier standalone VR headsets, catching up with current technology after falling behind for many years. The display is much better than the one on the Quest 2, packing in 30% more pixels and widening the sweet spot with new pancake lenses that eliminate god rays and make graphics crisp.
The Quest 2 was a worthy headset in 2020 and continued to offer the best VR solution for three years. Meta’s optimization efforts are almost miraculous, delivering impressive hand-tracking and rendering capabilities on this aging hardware. However, it really is time for something new, and now it’s here.
With Qualcomm’s latest extended reality processor, the Snapdragon XR2 Gen 2 , the Quest 3 roughly doubles the performance of the Quest 2. The GPU is more than twice as fast. Qualcomm hasn’t shared a direct CPU comparison, but the Snapdragon XR2 Gen 1 was based on the Snapdragon 865 processor, while the Snapdragon XR2 Gen 2 has more performance cores than the Snapdragon 8 Gen 2. The CPU will be at least 40% faster based on a comparison of the mobile chips.
The Qualcomm Snapdragon XR2 Gen 2 is optimized for VR and mixed reality.
Qualcomm With its newer chip, the Quest 3 also benefits from three years of XR advances, greater efficiency, and faster connectivity. Dedicated algorithms for tracking and image reprojection exist in the chip to allow the Quest operating system and apps to focus on other details.
Wi-Fi 6E is fast and reliable.
Meta eased the throttling of the Quest 2 to extend its life, but some people have complained that it gets hot. The Quest 3 breezes through the same tasks with no heat, while delivering a 30% higher resolution. Everything is crisper, snappier, and more dependable.
How good is the Quest 3’s mixed reality? Mixed reality is much improved with the Quest 3 as this Demeo screen capture shows.
Digital Trends Mixed reality means your actual surroundings are shown within the Quest 3 through the use of color passthrough cameras on the front. The challenge is making this look the same as if you weren’t wearing a VR headset.
Since the cameras are about an inch in front of your eyes, changing the perspective is enough to be disorienting. The Quest 3 uses math to recalculate and reproject the scene before displaying it in the headset so it’s aligned correctly for your eyes.
The result is pretty convincing, particularly when used for gaming. It’s not perfect, but when I’m blasting invading blobs, I’m not focused on the background.
When examining the passthrough with no distractions, I can see minor glitches. If I move my hands in front of the headset, there’s a ripple as the reprojection adjusts to optimize for the closer object.
The Quest 3 passthrough image is good enough that I can use my phone without removing the headset. That was impossible with the Quest 2 and wasn’t worth the extreme effort required to do so with the Quest Pro. The resolution isn’t so good that I would use my phone for an extended period that way, but it’s usable.
The Quest 3’s mixed reality view brings bright, colorful gaming into your actual room.
Digital Trends The Quest 3 can easily capture screenshots that include mixed reality, as you can see in the images above. Both phones are set to medium brightness. With a Quest Pro, the screens are completely whited-out unless the brightness is very low.
Controllers without rings Meta Meta has removed the rings on the Quest 3’s Touch Plus controllers, eliminating the risk of crashing rings together when caught up in a game. The Quest Pro’s Touch Pro controllers were also ringless, but included their own embedded processors and cameras to handle tracking. Meta managed to lose the rings on the Quest 3 without so much hardware expense.
There was some concern that Touch Plus controllers would fall short of Quest 2’s performance in fast action, but the Quest 3 managed to keep up with quick strikes in any direction. The Touch Pro controllers still have the advantage of being visible even when held behind my back.
Quest 3 owners can buy Meta’s most advanced controllers separately if that additional accuracy is important.
Quest 3 comfort I can play in tight quarters with the Quest 3’s mixed reality view.
Tracey Truly / Digital Trends For VR, comfort is critical, yet major manufacturers have overlooked this issue.
The Quest Pro was supposed to be a breakthrough in wearability, and for some it was. Others had issues with the forehead pad.
Sony’s PlayStation VR2 had the same problem. When the head pad coincidentally matches your forehead shape, it’s wonderful. Otherwise, you have to find solutions to make the expensive new headset usable.
It’s too early to know how well the Quest 3 will work for others, but I found it comfortable for extended periods of time. Even the standard head strap has three points of adjustment to optimize the fit. Like the Quest 2, the hinge pivots and the length of the center strap is adjustable. Unlike the Quest 2, there’s also a circumference adjustment.
By tightening the back strap and adjusting the top strap, I can fine-tune the fit for stability and comfort that suits the game or app I’m using at the moment. The IPD (eye-spacing adjustment) range is very wide at 53mm to 75mm. Via two buttons inside the facial interface, I can lengthen it to accommodate glasses.
The 40% slimmer profile reduces the lever effect that makes front-heavy VR headsets press into your face. The overall effect is a headset that feels lighter and more comfortable with the standard strap. I had to order an expensive Elite strap to enjoy the same comfort with my Quest 2.
My skin is sensitive and wearing a standard VR headset for 30 minutes or more irritates my face. A silicone cover (not included) helps, but isn’t a perfect solution. For that reason, my Quest Pro will remain my primary headset. It’s the one and only VR headset I’m aware of that rests on my forehead, not my nose and cheeks.
There’s nothing preventing third-party VR accessory manufacturers from creating a similar free-floating solution for the Quest 3, and I would welcome it. That’s not possible with the Quest 2 since its Fresnel lenses can’t be exposed to external light without showing strong god rays. The Quest 3’s pancake lenses don’t have this issue.
Quest 3 is a game-changing VR headset Tabletop gaming doesn’t need a table anymore since mixed reality can place the board anywhere.
Tracey Truly / Digital Trends At the top of the article, I described the Quest 3 as a game-changing device since it solves so many common complaints about virtual reality, such as: My computer isn’t VR-ready Setup is too complicated VR headsets cost too much I’m afraid of punching my TV Standalone VR is too slow and has poor picture quality There aren’t any compelling VR games VR games are too expensive Since the Quest 3 is a standalone system, you don’t need a computer to enjoy high-quality VR games. The graphics are good. PC VR can be better, and if you demand more than the Quest 3 offers, you can wirelessly connect the Quest 3 to your PC to play Half-Life: Alyx and other VR games that require tens of gigabytes of storage.
Setup is super quick; just scan a QR code on your phone with the Quest 3’s cameras and download games. Meta includes a decent web browser, video player, a few basic games, and more on the headset to keep you busy while the bigger games download.
At $500, a Quest 3 costs about the same as a gaming console, but opens up a new world of experience.
Since the Quest 3 automatically maps your environment, you don’t have to fuss with drawing a guardian border like on previous versions. Just look around the room for a few seconds and a colorful grid will fade in if you get too close to objects.
Meta Quest 3 automatically scans your room with its depth sensor.
Digital Trends With a processor that’s better than what’s found in many mobile phones, the Quest 3 can render high-quality graphics at a fast pace while tracking your hands or controllers in 3D space.
Meta just announced several exciting new VR games, including Asgard’s Wrath 2 , which will feature a massive world with 60 hours of gameplay, Assassin’s Creed Nexus VR , and Arizona Sunshine II.
 Many more are coming soon. The Quest platform already has plenty of compelling gaming titles, such as Red Matter , The Walking Dead: Saints and Sinners , Resident Evil 4 , Beat Saber , Pistol Whip , and Superhot.
The list of great VR games goes on and on. Now mixed reality games will rise in popularity as well, bringing VR action into your personal space. Complex animated tabletop gaming is easy with the Quest 3, and Demeo is a great example. You can even experience a zombie attack in your home with games like The Cabin , which now offers a mixed-reality mode where creatures start creeping through your windows and popping out of doors.
Meta’s new Quest+ subscription service lets you build a library of VR games for a low monthly fee.
The Meta store has free games as well.
Population: One is a free battle royal reminiscent of Fortnite.
Horizon Worlds has become a proper multiplayer , cross-platform game environment, and Meta recently added two great games, Super Rumble and Citadel , with more in progress.
Now’s the time for VR Quest 3 lets you venture Into The Rift with high-quality graphics.
Digital Trends If you’ve been sitting on the sidelines waiting for the right moment to try VR, now is the time. Meta’s Quest 3 will be hard to beat in terms of value. You’d have to spend thousands of dollars to get a better experience, and even then, some headsets fall short.
For $500, you get a high-quality VR headset that doesn’t require any other gear. For more games, connect the Quest 3 to a VR-ready gaming PC. Storage is 128GB, which is enough for several standard games and a couple of big ones. For a luxurious amount of storage, you can get the 512GB model for $650.
If you already own an older VR headset, consider upgrading. The 2,064-by-2,208 pixel per eye resolution is noticeably crisper than on the Quest 2 and the pancake lenses provide a wide sweet spot of clarity. The volume is 40% louder, and the audio quality is great. Personally, I wouldn’t use earbuds unless I needed to limit sound leakage.
I strongly recommend the Meta Quest 3 to anyone, even if you’re considering the Apple Vision Pro.
 It might take a year or more for Apple’s library of VR titles to reach a satisfying depth. Meanwhile, the Quest 3 can run all Quest 2 games with better-quality graphics without slowing the frame rate. Some developers are already updating games to take full advantage of the Quest 3 hardware.
The Quest 3 offers incredible value right now and will continue getting better with Meta’s ongoing software updates that keep the hardware working its best even after years of service. If you haven’t ordered one yet, buy a Quest 3 today. You won’t regret it.
Editors' Recommendations Best Meta Quest 3 deals: Get Asgard Wrath 2 for free and more Meta Quest+ subscription is the VR version of PS Plus and Xbox Live Gold Razer’s first VR accessories aim to make the Meta Quest 2 more comfortable The best Quest 2 accessories Meta Quest 2 is getting a former PlayStation VR exclusive and more this fall Computing Facebook Product Reviews Virtual Reality VR Headset and Accessory Reviews Gaming Meta's virtual reality headset, the Quest 2 is getting a price hike of $100. This announcement comes from the official Meta Quest VR Twitter page which cites the price rise as being part of its vision to "move the VR industry forward." The 128GB Meta Quest model is currently priced at $300 with its 256GB model sibling going for $400 on most marketplaces. These prices have been standard since their initial release. Meta's new jump in price sees both these products having $100 extra added on two years after release.
Gaming Meta has announced you will no longer be required to have a Facebook account to log into the Quest headset starting next month. However, you may have to create a new Meta account if you want to play any VR games.
Founder Mark Zuckerberg announced the new change in a Facebook post on Thursday, saying that Meta is rolling out new accounts for Oculus Quest owners to use instead of their Facebook account. He then added: "This will give everyone more choice about how you show up in the metaverse." Computing If Valve and Nintendo thought they were the only kids on the handheld gaming block, they're in for a surprise. Shenzhen GPD just revealed the Win Max 2, a handheld gaming laptop packed with power.
The keyword here is "laptop." The GPD Win Max 2 is different from all other handheld gaming devices thanks to its classic clamshell laptop design. Only this laptop fits easily in two hands for gaming.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
