Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix F1 Live Stream Stranger Things Season 5 Best New Movies Most Popular Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney+ UFC Live Stream Best Movies on Disney+ Home Entertainment Guides 5 great mystery movies to watch like A Haunting in Venice By Alex Welch Close Rob Youngson / 20th Century Studios This week, Kenneth Branagh’s Hercule Poirot returns to the big screen in A Haunting in Venice.
 The film, based on Agatha Christie’s 1969 novel Hallowe’en Party , picks up with Branagh’s Poirot 10 years after the events of 2022’s Death on the Nile.
 It follows him as he’s slowly but surely drawn out of his self-imposed retirement by, at first, a séance, and then a brutal murder. As far as mysteries go, A Haunting in Venice is fairly standard, but it’s the film’s horror edge, as well as the gothic atmosphere it creates, that truly separates it from so many other movies like it.
Clue (1985) Knives Out (2019) See How They Run (2022) Bad Times at the El Royale (2018) Cure (1997) That doesn’t, however, mean there aren’t a few movies that are capable of offering, at the very least, a similar experience. The following five mystery films should, in fact, satisfy anyone who leaves A Haunting in Venice in the mood for something in the same vein.
Clue (1985) If you’re looking for a pure murder mystery movie, it doesn’t get any more straightforward than Clue.
 Based on the board game of the same name, this star-studded 1985 black comedy is a tongue-in-cheek romp that knowingly pays homage to all the archetypes and tropes that have come to define the mystery genre for many moviegoers.
5 sci-fi movies on Netflix you need to watch in November 5 movies to watch if you liked The Marvels 3 underrated movies on Peacock you need to watch in November As alluring as its premise and farcical tone are, though, it’s ultimately the now-iconic performances given by, among others, Tim Curry, Madeline Kahn, Lesley Ann Warren, and Christopher Lloyd that’ll leave the biggest impression in Clue.
Clue is currently available to stream on both Amazon Prime Video and MGM+.
Knives Out (2019) Much like Clue , writer-director Rian Johnson’s Knives Out is a deliciously clever murder mystery. Anchored by a southern-fried performance for the ages, which comes courtesy of Daniel Craig, the film is, like many other titles on this list, an ensemble dramedy that mines as much power from its colorful cast of characters as it does its whip-smart screenplay.
Both a loving homage to the Agatha Christie novels that inspired it and a contemporary subversion of the murder mystery genre itself, Knives Out is even sharper and more crowd-pleasing than it initially seems.
Knives Out is available to rent now on all major digital platforms.
See How They Run (2022) Likely the most underrated film on this list, See How They Run is a charming, endearingly odd murder mystery. Featuring two winning lead performances from Sam Rockwell and Saoirse Ronan as a sleepy police detective and his overeager second-in-command, the dramedy is both a lean mystery and a send-up of the London theater scene.
It was more or less ignored when it was released last year, but that only gives more viewers the chance to discover it for the first time now. While considerably lighter than A Haunting in Venice , it’s just as smartly written and consistently entertaining.
See How They Run is currently available to stream on Hulu.
Bad Times at the El Royale (2018) Less of a straight-up, Agatha Christie-esque murder mystery than the other titles on this list, Bad Times at the El Royale is a frustratingly underseen thriller that has more in common with A Haunting in Venice than you might think. As a film about a group of disparate characters trapped in one location together, the film delivers plenty of violence and intrigue over the course of its runtime.
The fact that there’s never a question about who the film’s killers are doesn’t mean it doesn’t contain its fair share of mysteries, either. Not only is it just as suspenseful as A Haunting in Venice , but like that film, there are also moments when it veers further into the horror genre than many may see coming.
Bad Times at the El Royale is streaming now on Amazon Prime Video.
Cure (1997) Speaking of mystery thrillers with a decidedly dark, horror bent, Kiyoshi Kurosawa’s Cure is an engrossing and thoroughly unnerving detective film. Like A Haunting in Venice , the movie features a handful of genuinely shocking and confounding deaths, and it introduces a potential supernatural explanation for them that forces its protagonist to question everything he thought he knew about how the world works.
Even more terrifying and immersive than A Haunting in Venice , Cure is a must-see mystery for anyone drawn to thrillers that incorporate elements of both fantasy and horror.
Cure is currently available to stream on the Criterion Channel.
A Haunting in Venice is now playing in theaters.
Editors' Recommendations 5 bad 2000s action movies that you still need to watch right now 5 movies like Netflix’s The Killer you should watch right now 3 underrated sci-fi movies on Amazon Freevee you should watch in November Like the hit Netflix show All The Light We Cannot See? Then watch these 5 best WWII dramas 3 underrated movies on Prime Video you need to watch in November Streaming Services Entertainment The Afghanistan War drama The Kill Team arrived in theaters with little fanfare in 2019. Only a handful of people actually saw it during its initial run. Now, The Kill Team has appeared among the most popular movies on Netflix, which may finally give it the wider audience that it deserves.
The Kill Team was directed and written by Dan Krauss, who based it on his 2013 documentary of the same name. The story loosely adapts the Maywand District murders, a series of disturbing incidents in which U.S. soldiers murdered innocent Afghan civilians seemingly for sport. Nat Wolff stars in the film as Andrew Briggman, with Alexander Skarsgård as Sergeant Deeks, Adam Long as Rayburn, Jonathan Whitesell as Coombs, Brian "Sene" Marc as Marquez, Rob Morrow as William Briggman, Osy Ikhile as Weppler, Anna Francolini as Laura Briggman, Oliver Ritchie as Cappy, Tunji Kasim as Sergeant Wallace, and Taz Skylar as Sergeant Dawes.
Entertainment In the aftermath of his death, many people have looked back on Friends' star Matthew Perry's entire career to find ways to appreciate what he brought to all of his various projects.
While most people agree that Perry was never able to fully replicate the enormous success he had with Friends, he was undeniably a captivating screen presence, and there is a huge array of other TV and movie projects that highlight his skills as an actor and comedian. His death was an undeniable tragedy, but Perry left us with plenty of great examples of just how brilliant he could be on-screen.
17 Again (2009) 17 Again (2009) Official Trailer - Zac Efron, Matthew Perry Movie HD Entertainment Over the past 25 years, Reese Witherspoon has become one of the great movie stars of her generation. Since first emerging on the scene in a series of comedies, Witherspoon has definitively proven that she can be funny and dramatic in equal measure, and she's created a number of indelible roles over the course of her decades of stardom.
Few actresses are more versatile or charming than she continues to be to this day, and these are the five movies you should start with if you're looking to catch her best work.
Walk the Line (2005) Walk The Line | #TBT Trailer | 20th Century FOX Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
