Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix F1 Live Stream Stranger Things Season 5 Best New Movies Most Popular Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney+ UFC Live Stream Best Movies on Disney+ Home Entertainment Guides Like Fall of the House of Usher? Then watch these 5 TV shows that are just like it By Alex Welch Close Eike Schroter / Netflix October is here again, which means another Mike Flanagan-created show has premiered on Netflix.
 This year marks the fourth in a row that Flanagan has released a new title on the streaming service, following 2020’s The Haunting of Bly Manor , 2021’s Midnight Mass , and 2022’s The Midnight Club.
 His latest, The Fall of the House of Usher , is a gothic horror drama based on the works of Edgar Allan Poe , which is just another way of saying that it’s the most cynical and nihilistic project Flanagan has ever made.
The Haunting of Hill House (2018) The Terror (2018) Castle Rock (2018) Midnight Mass (2021) Dead Ringers (2023) Visually, tonally, and narratively, the series is alluring and unique, but that doesn’t mean there aren’t other shows that scratch some of the same itches it does. With that in mind, for all the viewers out there who are either about to finish The Fall of the House of Usher or already have, here are five TV shows that offer many of the same pleasures as the spooky Netflix drama.
The Haunting of Hill House (2018) Fear not, this list is not going to be comprised mostly or solely of Flanagan’s past projects. Given how closely tied The Fall of the House of Usher is to many of the filmmaker’s previous efforts, though, we’d be remiss not to recommend a few of them. Of all of the TV shows that he’s made up to this point, none match the narrative darkness and macabre spirit of The Fall of the House of Usher quite like 2018’s The Haunting of Hill House.
 The series was the first episodic project Flanagan made with Netflix, and five years later, it’s still the scariest show the streaming service has ever produced.
5 Matthew Perry movies and TV shows you should watch besides Friends The Fall of the House of Usher’s ending, explained 5 sci-fi movies like Foe you should watch If you’re looking for something that’ll intoxicate you with its moody tone and fill you with the same stomach-churning dread as The Fall of the House of Usher , then The Haunting of Hill House should be the next show on your to-watch list.
The Terror (2018) Released the same year as The Haunting of Hill House , but not nearly as widely seen, AMC’s The Terror is one of the best episodic horror series of the past 10 years. While both of its seasons are worth checking out, it’s The Terror ’s debut season that’ll likely appeal most to fans of The Fall of the House of Usher.
 Set in the mid-1800s and telling a fictionalized account of one British Royal Navy crew’s infamous, failed Arctic expedition, The Terror season 1 doesn’t quite boast the same contemporary, satirical edge as The Fall of the House of Usher , but it is just as violent, gory, atmospheric, and terrifying.
Like Netflix’s latest horror TV series, The Terror ’s first season also mines most of its intrigue, drama, and tension out of exploring the unexplained deaths of a single group of people.
Castle Rock (2018) Castle Rock shares many similarities with The Fall of the House of Usher.
 The Hulu series is inspired by the works of Stephen King in the same way The Fall of House of Usher is indebted to the stories and poems of Edgar Allan Poe, and like the new Netflix original, Castle Rock ‘s first season centers around a mysterious, potentially supernatural figure who brings death and chaos everywhere they go. Both seasons of Castle Rock are worth checking out, but it’s the show’s debut season that has the most in common with The Fall of the House of Usher.
It’s an unsettling, occasionally horrifying season of television — one that is driven by just as much intrigue and uncertainty as Flanagan’s latest, Poe-inspired offering.
Midnight Mass (2021) One could argue that all of Flanagan’s Netflix shows are required viewing for anyone who enjoys The Fall of the House of Usher.
 If the prospect of watching four horror TV shows in a row feels a bit too daunting, though, then newcomers to Flanagan’s work can feel confident giving Midnight Mass priority over his other limited series.
A seven-episode thriller about a small island community that is taken by storm with the arrival of an enigmatic new preacher, Midnight Mass offers just as much gore, gothic horror, and thematic depth as The Fall of the House of Usher , which makes it a must-watch title for anyone who loves the latter show.
Dead Ringers (2023) More than any other show, Dead Ringers boasts the same blend of dark humor and gruesome imagery featured in The Fall of the House of Usher.
 Based on the David Cronenberg-directed body horror film of the same name, Dead Ringers isn’t quite as straightforward of a genre experiment as The Fall of the House of Usher , but it’s just as perverse, scary, thrilling, and unpredictable.
Starring Rachel Weisz as a pair of ambitious, identical twin gynecologists, Dead Ringers isn’t for the faint of heart, but neither is The Fall of the House of Usher , and the two go together better than they arguably should.
Editors' Recommendations 3 best shows like American Horror Story you should watch 3 TV shows on Tubi you should watch in October 3 Edgar Allan Poe horror movies to watch after Netflix’s Fall of the House of Usher 5 true crime shows you should watch in October 5 TV shows you need to watch in October Streaming Services Entertainment If you've ever read Edgar Allan Poe's The Fall of the House of Usher, then you know that it doesn't have a story long enough to support eight episodes of television. However, for Mike Flanagan's final project at Netflix, the upcoming miniseries for The Fall of the House of Usher will be drawing upon more than just Poe's original story. Flanagan incorporates elements of Poe's other tales to expand the story of the doomed Usher family. And if the first trailer is any indication, Flanagan is also adding a touch of Painkiller and Succession to the gothic horror of Poe.
The Fall of the House of Usher | Official Trailer | Netflix Entertainment The fall TV season is going to look a little different in 2023. Due to the WGA and SAG-AFTRA strikes, scripted shows on broadcast TV will suffer the most, as the lineup is bleak for the upcoming months. It's why networks will air a lot of unscripted programming, like The Golden Bachelor, and reruns of shows from cable networks, such as Paramount Network's Yellowstone on CBS.
The new scripted programming for the fall season will come predominantly from streaming services. Thankfully, the streamers have plenty of highly-anticipated content on the shelf that can be distributed over the next few months. From a John Wick spin-off to the end of a teen comedy, check out these five shows this fall.
Sex Education season 4 (September 21) Sex Education: Season 4 | Official Teaser | Netflix Entertainment August is typically the month that the summer season starts to wind down. Kids prepare to go back to school, while adults figure out how to spend the last few days of vacation they have left for the season. On the movies and streaming front, however, the schedule remains as busy as ever, and that holds true for content about the LGBTQ+ experience.
In theaters, the comedy Bottoms and the drama Passages showcase the highs and lows of love, while the hit Netflix streaming show Heartstopper returns for a second season. In addition, there's an incisive documentary about a famously closeted gay Hollywood star on Max while Prime Video debuts a charming rom-com about the First Son and the Prince of England having a secret romance. There's something for everyone, and these five LGBTQ movies and shows are sure to keep you entertained well into the fall.
Rock Hudson: All That Heaven Allowed (out now) Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
