Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix F1 Live Stream Stranger Things Season 5 Best New Movies Most Popular Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney+ UFC Live Stream Best Movies on Disney+ Home Entertainment Guides Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? 5 underrated 2023 horror movies that are streaming right now By Alex Welch Close 20th Century Studios Spooky movie season has finally arrived, and while 2023 hasn’t turned out to be a banner year for horror movies, it has still delivered a number of genuinely memorable additions to the genre. This October, horror fans don’t need to rely solely on Hollywood’s current, frankly disappointing, lineup of theatrical offerings, either. There are, in fact, a handful of underrated horror movies available to stream right now.
The Boogeyman (Hulu) Huesera: The Bone Woman (Shudder) Unseen (Prime Video) Influencer (Shudder) Sick (Peacock) So, whether you need some ideas for what to watch on Halloween Night or you’re just in the mood for something scary this weekend, here are five horror movies from this year that you can stream at any point throughout the coming weeks.
The Boogeyman (Hulu) Based on a Stephen King short story of the same name, The Boogeyman didn’t make much of a mark when it was released in theaters in June. That’s a shame because The Boogeyman is one of the most effective mainstream horror movies of the year so far.
2023 Feast Week live stream: watch Thanksgiving college basketball for free Don’t let these 3 November hidden streaming movie gems fly under your radar The best movies and shows on Shudder right now (November 2023) The film, which focuses on a family that finds itself tormented by an evil supernatural entity, isn’t by any means revolutionary or all that original. It is, however, an entertaining piece of horror that features more than its fair share of memorable jump scares and set pieces. That makes it a perfect movie to watch from the comfort of your own home this October.
The Boogeyman is streaming now on Hulu.
Huesera: The Bone Woman (Shudder) One of this year’s indie horror darlings, Huesera: The Bone Woman is an unnerving, frequently terrifying addition to the body horror genre. Directed by Michelle Garza Cerveza, the film follows Valeria (Natalia Solián), a young woman whose first pregnancy is complicated after she’s cursed by an evil entity and forced to turn to a group of witches for help.
As far as body horror movies go, Huesera definitely isn’t for the faint of heart, but it’s perfect for anyone in the mood for a horror film that’s both original and truly hard to shake.
Huesera: The Bone Woman is streaming now on Shudder.
Unseen (Prime Video) Director Yoko Okumura’s Unseen follows Sam (Jolene Purdy), a gas station clerk who receives a phone call from Emily (Midori Francis), a nearly blind woman on the run from her murderous ex. Stranded in the middle of the woods with no way to know where she’s going, Emily is forced to rely on Sam’s video call directions to try and survive.
One of this year’s low-budget, Blumhouse-produced horror offerings, Unseen is as quirky and intense as its premise suggests and, thanks to its 76-minute runtime, it doesn’t overstay its welcome, either.
Unseen is streaming now on Amazon Prime Video.
Influencer (Shudder) One of the year’s biggest surprises, Influencer is a sneaky horror thriller that contains far more tricks up its sleeve than its premise may lead you to believe. Directed and co-written by Kurtis David Harder, the film follows Madison (Emily Tennant), a social media influencer who crosses paths with CW (Cassandra Naud), a mysterious stranger, while traveling abroad in Thailand.
To say much more about Influencer ’s plot would be to spoil what makes it so great. Suffice it to say: It’s a slick, subversive slasher thriller that’ll keep you on your toes for the entirety of its runtime.
Influencer is streaming now on Shudder.
Sick (Peacock) Speaking of smart slasher flicks, Sick is one of this year’s most underrated and entertaining horror films. Directed by John Hyams and co-written by Scream scribe Kevin Williamson, the thriller follows a pair of friends who decide to make the most of the global COVID-19 pandemic by quarantining together at one of their family’s lake houses… only to find themselves stalked by a knife-wielding killer.
The film makes the most out of its familiar premise — delivering a darkly funny, brutal, and bare-bones horror experience that’s just thrilling and simple enough for nearly everyone to enjoy.
Sick is streaming now on Peacock.
Editors' Recommendations 5 bad 2000s action movies that you still need to watch right now The 50 best movies on Netflix right now (November 2023) 5 best death game movies you should watch right now The 10 most popular movies on Netflix right now The best feel-good movies on Netflix right now Streaming Services Entertainment Four of the most accomplished teams in college basketball will convene for the State Farm 2023 Champions Classic. Debuting in 2011, the Champions Classic features Duke, Kansas, Kentucky, and Michigan State. No. 9 Duke (1-1) versus No. 18. Michigan State (1-1) will play in the first game, followed by No. 17 Kentucky (2-0) vs. No. 1 Kansas (2-0). Both games will be played at the United Center in Chicago, Illinois.
The Champions Classic is a chance for college basketball fans to watch four of the premier programs in the sport. The event serves as an early-season litmus test for each team. In last year's event, Kansas defeated Duke while Michigan State beat Kentucky, with the latter game going to double overtime.
Watch the 2023 Champions Classic live stream on ESPN Entertainment You're going to see a lot of Christmas movies on Hulu through the end of the year. 'Tis the season for the Huludays, after all. While we'll go over your Christmas options at a later date, this month's selections of the best movies on Hulu feature a new original film, Quiz Lady, as well as A Haunting in Venice, which recently finished its theatrical run. The other prominent new additions are Jumanji: Welcome to the Jungle and the comedy biopic Driven.
Need help keeping up with everything new on Hulu? Every month, we go over the greatest films that Hulu has to offer while keeping track of what's coming and going. That's why our update of the best movies on Hulu is always current. We're here to help you plan your next movie night.
Entertainment Sci-fi films never go out of style. From Alien and Back to the Future to Dune and Blade Runner, sci-fi films continue to improve thanks to new technology. Many sci-fi films find a home on Netflix and wind up on the streamer's 10 most popular movies list. Films like Don't Look Up, The Adam Project, and Bird Box are 10 of the most popular English films on Netflix ever.
The Adam Project is one of our picks for sci-fi movies to watch in November. Other selections include the epic sequel to Godzilla: King of the Monsters, and a sci-fi thriller about a pilot's fight for survival against the dinosaurs.
Godzilla vs. Kong (2021) Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
