Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix F1 Live Stream Stranger Things Season 5 Best New Movies Most Popular Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney+ UFC Live Stream Best Movies on Disney+ Home Entertainment Guides Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? 5 underrated Robert De Niro movies you should check out By Alex Welch Close Paramount Pictures Robert De Niro is one of the most revered actors of all time, and for good reason. The two-time Oscar winner has given some of the most indelible performances in movie history, and thanks to his decades-spanning friendship with director Martin Scorsese, he’s been at the center of one of the most noteworthy partnerships that cinema has ever known. This year, the duo has added another worthy addition to their existing list of collaborations in the form of the new true-crime drama Killers of the Flower Moon.
This Boy’s Life (1993) A Bronx Tale (1993) Ronin (1998) Stardust (2007) The Intern (2015) While De Niro’s partnership with Scorsese has produced most of the films he’ll always be best-known for, the actor has starred in more great movies than most other Hollywood stars in history. With that in mind, here are five underrated movies featuring De Niro that you should check out.
This Boy’s Life (1993) This 1993 drama is a bruising, difficult coming-of-age story that isn’t mentioned enough when critics and casual viewers alike discuss Robert De Niro’s filmography. Based on a memoir by Tobias Wolff, This Boy’s Life stars De Niro as the domineering, abusive stepfather to Toby (Leonardo DiCaprio).
5 movies like Killers of the Flower Moon you should watch 3 underrated Ethan Hawke movies you should watch The 5 best 2023 movie trailers so far It’s a painful, effective showcase for both De Niro and a then-up-and-coming DiCaprio, and it marked the first time that the two actors had ever worked together onscreen. Thirty years later, they’ve reunited for Killers of the Flower Moon.
This Boy’s Life can be rented or purchased on Prime Video.
A Bronx Tale (1993) One of only two films that Robert De Niro has ever directed, 1993’s A Bronx Tale stars the Oscar winner as an MTA bus driver whose relationship with his young son is threatened by the boy’s admiration for a local mafia boss (Chazz Palminteri).
The film gives De Niro the chance to offer more of his own perspective on many of the same subjects he’s explored through his work with Martin Scorsese , but it doesn’t feel like a knockoff Goodfellas or Mean Streets.
 On the contrary, it’s a surprisingly stirring coming-of-age drama about the different, sometimes conflicting places one can look for guidance throughout life.
A Bronx Tale is streaming on Sling TV for free.
Ronin (1998) Directed by John Frankenheimer and co-written by David Mamet, Ronin follows a team of former special government agents who are hired to pull off a dangerous heist.
De Niro stars in the film as a former CIA mercenary, and the actor brings appropriate levels of both grit and machismo to what is essentially a straightforward thriller that’s nonetheless executed at a high level. As far as De Niro’s action-movie efforts go, Ronin isn’t mentioned nearly as often as it should be, and it’s worth checking out just for its numerous, unforgettable car chase sequences.
Ronin streaming on Max.
Stardust (2007) Robert De Niro has a small, but scene-stealing role in this 2007 fantasy blockbuster from Kingsman: The Secret Service director Matthew Vaughn. Based on the Neil Gaiman novel of the same name, Stardust follows a young, adventure-seeking man ( Daredevil star Charlie Cox) who sets out to capture a fallen star, unaware that he isn’t the only one intent on doing so.
Along the way, he crosses paths with De Niro’s Captain Shakespeare, a skyship pirate who is far more jovial and delightfully theatrical than his reputation suggests. De Niro’s performance, along with Michelle Pfeiffer’s gloriously villainous turn as its witchy antagonist, are the main reasons to seek out Stardust if you haven’t already.
Stardust is streaming on Paramount+.
The Intern (2015) For the past 20 years or so, Robert De Niro has starred in more than a few forgettable, occasionally awful comedies. It is, therefore, worth mentioning one of the actor’s only recent comedies that’s actually really good: The Intern.
Written and directed by rom-com auteur Nancy Meyers, this underrated 2015 gem stars De Niro as a 70-something widower who takes a job as an intern at a trendy fashion website and quickly befriends its overworked CEO (Anne Hathaway). Together, De Niro and Hathaway have enough playful, charming chemistry to make The Intern ’s goofy, potentially saccharine premise work, which only helps the film’s many memorable comedic gags stand out that much more.
The Intern is streaming on Hulu.
Editors' Recommendations 5 movies like Five Nights at Freddy’s you should watch right now DiCaprio vs. De Niro: Who is the better Martin Scorsese collaborator? 5 theatrical movies you need to watch in October 3 underrated Robert Downey Jr. movies you should check out 5 underrated Ryan Reynolds movies you should watch now Entertainment Barbie vs. Oppenheimer aka “Barbenheimer” aka The Movie Event of the Summer. That’s all anyone can really talk about when it comes to July’s release schedule and for good reason. Between Barbie, Oppenheimer, and Mission: Impossible — Dead Reckoning Part One, this month features three of this year’s biggest and most promising blockbusters. They’re the kind of movies that, so far at least, seem powerful enough to actually draw audiences back to theaters.
But July isn’t just noteworthy for its blockbusters or even its high-profile genre films (see: Insidious: The Red Door, Talk to Me). The month features a handful of smaller titles premiering in theaters and on digital platforms that should be sought out as well. Therefore, just in case July didn’t already seem like an impressive enough month for movies, here are five alternatives to blockbusters like Barbie and Oppenheimer that you should check out in the coming weeks.
The Lesson — in theaters now THE LESSON | Official Trailer | Bleecker Street Entertainment Apple Studios hasn't been shy about loading up Apple TV+ with a large number of original films in order to fill out its cinematic library. So when an Apple movie is heading toward theaters with a wide release, it's a big deal. And it doesn't get much bigger than director Martin Scorsese dropping a new crime epic, Killers of the Flower Moon, with Leonardo DiCaprio and Robert De Niro in the leading roles. According to the new trailer's tagline, it's "based on a true American story," and it is. But it's not a happy story that makes the country look good. Instead, this is a dark tale of murder and greed.
Killers of the Flower Moon — Official Trailer Entertainment Being an anime fan has never been as convenient as it is now, with the genre enjoying a global renaissance in popularity. It's far from being the ultra-niche form of entertainment that longtime fans had to scour the internet for fan-dubbed rips of the latest series. Anime has only gotten more accessible over time, largely thanks to the rise of TV and movie streaming services.
Fans are now more acquainted than ever with contemporary hits, but there are plenty of more under-the-radar anime that are more than worth looking into. From genre-dedicated streamers like Crunchyroll to mainstream platforms like Netflix, these are excellent shows to watch that got buried under the hype of blockbuster productions.
91 Days Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
