Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix F1 Live Stream Stranger Things Season 5 Best New Movies Most Popular Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney+ UFC Live Stream Best Movies on Disney+ Home Entertainment Guides All of David Fincher’s movies, ranked from worst to best By Alex Welch Close Sony Pictures Releasing There aren’t many filmmakers alive who have built as impressive of a filmography as David Fincher. After making a name for himself with his music video work, Fincher slowly but surely emerged over the course of the 1990s as one of the most promising directors of his generation. In the decades that have followed, he’s only continued to garner more respect and fans, helming some of the most acclaimed films of the past 30 years. Now, 3 years after his last film, Fincher is returning this fall with The Killer.
11. Alien 3 (1992) 10. Panic Room (2002) 9. Mank (2020) 8. The Game (1997) 7. The Curious Case of Benjamin Button (2008) 6. Fight Club (1999) 5. Gone Girl (2014) 4. The Girl with the Dragon Tattoo (2011) 3. Seven (1995) 2. The Social Network (2010) 1. Zodiac (2007) The movie, an assassin thriller starring Michael Fassbender, marks Fincher’s return to the same world of darkly perverse crime stories that he’s spent many years of his career operating in. With that in mind, now seems like as good a time as any to look back at all of the movies that the filmmaker has made throughout his career — and rank them from worst to best.
11. Alien 3 (1992) 20th Century Fox Better than its reputation suggests but nowhere near its director’s best, Alien 3 is a haunting follow-up to its iconic sci-fi franchise’s first two installments that, sadly, never reaches its full potential.
Every Halloween movie, ranked from worst to best All The Exorcist movies & TV shows, ranked All the Saw movies, ranked from worst to best Marred by constant script rewrites and behind-the-scenes intervention from the studio executives overseeing its production, Alien 3 is the only film that David Fincher has made that doesn’t feel like the complete product of his own, notoriously meticulous vision. Fincher himself has publicly disowned the movie on numerous occasions, but despite its flaws, there’s still quite a lot to like about Alien 3 , which says more about the talent of its director than it does the film itself.
10. Panic Room (2002) Sony Pictures Releasing David Fincher’s first film of the 21st century is strangely one of his least memorable. A single-location thriller about a mother and daughter (played by Jodie Foster and Kristen Stewart) who are forced to hide after their home is invaded by burglars, Panic Room is more of an exercise in form than it is anything else.
On the one hand, that means it features more than its fair share of exciting visual moments and is, to its credit, an exceptionally entertaining and well-crafted thriller. On the other hand, that also makes it impossible for Panic Room to stand a chance against any of the remaining films on this list — many of which are rightly regarded as some of the best big-screen titles of their decades.
Panic Room is a good movie, but it isn’t that good.
9. Mank (2020) Netflix 2020’s Mank is partly David Fincher’s homage to the Golden Age era of 1930s Hollywood and partly a love letter to his father, Jack, who wrote its script. A behind-the-scenes look at the making of Citizen Kane , the film is as mean-spirited as any other that Fincher has made, but it’s also among his most messily introspective and contemplative.
Not everything about it works — its attempts to digitally recreate the look of a 1930s black-and-white film are among its most irksome problems — but Mank also isn’t as bad as some of Fincher’s die-hard fans would have you believe. As a movie about a middle-aged man learning to take accountability, it’s actually pretty effective and affecting, if also deeply flawed.
8. The Game (1997) PolyGram Films For years, The Game was widely regarded as David Fincher’s most underrated film. Nowadays, it may, as a direct consequence of its reputation, no longer be underrated, but that doesn’t mean it isn’t still a sneakily good psychological thriller. A drama about a man (played by Ant-Man and the Wasp: Quantumania ‘s Michael Douglas) whose participation in a strange game forces him to question how much of his life is real and how much of it is part of a larger conspiracy, The Game is Fincher at his most methodical and deviously playful.
The film doesn’t quite have the same staying power as some of the other titles on this list, but as is the case with every one of Fincher’s feature efforts, it offers plenty to admire and even more to be entertained by.
7. The Curious Case of Benjamin Button (2008) Paramount Pictures The Curious Case of Benjamin Button is, without a doubt, the most sentimental and sickly sweet film that David Fincher has ever made. Based on an F. Scott Fitzgerald short story about a man who ages backward, the film is overlong and, at times, tonally confused. But beyond all of its many narrative and tonal flaws, there’s more pure visual, gothic beauty on display throughout The Curious Case of Benjamin Button than there is in perhaps any of Fincher’s other films.
Shot by Top Gun: Maverick cinematographer Claudio Miranda, the film is a visually hypnotizing romance — an experiment in fantasy from a director who has spent most of his career mining both beauty and horror out of the sheer grittiness and mundanity of life. It’s an outlier, to be sure, but a welcome one.
6. Fight Club (1999) 20th Century Fox As anarchic and unapologetic as a movie can get, Fight Club made waves when it was released in 1999 and its reputation has only grown in the years since then. Behind the camera, David Fincher throws all the rules out the window — playing with time, frame rate, and visual blemishes to create a film that is as much a hallucinatory experience as it is a treatise on the merits of breaking things (power structures most of all).
The film’s effects have dulled a little over time, thanks to its messaging being co-opted by certain toxic communities and its transgressive nature being made to seem tamer by several of the movies and TV shows that have followed it. As a pure visual and narrative experience, though, Fight Club is still a down-and-dirty blast.
5. Gone Girl (2014) 20th Century Fox No mainstream American studio film of recent memory is quite as joyfully nihilistic and uncooperative as Gone Girl.
 Adapted from the popular Gillian Flynn novel of the same name, the David Fincher-directed film is simultaneously a Hitchcockian crime thriller, cultural satire, and suburban melodrama, and its power comes from just how seamlessly it blends all of those elements together.
It’s a far more fun time than it has any right to be, and it’s elevated above its purposefully trashy premise by both Fincher’s elegant, cool direction and Rosamund Pike’s cold-as-ice lead performance as Amy Dunne. At no point throughout his career has Fincher paid such blatant homage to past masters like Alfred Hitchcock and Brian De Palma, and never has he felt like a worthier successor to them.
4. The Girl with the Dragon Tattoo (2011) Sony Pictures Releasing David Fincher’s English-language take on The Girl with the Dragon Tattoo received a notably muted response when it was released. However, while it’s not quite as strong as the film that Fincher made before it, this 2011 thriller is an icy, perverse neo-noir that only seems to get better the more time passes. Slickly composed, edited, and constructed, the film is as propulsive as any that Fincher has ever made, and it features some of the director’s all-time greatest stylistic flourishes.
There are more memorable, striking moments scattered throughout Fincher’s Girl with the Dragon Tattoo than most mainstream crime thrillers of the past 10 years, but none highlight his brilliance quite as hilariously or hauntingly as the film’s perfectly timed use of Enya’s Orinoco Flow.
 If you know, you know, and if you don’t, well, you should find out.
3. Seven (1995) New Line Cinema Many could argue that David Fincher has only gotten better as he’s gotten older and, by and large, they’d be right to say so. With the exception of the top two entries on this list, though, none of Fincher’s late-career efforts have matched the sheer intensity, artistry, and compelling madness of Seven.
His sophomore feature and follow-up to Alien 3 is a serial killer thriller that vibrates with the kind of confidence and chip-on-the-shoulder angst of an artist who is desperate and intent, as Fincher was, to prove to everyone what he can actually do. The result is a pitch-black crime thriller that only seems to grow richer and more entrancing every time you watch it. Fincher has made a lot of great movies throughout his career, but few have ever topped the power of Seven.
2. The Social Network (2010) Sony Pictures Releasing No movie of the past 15 years has proven to be quite as prophetic or reflective of our current, tech-bro-dominated world as The Social Network.
 As close to a modern riff on Citizen Kane as any film has come, Fincher’s 2010 corporate drama dares to ask, “What if the world’s most powerful billionaires are just college boys who lashed out on the internet and were rewarded for it?” The film is chilling and acidic in all the right ways, and Fincher’s patient, methodical style elevates its story of the founding of Facebook to mythological heights. From Trent Reznor and Atticus Ross’ perfectly subdued score and Aaron Sorkin’s razor-sharp screenplay to Andrew Garfield and Jesse Eisenberg’s compellingly antithetical lead performances, everything just works in The Social Network , and it’s Fincher’s assured, masterful direction that ties it all together.
1. Zodiac (2007) Paramount Pictures David Fincher is a filmmaker known for his obsessiveness, so it makes a certain kind of sense that his best film is one about a relentless, madness-inducing pursuit of truth and justice. An enrapturing serial killer drama that doubles as an investigative thriller, Zodiac is the film that Fincher was born to make. 16 years after it was made, the movie hasn’t lost an ounce of its appeal.
It contains a hypnotic, darkly alluring power, one that reels you into the film’s depths no matter how many times you’ve seen it.
Zodiac is, like so many other Hollywood auteurs’ best movies, as confidently constructed and thought-provoking as it is entertaining. It isn’t just the best thing that Fincher has ever made — it’s also one of this century’s greatest films.
Editors' Recommendations Sofia Coppola’s movies, ranked worst to best All of The Conjuring Universe horror movies, ranked from worst to best 10 best horror movies of the 1980s, ranked 10 best anime movies of the 1990s All of Quentin Tarantino’s movies, ranked from worst to best Entertainment Nearly 40 years ago, Dutch director Paul Verhoeven moved to America after a successful career in his own country. And while Verhoeven's first American film, Flesh and Blood, wasn't a success, he rededicated himself to his goal and went on to helm some of the best sci-fi movies of the 1980s and '90s, including RoboCop, Total Recall, and Starship Troopers. Verhoeven also embraced the erotic thriller genre with one of his biggest hits, Basic Instinct, and an infamous flop, Showgirls.
For most of the 21st century, Verhoeven has put Hollywood in his rearview mirror while continuing to make movies in Europe. Verhoeven turned 85 last month, and he may not be done making movies yet. His last film, Benedetta, was released in 2021, but it's unlikely that Verhoeven will ever make another American flick despite his largely successful track record. To celebrate Verhoeven's contributions to cinema in our country, Digital Trends is taking a look at Verhoeven's best American movies ranked from worst to first. And you probably would have correctly guessed which film landed the bottom slot if it wasn't directly below this sentence.
7. Showgirls (1995) Entertainment The 1980s was a pretty stellar time for cinema, and this is especially true for science-fiction films. Some of the most iconic movie franchises of all time were born from the sci-fi hits released in that decade.
From wild, action-packed adventures to frightening cosmic horror to profound philosophical studies, the genre of Asimov, Clarke, and Heinlein made fantastic cinematic strides that ignited audiences' imaginations. Since TV and film continue to invoke people's nostalgia for this bygone era, it's only fair to take a look at the sci-fi films that made the '80s a special time for countless people.
10. RoboCop (1987) Entertainment In 1996, Tom Cruise starred in two movies. One of those movies, Jerry Maguire, earned the actor his second Oscar nomination. The other film was Mission: Impossible, a film that drastically changed the course of his career. As Ethan Hunt, Mission: Impossible elevated Cruise into a bonafide action star, as he started his transition from dramatic and comedic movies to more action and sci-fi films.
Thirty years later, the Mission: Impossible franchise remains one of the most consistent series in Hollywood. Mission: Impossible continues to raise the stakes with each entry as Cruise risks his life with each death-defying stunt, all in the name of entertainment. Before Mission: Impossible – Dead Reckoning Part One, we have a task for you to complete. Your mission, should you choose to accept it, is to read the Mission: Impossible movie rankings below and discover which one is the best in the series. Cue the theme song.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
