Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix F1 Live Stream Stranger Things Season 5 Best New Movies Most Popular Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney+ UFC Live Stream Best Movies on Disney+ Home Entertainment Guides Sofia Coppola’s movies, ranked worst to best By Alex Welch Close Focus Features Over the past 24 years, Sofia Coppola has built one of the most impressive filmographies of any filmmaker of her generation. After directing one of the most striking feature debuts of the 1990s, Coppola went on to make some of the best movies of the 2000s. While the 2010s marked a bit of a creative lull for the filmmaker, she’s returned this year with the new A24 drama Priscilla , which has already emerged as one of the fall’s most acclaimed new releases.
9. A Very Murray Christmas (2015) 8. The Bling Ring (2013) 7. On the Rocks (2020) 6. The Beguiled (2017) 5. Somewhere (2010) 4. Priscilla (2023) 3. The Virgin Suicides (1999) 2. Marie Antoinette (2006) 1. Lost in Translation (2003) The Priscilla Presley biopic, which explores its subject’s perspective on her famous real-life relationship with the King of Rock and Roll, Elvis Presley, sees Coppola return to some of the ideas and themes that have interested her throughout her entire career. For that reason, it seems fitting to use Priscilla ’s release this week as an opportunity to look back at Coppola’s career and rank all of her films from worst to best.
9. A Very Murray Christmas (2015) Ali Goldstein / Netflix It feels strange to even include A Very Murray Christmas on this list. The 56-minute Netflix special is the only thing Sofia Coppola has ever directed that doesn’t feel like she made it.
All of David Fincher’s movies, ranked from worst to best The 5 best duos in action movies, ranked All of The Conjuring Universe horror movies, ranked from worst to best The special packs enough highlights into its relatively short runtime, including a showstopping performance of Christmas (Baby Please Come Home) by Maya Rudolph, to justify its existence, and it establishes a fascination with New York City that Coppola would go on to explore further a few years later. However, it is, perhaps, the only title on this list that doesn’t feel like an essential entry in Coppola’s filmography, which is why it deserves to rank where it does.
8. The Bling Ring (2013) A24 On paper, a Sofia Coppola-directed film about a series of real-life LA burglaries that targeted some of the world’s biggest celebrities seems like a recipe for success. Who else, after all, could be more well-suited for exploring the toxicity of celebrity culture than the daughter of one of the world’s most famous and well-connected filmmakers? Unfortunately, The Bling Ring never lives up to its own promise. The film contains a handful of well-calibrated stylistic flourishes and unforgettable moments, but it never grows beyond its surface-level ideas. It isn’t a complete miss, though, and the fact that it ranks so low on this list just speaks even more to the quality of Coppola’s filmography.
7. On the Rocks (2020) A24/Apple TV+ On the Rocks is a low-key father-daughter comedy that is, well, exactly that and nothing more. Featuring one of Bill Murray’s most charming late-career performances and a moody, darkly rich aesthetic, it’s a perfectly fine, lightly comedic romp that occasionally transcends its own limited expectations for itself. Like A Very Murray Christmas , it functions better as a love letter to the New York City of old than it does as a showcase for its legendary star.
While it doesn’t leave much of a lasting mark, this 2020 comedy is worth seeking out solely for its few moments of greatness, which include a late-night drive through the streets of New York in a cherry-red convertible that will single-handedly remind you why Coppola has long been regarded as one of the best visual stylists of her generation.
6. The Beguiled (2017) Focus Features Its unwillingness to deal with some of the racial elements of both its source material and its Don Siegel-directed 1971 predecessor aside, Sofia Coppola’s The Beguiled is an alluringly moody and sensual Southern Gothic thriller. Boasting one of the most impressive ensembles that Coppola has ever assembled on-screen (scene-stealers include The Banshees of Inisherin ‘s Colin Farrell, Nicole Kidman, and Elle Fanning), the film sees its director dip her toes into a world that is more openly sinister than any she’d previously explored, all while navigating the same tricky social dynamics between men and women that have long fascinated her.
It’s a visually staggering drama — one that slowly. but surely sinks its claws into you until it has you fully locked in its venomous, vicelike grip. It isn’t perfect and its scope is, as many have previously noted, more limited than it should be, but as a foray into the kind of genre filmmaking Coppola had long avoided, The Beguiled is a remarkably effective experiment.
5. Somewhere (2010) Focus Features Somewhere is a stripped-down, decidedly mundane look at modern life. Stylistically, the film feels like a sun-drenched LA counter to Sofia Coppola’s neon-lit, nocturnal 2003 masterpiece Lost in Translation , which is similarly preoccupied with the suffocating nature of urban loneliness. At the same time, thanks to its distaste toward West Coast vanity and celebrity culture at large, it feels like an acid-tinged response to Marie Antoinette.
Coming four years after that film, which saw Coppola achieve a level of visual extravagance still unmatched by many of her contemporaries, Somewhere is a full-throated rejection of luxury and an embrace of the kind of unattractive, vulnerable connections that fill our lives with meaning. It is, without a doubt, the least sexy film that Coppola has ever made, and it only grows more profound the longer one spends with it and the further into her career its maker gets.
4. Priscilla (2023) A24 A companion piece to both Marie Antoinette and The Virgin Suicides , Priscilla is a predictably stunning, surprisingly somber treatise on the dangers of achieving one’s teenage dream. Based on Priscilla Presley’s 1985 memoir, Elvis and Me , the film follows Cailee Spaeny’s young lead as she’s whisked away to a Memphis castle by the man of her dreams, Elvis Presley (Jacob Elordi), only to realize too late that it’s just as much of a cage as the military base she’d grown up on.
Lit and structured like a gothic fairy tale, the film is a strikingly quiet exploration of the agonizing, confusing transition from adolescence to adulthood — its third act is a movingly optimistic counter to the all-consuming darkness of The Virgin Suicides ‘ finale. If falling in love really is like a dream, Priscilla proves what a painful, yet vital step it is when you finally, inevitably wake up.
3. The Virgin Suicides (1999) Paramount Pictures Based on a 1993 novel about a group of doomed teenage sisters and the young boys who admire them from afar, The Virgin Suicides is a perfect, if haunting, entry into Sofia Coppola’s filmography. It bears all the same hallmarks as her later work, including a primarily synth-pop soundtrack by Air and an unrivaled talent for capturing the inner lives of young American girls on-screen, but it also vibrates with the intense, infectious energy of an artist who has finally found her calling.
In bringing its source material’s morbid story to life, Coppola employs a fragmented structure and a soft light aesthetic that allows the film to feel alternately like a hazy dream and a distant nightmare. Rarely has a director’s debut feature ever felt as assured and beguilingly elusive.
2. Marie Antoinette (2006) Sony Pictures Releasing Unfairly derided when it was released for its anachronistic song choices and unexpectedly sympathetic look at one of history’s most widely hated elites, Marie Antoinette is a bombastic, pop-rock historical drama — and one of the best films of the past 20 years. Shot on location at Versailles, Sofia Coppola’s third directorial effort reframes its infamous titular subject not as a stuffy, airheaded queen, but as a teenage girl who is treated like a piece of property and then given access to the kind of luxurious lifestyle few could imagine living.
In doing so, Coppola expands her female-minded perspective past the limitations of her own circumstances — forcing viewers to reconsider any preexisting opinions they might have had about some of the world’s most oft-vilified women. Featuring a career-best performance from Kirsten Dunst, Marie Antoinette is a vibrant example of historical reclamation and an even more stunning piece of pure, untainted artistic expression.
1. Lost in Translation (2003) Focus Features It isn’t often the case that a filmmaker’s most well-known movie is their best, but when it comes to Sofia Coppola, there is no better entry in her filmography than Lost in Translation.
 The Oscar-winning 2003 film is simultaneously the most personal movie that the writer-director has ever made and the most universal. Few films have ever depicted the quietly numbing effects of loneliness as beautifully, and even fewer have demonstrated the importance and power of connection with as much wisdom and understated grace.
Anchored by the best performance of Bill Murray’s career, the film is a delicate, masterful drama that hasn’t lost an ounce of its power in the 20 years since its release. The same goes for its famous climax, which brings its story to a conclusion that manages to strike a difficult, yet perfect balance between ambiguous and satisfying.
Priscilla is now playing in theaters.
Editors' Recommendations The 10 best characters in the Hunger Games movies, ranked 7 best movie parodies ever, ranked Every Halloween movie, ranked from worst to best 10 best Martin Scorsese movies, ranked 5 best football movies ever, ranked Entertainment In a theatrical landscape dominated by franchises, sequels, and IP, horror remains one of the most reliable genres at the box office. Audiences have proven they will come out to the theater for horror movies. Classics like Jaws and The Exorcist are among the biggest horror hits of all time. The horror genre also has spawned numerous success stories of low-budget films churning huge profits. Notable examples include Paranormal Activity and The Blair Witch Project.
However, not every horror film can be a hit. Some movies flop hard at the box office, with losses exceeding $100 million. Below, we listed the seven biggest horror movie bombs of all time, ranked by their estimated losses adjusted for inflation.
Entertainment Action movies have long been some of the most popular and beloved pictures in cinema history, and they wouldn't have gotten to where they are today without some incredible innovators. Acclaimed directors like John Woo (Face/Off), the Wachowskis (The Matrix), and John McTiernan (Die Hard) have given audiences some memorable movies featuring explosions, shootouts, car crashes, sword battles, and kung fu fights, and these all sometimes happen in the same scene.
But these films aren't just shots of mindless action spliced together. Out of the many directors who have created countless action movies, only a select few have had enough precision, resources, and imagination to make beautiful and thoughtful masterpieces of the genre. Specifically, these five directors brought audiences some of cinema's greatest action movies, and their work should serve as examples for film students who aspire to do the same.
5. James Cameron Entertainment The 1980s were a big time for horror cinema. Many bloody slashers, genre-benders, and video nasties popped up in this decade, and the fact many of them are so beloved has been a significant factor in the wave of '80s nostalgia that has permeated pop culture in recent years.
And with Halloween just around the corner, horror fans will likely be breaking out these classics this season, as they are hands-down the best scary pictures to have risen from the '80s.
10. The Evil Dead (1981) Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
