Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix F1 Live Stream Stranger Things Season 5 Best New Movies Most Popular Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney+ UFC Live Stream Best Movies on Disney+ Home Entertainment Guides The Creator’s ending, explained By Alex Welch Close 20th Century Studios Warning: This article contains spoilers for The Creator (2023).
Early in The Creator , its hero, Joshua (John David Washington), is assigned by his military superiors to track down and kill the mysterious figure known as “Nimata,” the creator of a new AI weapon that’s supposedly capable of ending the war between the anti-AI U.S. and the robotic and human civilians of New Asia. It’s during this mission that Joshua crosses paths with the weapon in question, an AI child named Alphie (Madeleine Yuna Voyles), who has the power to remotely shut down any technological devices in close proximity to her.
While Joshua may be officially searching for Alphie and her creator, the only reason he’s on his mission is to reunite with his recently spotted wife, Maya (Gemma Chan), an ally of the AI whom he previously believed to be dead. In all actuality, he couldn’t be less interested in finding or killing the human known as Nimata. At the end of The Creator ’s second act, however, Joshua learns that Maya and Nimata are the same person and that his wife used the genetic code of her and Joshua’s child to create Alphie. After the U.S. subsequently launches a devastating surprise attack on the AI resistance’s central New Asian base, Joshua and Alfie manage to escape to the peaceful, remote mountain village where Maya is said to be located.
The Hunger Games: The Ballad of Songbirds & Snakes’ ending, explained Upload season 3’s ending, explained The Walking Dead: Daryl Dixon ending, explained Once there, Joshua learns that Maya has been living in a comatose state on life support ever since the attack that separated them in the first place and that she has been monitored solely by the village’s AI monks, whose programming prevents them from harming her. When the U.S. military catches up with them, Joshua is forced to shut off Maya’s life support just before he and Alphie are separated and taken back to the States. Immediately afterward, the peaceful village Maya called home is bombed into oblivion by NOMAD, the U.S. space station that also functions as a weapon of mass destruction.
20th Century Studios Several days later, Joshua manages to outsmart his superiors and he leads Alphie on a mission to NOMAD itself. Once on board the station, Alphie uses her powers to permanently shut it down. In doing so, she prevents NOMAD from successfully bombing every remaining AI safe haven throughout the world — an attack that would have presumably wiped the entire region of New Asia off the map. Unfortunately, before they get the chance to leave together, Alphie and Joshua find themselves on opposite sides of an escape pod. Joshua, looking at the AI visage of his and Maya’s unborn daughter, says a tearful goodbye to Alphie before sending her and her escape pod back to Earth.
Before NOMAD is totally destroyed, however, Joshua gets his final wish granted. Walking through the space station’s greenhouse field, he comes face-to-face with an AI version of Maya that was, unbeknownst to him, awoken by Alphie just minutes earlier. As NOMAD collapses around them, Joshua and Maya embrace, fulfilling the former’s desire to hold his wife one more time — on the very space station that he and Alphie had previously referred to as “Heaven,” no less.
On Earth, Alphie emerges from her escape pod into an already-changed world. The young simulant watches as dozens and dozens of humans and androids alike begin to swarm the downed remains of NOMAD — celebrating the end of its tyranny over the world. As Alphie watches these celebrations begin, she slowly but surely begins to smile — and that’s when The Creator cuts to black.
Oren Soffer / 20th Century Studios The Creator wisely doesn’t end on too concrete of a final note. Instead, the film concludes at the exact moment when a new world has been birthed — one potentially free of the constant war, violence, and bigotry that had defined its previous era. It’s an ending that celebrates the destruction of the modern military-industrial complex and marvels at the possibilities that might lie in a world free of such constant, manufactured conflict.
As was the case with both of Edwards’ previous films, Rogue One: A Star Wars Story and Godzilla , The Creator ’s ending is one marred by sacrifice and destruction. Sometimes, though, the only way to create something new is to break what’s already there.
The Creator is now playing in theaters.
Editors' Recommendations Thanksgiving’s ending, explained The Marvels’ ending, explained The Morning Show season 3 ending, explained The Fall of the House of Usher’s ending, explained Only Murders in the Building season 3 ending, explained Entertainment Warning: This article contains spoilers for A Haunting in Venice (2023).
Are ghosts real? That question is at the center of one of the most anticipated movies of the season, A Haunting in Venice, Kenneth Branagh’s latest outing Hercule Poirot mystery. Loosely based on Agatha Christie’s Hallowe'en Party, the film spends most of its time at a Venetian palazzo one rain-soaked Halloween night. Summoned there by his friend and Christie-esque crime writer, Ariadne Oliver (Tina Fey), Branagh’s retired Poirot finds himself attending a seance run by the mischievous Joyce Reynolds (Everything Everywhere All at Once's Michelle Yeoh) at the behest of the palazzo’s owner, Rowena Drake (Kelly Reilly), a singer who has been mourning the tragic death of her daughter, Alicia (Rowan Robinson), for over a year.
Entertainment Warning: This article contains major spoilers for The Nun 2 (2023).
The Nun 2 begins four years after the events of its predecessor. When it picks back up with Sister Irene (Taissa Farmiga), she’s taken to living a peaceful life in a countryside convent. Her peace is disrupted by the return of her former, thought-to-be-vanquished demonic foe, Valak (Bonnie Aarons), whose recent killing spree through Western Europe has caught the attention of the Catholic Church.
Entertainment THE EQUALIZER 3 - Official Red Band Trailer (HD) In 2014, director Antoine Fuqua and Denzel Washington resurrected The Equalizer TV series as a feature film, with Washington stepping into the role of Robert McCall, an aging ex-CIA agent who uses his immense skills to help the helpless and bring down the people who believe that they are above the law. Nearly a decade later, McCall's story is coming to an end this week with The Equalizer 3, which reunites Washington and Fuqua for one last ride.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
