Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix F1 Live Stream Stranger Things Season 5 Best New Movies Most Popular Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney+ UFC Live Stream Best Movies on Disney+ Home Entertainment Guides Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? 3 action movies on Hulu you need to watch in November By Blair Marnell Close If you’re coming to Hulu for your action fix, then you’ve come to the right place. Hulu may be owned and operated by Disney, but this streaming service is about as far from the Mickey Mouse Club as you can get. Hulu has all of the R-rated action flicks that just wouldn’t fit in at Disney+ , Deadpool movies and Logan notwithstanding.
Blade II (2001) Men in Black (1997) Die Hard (1988) This month, two of our action picks are based on comic books, while the third is an all-timer in the action genre that won’t be hanging around on Hulu for much longer. These are the three action movies on Hulu that you need to watch in November.
Blade II (2001) New Line Cinema Guillermo del Toro has never hidden his love for comic book movies, but some fans tend to forget that the Hellboy director also helmed Blade II.
 Wesley Snipes reprises his role as the half-human/half-vampire, Blade, alongside a pre- Walking Dead Norman Reedus as his new sidekick, Scud. Their first mission in this movie is to rescue Blade’s old mentor, Abraham Whistler (Kris Kristofferson), and cure him of his vampire infection.
5 bad 2000s action movies that you still need to watch right now 3 dramas on Prime Video you need to watch in November 6 best TV shows you need to watch in December However, the newly united trio has a much greater challenge when a new breed of vampires called Reapers threatens both humanity and vampires with a fast-spreading virus. The vampire lord Eli Damaskinos (Thomas Kretschmann) offers to make a truce with Blade against their mutual enemy if he teams up with the Bloodpack, a group of highly skilled vampire warriors who were assembled to kill Blade himself. One of the team’s members is Damaskinos’ own daughter, Nyssa (Leonor Varela), a beautiful vampire whose attraction to Blade is far from one-sided. But in this case, the enemies of Blade’s enemy are definitely not his friends.
Watch Blade II on Hulu.
Men in Black (1997) Sony Pictures All three of the Men in Black films starring Will Smith and Tommy Lee Jones are back on Hulu this month, but we have a soft spot for the original. Smith and Jones seem to effortlessly play off each other, and never more so than when Agents K and J are first teamed up in this origin story. Even the supporting cast turn in strong performances, including Vincent D’Onofrio’s hilarious turn as the film’s villain, Edgar, and Linda Fiorentino’s intriguing part as Dr. Laurel Weaver. Even Monk star Tony Shalhoub has a small part as an alien pawnbroker, Jack Jeebs.
The reason that Men in Black works so well is that it hits the ground running and it uses Smith’s J as an audience surrogate for the weirdness of the MiB organization itself. The film is so fast-paced that it’s over in just 98 minutes, and it leaves us wanting more every time.
Watch Men in Black on Hulu.
Die Hard (1988) 20th Century Studios / 20th Century Studios “Come out to the coast, we’ll get together, have a few laughs…” And oh, what laughs we’ve had with Die Hard , which is still a top-tier action flick 35 years after its release. Ideally, we’d like to stream this Christmas classic in December, but Hulu only has it through November 30. So make your plans to revisit it this month.
The beauty of this film is how well-constructed it is. The audience is with John McClane (Bruce Willis) every step of the way as his attempt to reconcile with his wife, Holly (Bonnie Bedelia), is interrupted when Hans Gruber (Alan Rickman) and his group of terrorists seize the Nakatomi building. Suddenly, McClane is the only cop within miles who can help free the hostages and save his wife. All in time for Christmas. “Ho, ho, ho.” Watch Die Hard on Hulu.
Editors' Recommendations 3 movies leaving Peacock in November you have to watch Don’t let these 3 November hidden streaming movie gems fly under your radar 3 TV shows on Tubi you should watch in November 3 sci-fi movies on Paramount+ you need to watch in November Don’t let these 3 hidden gem November streaming TV shows fly under your radar Hulu Streaming Services Entertainment Long before there were streaming services, PBS was bringing together programming from all over the world to go along with original documentaries, news programming, and scripted dramas. The best part is that PBS was -- and continues to be -- free of charge. You don't need to be a PBS member to watch some of the best documentary programs that you can find, but it would definitely help these teams continue making the shows that you want to watch.
For this month, we've chosen the three PBS shows that you should watch in November, including a harrowing look at the war in Ukraine, an extremely enjoyable history of ninjas, and a documentary about the groundbreaking women's sports rule Title IX, which paved the way for female athletes to get the spotlight that they deserve. For more PBS shows, you can check out our roundup of everything coming to PBS in November.
Frontline: 20 Days in Mariupol Entertainment Who's in the mood for an action film? Netflix has an impressive slate of action films that only improves with the addition of new films every month. New arrivals include Liam Neeson's Cold Pursuit, David Fincher's The Killer, and Adam Wingard's Godzilla vs. Kong.
This November, we curated a list of three action movies you need to watch on Netflix. Our action picks include one of the best war movies ever made, an underrated Clint Eastwood thriller, and Michael Bay at his finest.
Saving Private Ryan (1998) Entertainment Generally, we tend to give streamers the benefit of the doubt when it comes to their film libraries. But there's no getting around the fact that the science fiction selection on Peacock is awful. For every Back to the Future, there are dozens of low-budget schlock-fests like Atlantic Rim, Lord of the Elves, and Dino King. Those are all real movies on Peacock, but they aren't worth your time. And unfortunately, there's nothing new on Peacock in November in the popular genre.
With such a thin selection to work with, it can be truly challenging to find sci-fi flicks on Peacock that are worth watching. But after an exhaustive search, we've come up with the following three sci-fi movies on Peacock that you need to watch in November.
Freejack (1992) Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
