Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix F1 Live Stream Stranger Things Season 5 Best New Movies Most Popular Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney+ UFC Live Stream Best Movies on Disney+ Home Entertainment Guides Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? 3 rom-coms on Hulu you need to watch in November By Blair Marnell Close Much like romance itself, finding rom-coms on Hulu is a lot harder than it should be. Disney’s mature streamer is pretty good about telling us what’s new on Hulu , but less so when it comes to rom-coms in specific. Romantic drama films get their own category in Hulu’s search engine, but rom-coms do not.
The Wedding Singer (1998) The Hating Game (2021) Sleeping with Other People (2015) Fortunately, it’s not impossible to find a good romantic comedy or three on Hulu.
 This month, our picks include Adam Sandler’s best rom-com, a modern take on a conventional office romance, and an independent film with a cast to die for. These are the three rom-coms on Hulu that you need to watch in November.
The Wedding Singer (1998) New Line Cinema Adam Sandler has had a lot of comedic duds over the last quarter century, but he deserves credit for the films that land.
The Wedding Singer remains one of Sandler’s best movies more than 25 years after its release, thanks in large part to his chemistry with Drew Barrymore. Sandler plays the titular wedding singer, Robbie Hart, a man who is abandoned by his own fiancée, Linda (Angela Featherstone), on the day of their wedding because she feels that he gave up too easily on his dreams of being a rock star.
Don’t let these 3 November hidden streaming movie gems fly under your radar 3 TV shows on Tubi you should watch in November 3 sci-fi movies on Paramount+ you need to watch in November While nursing a broken heart, Robbie befriends Julia Sullivan (Barrymore) and helps her plan her wedding to Glenn Gulia (Matthew Glave). But the more time that Robbie and Julia spend together, the more passionate they become about each other, even if they have trouble getting on the same page for a potential relationship.
Watch The Wedding Singer on Hulu.
The Hating Game (2021) Vertical Entertainment We predict that there are a lot of romantic comedies are in Lucy Hale’s future. And she has a pretty good one right here in The Hating Game.
 In this film, Hale plays Lucy Hutton, a young woman who works for a book publisher that has just merged with its rival. With the merger comes Joshua “Josh” Templeman (Austin Stowell), a man whom Lucy initially despises. In fact, Lucy and Josh hate each other so much that they make a bet: whoever doesn’t get the promotion in their department has to quit the company.
Yet, over time, neither Lucy nor Josh can deny that they are attracted to each other. However, Lucy begins to suspect that Josh is using their potential romance to screw her out of a job, and she may respond in kind.
Watch The Hating Game on Hulu.
Sleeping with Other People (2015) IFC Films For a rom-com that barely anyone saw, Sleeping With Other People has a ridiculously stacked cast including Alison Brie ( Spin Me Around ) and Jason Sudeikis ( Ted Lasso ) in the leading roles, plus Adam Scott, Katherine Waterston, Natasha Lyonne, Adam Brody, Amanda Peet, and Jason Mantzoukas in strong supporting roles.
Sudeikis and Brie star as Jake Harper and Elaine “Lainey” Dalton, respectively. They’re two college friends who lost their virginity to each other years ago. In the present, Lainey and Jake reunite with each other at a sex addicts meeting as they both attempt to course correct their lives. And while the duo clearly has romantic feelings for each other, both Lainey and Jake are soon swept up in other relationships that may keep them apart from each other forever.
Watch Sleeping With Other People on Hulu.
Editors' Recommendations 3 movies leaving Peacock in November you have to watch 3 dramas on Prime Video you need to watch in November 6 best TV shows you need to watch in December Don’t let these 3 hidden gem November streaming TV shows fly under your radar 3 PBS shows you should watch in November Hulu Streaming Services Entertainment Who's in the mood for an action film? Netflix has an impressive slate of action films that only improves with the addition of new films every month. New arrivals include Liam Neeson's Cold Pursuit, David Fincher's The Killer, and Adam Wingard's Godzilla vs. Kong.
This November, we curated a list of three action movies you need to watch on Netflix. Our action picks include one of the best war movies ever made, an underrated Clint Eastwood thriller, and Michael Bay at his finest.
Saving Private Ryan (1998) Entertainment Generally, we tend to give streamers the benefit of the doubt when it comes to their film libraries. But there's no getting around the fact that the science fiction selection on Peacock is awful. For every Back to the Future, there are dozens of low-budget schlock-fests like Atlantic Rim, Lord of the Elves, and Dino King. Those are all real movies on Peacock, but they aren't worth your time. And unfortunately, there's nothing new on Peacock in November in the popular genre.
With such a thin selection to work with, it can be truly challenging to find sci-fi flicks on Peacock that are worth watching. But after an exhaustive search, we've come up with the following three sci-fi movies on Peacock that you need to watch in November.
Freejack (1992) Entertainment Sci-fi films never go out of style. From Alien and Back to the Future to Dune and Blade Runner, sci-fi films continue to improve thanks to new technology. Many sci-fi films find a home on Netflix and wind up on the streamer's 10 most popular movies list. Films like Don't Look Up, The Adam Project, and Bird Box are 10 of the most popular English films on Netflix ever.
The Adam Project is one of our picks for sci-fi movies to watch in November. Other selections include the epic sequel to Godzilla: King of the Monsters, and a sci-fi thriller about a pilot's fight for survival against the dinosaurs.
Godzilla vs. Kong (2021) Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
