Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Share Wi-Fi Password on iPhone How to Restart iPhone Screen Record on iPhone Back Up an iPhone Clear Cache on iPhone Share Location on iPhone Home Mobile Features iPhone 16: 12 things I want to see in the next iPhone By Bryan M. Wolfe Close Apple iPhone 14 Pro (left) and iPhone 15 Pro Max Andy Boxall / Digital Trends With the recent release of the iPhone 15 series, including the iPhone 15 Pro Max , it’s natural to start anticipating Apple’s upcoming range of smartphones — the iPhone 16 series — which is expected to be launched in September 2024.
120Hz screens on all iPhone 16 models Faster USB-C charging Camera upgrades for the iPhone 16 Pro New iPhone sizes Solid-state buttons Under-display Face ID Improvements to the Action button Titanium iPhones for everyone Big color changes for the iPhone 16 Pro A carbon-neutral iPhone Smaller iPhone love Better battery life And now, we wait Although not much information is available about these devices yet, rumors are already spreading, and wish lists are being made. The list below shows a combination of features we anticipate seeing on the iPhone 16 and those we’d love to see.
120Hz screens on all iPhone 16 models Prakhar Khanna / Digital Trends Mobile device display refresh rates have undergone significant improvements over the years. A higher refresh rate means that the display hardware updates its buffer more frequently, resulting in a smoother experience, particularly for gaming. Currently, most top-performing smartphones have 120Hz screens, while some are even pushing into the 144Hz and 165Hz range, like the Motorola Edge Plus.
Apple iPhone Pro models have shipped with 120Hz screens since the iPhone 13 Pro series launched in 2021 with ProMotion. Unfortunately, the regular models, including the iPhone 15 and iPhone 15 Plus , are stuck at 60Hz. Hopefully, this changes with the iPhone 16 series.
Faster USB-C charging Christine Romero-Chan / Digital Trends The iPhone 15 series has finally adopted USB-C technology, which allows data transfer between devices that’s much faster than with the previous Lightning connector. However, the charging speed hasn’t improved with this change. Future iPhone models are expected to address this issue, but whether this will happen with the iPhone 16 or later iterations is unclear.
Camera upgrades for the iPhone 16 Pro iPhone 15 Pro Max Andy Boxall / Digital Trends Apple finally upgraded its telephoto camera on the iPhone 15 Pro Max this year with 5x optical zoom. Unfortunately, the regular iPhone 15 Pro was left out and is stuck with the same 3x telephoto camera we’ve had for a while.
The good news? Rumor has it that the iPhone 16 Pro Max and the smaller iPhone 16 Pro will both have improved telephoto cameras next year.
 Considering this is an area that was completely overlooked for the iPhone 15 Pro, the iPhone 16 Pro could be a big deal in this regard.
New iPhone sizes 9to5Mac Rumors suggest Apple will do something it hasn’t done in a few years: increase the display size for its iPhone line. Not surprisingly, these changes will probably come to the Pro models first. At least one rumor says the iPhone 16 Pro will go from 6.1 inches to 6.3 inches, while the iPhone 16 Pro Max, which may be called the iPhone 16 Ultra , will see its display increase to 6.9 inches from 6.7 inches.
Not everyone may be pleased with this news, as some iPhone enthusiasts believe that the current size of 6.7 inches is already too large. The primary concern is that the largest iPhone usually has the most advanced features. Therefore, regardless of personal preference, one must opt for a larger phone to access these features.
Solid-state buttons Joe Maring / Digital Trends The next iPhones may not have physical buttons and could feature solid-state buttons controlled through haptic feedback instead. These buttons will work similarly to the old iPhone Home button, which was transformed from an actual button to a glass button.
Although solid-state controls were initially rumored to be a part of the iPhone 15 series, technical challenges may have caused a delay. It’s likely solid-state buttons are still coming to the iPhone at some point, and it’s very likely they’ll debut on the iPhone 16.
Under-display Face ID Andy Boxall / Digital Trends Some Apple fans have been waiting for ages for the company to introduce under-display authentication tools that can be controlled by fingerprint or Face ID. Some sources say that Apple may add under-display Face ID to the iPhone Pro series, meaning that the Dynamic Island could be phased out. The Dynamic Island first appeared on the iPhone 14 Pro series in 2022 and became available on the entire iPhone 15 lineup this year.
Apple’s commitment to the Dynamic Island makes it highly unlikely that it will be eliminated on next year’s iPhones to bring online under-display Face ID. However, it might be possible in the future.
Improvements to the Action button Joe Maring / Digital Trends The iPhone 15 Pro series has a customizable Action button that replaces the traditional Ring/Silent switch. The button acts as a shortcut that you can assign different actions to. For instance, you could set up the Action button to open the Camera app, initiate Voice Memos, and much more.
However, the Action button can only perform a single task. It would be great if future iPhones would allow users to assign multiple functions to the Action button — such as double-press and triple-press options. It’s unclear if Apple will expand the Action button’s functionality like this with the iPhone 16 Pro series, but I certainly hope it does.
Titanium iPhones for everyone Christine Romero-Chan / Digital Trends Apple made an essential change in its latest iPhone Pro models by replacing the stainless steel with titanium. However, the less expensive aluminum is still being used for the regular models, and this is expected to continue for at least one more cycle.
It would be great to see all iPhones made of titanium eventually. After all, titanium is twice as strong as aluminum, and it still feels really nice without being too heavy. The likelihood of all-titanium iPhones for the iPhone 16 series doesn’t seem particularly likely, be we can certainly dream.
Big color changes for the iPhone 16 Pro Joe Maring / Digital Trends The Phone Pro series has always featured more reserved and understated color choices than the regular iPhone lineup. However, do the color options always have to be so conservative? Wouldn’t it be nice if Apple introduced brighter and more fun colors for its most expensive handsets while still offering traditional black and white titanium as options? What if we could have the first iPhone Pro in Product Red? Any takers? There’s no indication from Apple that the iPhone 16 Pro will get a radical color makeover, but let’s hope it happens.
A carbon-neutral iPhone Andy Boxall / Digital Trends Apple released its first-ever carbon-neutral products this year in a significant move toward environmental sustainability. The Apple Watch Series 9 and Apple Watch Ultra 2 are not only sleek and stylish, but they are also eco-friendly.
Given Apple’s commitment to reducing its carbon footprint, it’s no surprise that a carbon-neutral iPhone is in the works. Whether it happens in 2024, 2025, or later, it’s coming, and it will be interesting to see what that entails.
Smaller iPhone love iPhone 14 Plus (left) and iPhone SE (2022) Andy Boxall / Digital Trends As iPhones get bigger, perhaps it’s time for Apple to give more attention to the smallest iPhone in its lineup, the third-generation iPhone SE. Released in spring 2022, this 4.7-inch phone has always occupied some weird space in the iPhone lineup. Though technically not an iPhone 13, which was Apple’s flagship device at its release, the current iPhone SE nonetheless features many of that phone’s features, including the A15 Bionic chip.
In the future, it might be wise for Apple to consider dropping the “SE” from the name of this product and adding a revised model to the regular iPhone lineup. Naming it an “iPhone mini” may not be practical, especially considering the poor reception of the iPhone 12 mini and iPhone 13 mini. However, a name that uses the iPhone 16 branding could help to acknowledge that not all customers prefer larger iPhones.
Better battery life Joe Maring / Digital Trends Everyone wants their iPhone to last longer between charges. With this in mind, rumors suggest upcoming iPhones could use stacked battery technology. In doing so, they could offer higher capacity and a longer life span. The forthcoming Samsung Galaxy S24 could also be using this technology.
Longer battery life is always appreciated, and Apple should use the iPhone 16 lineup for big upgrades on this front.
And now, we wait Joe Maring / Digital Trends Will all of these wishes come true? Are all of these just pipe dreams? It probably falls somewhere in the middle, but the fact remains that there should be a lot to look forward to with the iPhone 16 family.
We aren’t expecting the iPhone 16 series until sometime in September 2024, but we should start learning more about it over the coming weeks and months. And I can’t wait to see how it all comes together.
Editors' Recommendations The iPad is going to get an amazing new feature in 2024 It’s finally happening — your iPhone is getting RCS in 2024 The iPhone is getting out of control This iPhone 15 and iPhone 14 camera test is closer than I expected I love Apple, but it’s totally wrong about iMessage and RCS Apple Apple iPhone Features Mobile Believe it or not, Apple didn’t always have Siri. Siri originally belonged to SRI International, which created Siri, Inc. in 2007. Then in April 2010, Apple acquired Siri, which became a key component of the iPhone 4S that launched in 2011.
Ever since then, Siri has continued to evolve at Apple, for better or for worse. While the point of Siri is to make your life easier with hands-free use of your iPhone or Apple Watch, it’s far from perfect. Siri often misunderstands you and results in hilarious requests, or is just incapable of doing what you need it to do, sometimes because of a poor connection.
Mobile I really didn’t want to put my iPhone 15 Pro Max in a case. Cases add bulk, reduce the attractiveness, and wouldn’t allow me to enjoy the vastly improved ergonomics or the feel of the titanium band around the chassis. So I vowed not to do it.
However, I’m also realistic. My expensive new phone needs some protection, especially when it is being shaken around in my bag or placed on a table. The solution came from the past, as the product I chose brought me back to the way I protected the very first iPhone models I owned when cases were far less common than they are today.
The return of the pouch Mobile It could take a while before Android phones allow satellite connectivity to assist users in emergency scenarios, thanks in no part to Qualcomm canceling its ambitious Snapdragon Satellite plans. Apple introduced satellite SOS support last year with the iPhone 14 series, with the intention of helping people when they are out of cellular or broadband coverage range.
The feature allows you to text emergency responders, share locations, and request roadside assistance. But not long after, hope emerged for Android phones. Earlier this year, Qualcomm announced Snapdragon Satellite, with the goal of aping Apple’s initiative for Android phones.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
