Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Share Wi-Fi Password on iPhone How to Restart iPhone Screen Record on iPhone Back Up an iPhone Clear Cache on iPhone Share Location on iPhone Home Mobile Products Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? The best iPhone accessories in 2023: 13 great ones to buy You need these awesome accessories for your new phone By Bryan M. Wolfe Close You just got your hands on the latest and greatest iPhone, huh? Congrats! Now, before you start taking selfies and browsing the web, there's one crucial step you need to take to protect your investment: buying a case, such as an Phone 15 case or iPhone 15 Pro case.
 While you're at it, why not check out all the awesome accessories available for your phone? There’s something for everyone, from fancy cables to high-tech earbuds to gaming controllers.
Whether you just upgraded to a brand-spanking new iPhone 15 or something else, here are some of the best iPhone accessories you can buy in 2023.
Save on everything from laptops and tablets, to coffee makers and air purifiers, and a whole host of Apple tech like iPad, Apple Watch and even the latest M3 MacBooks, as well as smart home essentials like the Amazon Echo and smart bulbs.
More More More More Anker Anker MagSafe Charger Stand Great all-in-one stand Beautiful design Simultaneous charging Works with StandBy in horizontal position Pricey If you're looking for a convenient way to charge your iPhone, AirPods, and Apple Watch all at once, there are a variety of stands available. However, not all stands are created equal.
The Anker MagSafe Stand stands out from the competition by including a 15-watt MagSafe charger for the iPhone and separate charging areas for your other devices. Its greatest ability, though, is its ability to charge all three gadgets simultaneously — a rarity among similar products. Plus, you can choose to position your iPhone horizontally or vertically, with the former enabling StandBy mode on compatible always-on iPhones.
More ShiftCam ShiftCam ProGrip Starter Kit The ultimate ergonomic, camera-like battery grip for iPhone DSLR-style grip for iPhone Doubles as a wireless powerbank Bluetooth shutter Shoot in portrait and landscape Use as a tabletop dock Accessories optional The Apple iPhone 15 features an impressive camera that inspires you to shoot all day. But there’s one problem: good camera or not, it doesn’t feel like shooting with a DSLR-type camera. ShiftCam’s ProGrip changes that instantly by giving you an ergonomic battery grip that’s designed to look and function like a DSLR camera, converting your iPhone into something truly photo-tastic. It’s both a hand grip and a wireless powerbank, with a Bluetooth-enabled shutter, a free-standing charging dock, and a host of accessories to upgrade your entire experience. The ProGrip Starter Kit comes with the ProGrip, a vegan leather hand strap, a travel pouch, the necessary USB-C cable, and a standard cold shoe mount and adapter.
Apple 240W USB-C Charge Cable The cable iPhone 15 Pro users need Excellent length Genuine Apple quality Somewhat pricey If you are a new owner of the iPhone 15 , you should consider getting your hands on the latest Apple cable, which boasts a length of 2 meters and a woven design, and is equipped with USB-C connectors at both ends. With its 240W charging capability and USB 2 data transfer speeds, it is a valuable accessory for your device. Apple also offers a shorter 1-meter version for those who prefer a more compact cable.
Amazon Amazon Basics 30W One-Port GaN USB-C Charger Great budget USB-C wall charger Excellent price Compact size Only one port Sometimes you just need an extra charger, but you don't want to break the bank. Lucky for you, this Amazon charger fits the bill perfectly! It can charge your devices superfast with its 30W power and USB power delivery (3.0) technology. It works with both Apple and Samsung devices too! Plus, it uses fancy GaN technology, which means it's more efficient and won't make your room feel like a sauna.
Zeke Jones / Digital Trends AirPods Pro 2 The earbuds you know you want Excellent noise canceling Best conversation mode we've tested Solid audio quality Capable of wireless lossless audio Yes, USB-C Best features only for Apple products Still no biofeedback So, you just dropped some serious cash on that fancy new iPhone, right? Obviously, you'll want a sweet pair of earbuds to go with it. Enter the well-received Apple AirPods Pro 2.
 These babies are top of the line. They come equipped with a killer H2 headphone chip and a sleek MagSafe Charging Case that uses USB-C and even houses a U1 chip.
These earbuds boast state-of-the-art audio technology and sensors, meaning you can groove to your tunes or listen to your favorite podcast for a full six hours on one charge. And with the charging case, you'll get an incredible 30 hours of uninterrupted listening. Setting up the AirPods Pro 2 is easy — just open up the case and your iPhone will do the rest.
More Backbone Backbone One Mobile Gaming Controller Great for mobile gaming Comfortable Works with iOS, Android, and PlayStation Untested with USB-C iPhones Backbone has risen to the top of the mobile gaming industry thanks to its fancy controllers. If you happen to own an iPhone 15 series device, this is the must-have add-on for you. However, for those with older iPhone models, there is a version that works with iPhones with a Lightning connector. This controller has tactical buttons, clickable thumbsticks, and analog triggers that make for an awesome gaming experience. Plus, it comes in black or white — your choice! More SHEZI SHEZI 4-in-1 USB C Cable Lightning Cable All-in-one cable solution Anti-tangle Available in various lengths Supports Lightning and USB-C Great price Small number of 1-star reviews As iPhones switch from Lightning to USB-C, it might mean having two different types of charging cables at home. But, fret not! There's a single cable that can fix this.
This multifunctional cable has four ports: USB-A-to-C, USB-A-to-Lightning, USB-C-to-Lightning, and USB-to-USB-C — all in one cable. It delivers 60W of power, making it perfect for any room in your house, and it also supports CarPlay.
Simon Cohen / Digital Trends Jabra Elite 4 Inexpensive tunes Comfy and secure Water and dust resistant Very good sound quality Effective noise canceling Excellent transparency mode Bluetooth Multipoint No wireless charging No AAC Bluetooth codec No wear sensors Middling battery life While the Jabra Elite 4 are not without theirs flaws, they still present an affordable and practical option for iPhone users seeking quality earbuds that cater to both work and leisure. Besides its comfortable design and decent sound quality, the earbuds also come equipped with effective noise-cancellation features.
It should be noted, however, that battery life can vary significantly, particularly when using ANC. Those looking for an upgrade might want to consider the Jabra Elite 7 , which are among the best wireless earbuds available this year.
Otterbox OtterBox Wireless Charger Vent Mount 2.0 for MagSafe Great for your car MagSafe compatible Includes long USB-C to USB-C cable Fairly priced Only 0.13 lbs MagSafe ring glows in the dark, which could be a con for some With powerful magnetic alignment and attachment, this wireless car charger is compatible with MagSafe and Qi wireless charging. It comes with a 6.6-foot USB-C-to-USB-C cable for convenient charging. It offers a fast-charging capability rated at an impressive 20W. When using the wireless charging option, this charger provides optimal 7.5W charging at an output of 15W.
Spigen Spigen OneTap Pro Simple iPhone stand Easy setup Modern design Budget priced No Apple Watch, AirPods charging If you're searching for a straightforward solution, the Spigen OneTap Pro is a charging stand that won't disappoint. With its sturdy aluminum construction, this device is built to last. The stand's 360-degree rotation offers unparalleled flexibility, while the bottom pads are designed to prevent accidental tipping.
Anker Anker USB-C Cable Two USB-C charging cables for less Durable 2-for-1 6-foot cable Excellent price Do you need two? When you choose to make this purchase, you will not only receive one, but two USB-C-to-USB-C cables that measure a generous 6 feet in length. These cables are specially designed to enable high-speed charging of up to 100W when paired with a compatible charging puck.
To guarantee the longevity of these cables, the exterior is crafted from durable nylon material, which can withstand even the toughest of daily wear and tear, promising many years of reliable service. These cables are available at various lengths.
More Simon Cohen / Digital Trends Master & Dynamic MW08 Luxury-looking earbuds Gorgeous design and materials Very comfortable Excellent sound quality Really long battery life Effective transparency mode Good call quality Easy and intuitive controls Expensive Limited customization No wireless charging No EQ adjustments Weak ANC performance Master & Dynamic, a New York-based audio brand, fuses quality components with sleek design in its range of audio products. Among them, the MW08 wireless earbuds (which come in an array of vibrant hues) stand out as a stylish accessory.
With exceptional sound output and a lengthy battery life, these earbuds make for a comfortable fit and boast highly responsive onboard controls, as well as clear call quality. However, one drawback is the lack of wireless charging, and the price point of the earbuds may be higher than others on the market.
Anker Anker Prime 67W USB C Charger For all your charging needs Three essential ports Up to 67W Supports multiple devices Cheaper options are available This charger is like the Swiss Army Knife of charging devices with its two USB-C ports and one USB-A port. It's perfect for all your charging needs, whether you're at home, work, or out and about. And get this — you can even charge one device at up to a whopping 67W! But wait, there's more. Even when you're using two ports simultaneously, you still get up to 65W. That's what we call versatility. Plus, its compact design sets it apart from all the other chargers out there. It's a true gem when it comes to charging devices like iPhones and MacBooks.
Editors' Recommendations Best iPad Black Friday deals: iPad Mini, iPad Air, iPad Pro, and more The best iPhone 15 case Black Friday deals you can buy now The best smartwatches in 2023: our 12 favorites This sealed-in-box iPhone can be yours for under $150 today Best iPad deals: Save on 10.2-inch iPad, iPad Pro, and more Apple Apple Events and Announcements Apple iPhone Best Products Mobile "Fitness" can mean a lot of things. For some people, it's being able to run far, or run fast. For others, it's being able to lift heavy things and lower them back down again. Others may simply want to keep trim, or eat healthily. It may even mean getting a great night's sleep, or making sure your mental wellness is at its best. Whatever fitness means for you, we have a list of apps that cover all the possible bases. These apps excel in a number of different areas, but what they all generally have in common is that they use your iPhone's powerful tech to monitor and analyze your performance. As a result, they can help you progress along your fitness journey.
These apps are great at keeping you fit, but they're always best when paired with other tech, so make sure to check out our lists of the best fitness trackers and the best running headphones. Here are the best fitness apps for the iPhone in 2023.
Apple Fitness Mobile As much as we love having the best smartphones in our pockets, there are times when those small screens don't cut it, and we just need a larger display. That's when you turn to a tablet, which is great for being productive on the go and can be a great way to unwind and relax too. While the tablet market really took off after the iPad, it has grown to be quite diverse with a huge variety of products — from great budget options to powerhouses for professionals.
We've tried out a lot of tablets here at Digital Trends, from the workhorses for pros to tablets that are made for kids and even seniors, there's a tablet for every person and every budget. For most people, though, we think Apple's iPad Air is the best overall tablet — especially if you're already invested in the Apple ecosystem. But if you're not an Apple user, that's fine too; there are plenty of other great options that you'll find in this roundup.
Mobile The early Best Buy Black Friday sale has slashed the prices of various Apple devices, but you'll need to be a My Best Buy Plus or My Best Buy Total member to shop some of the best offers -- including some of these killer discounts we've found below, including $100 off the AirPods Max, and hefty savings on the iPad and 15-inch MacBook Air. You'll need to act fast too, as there's no guarantee these discounts will last until the early access sale ends on Sunday, or that we'll see them return on Black Friday itself next month.
Apple Watch SE (40mm, 2nd Gen) -- $219, was $249 The second-generation Apple Watch SE is the updated version of the brand's entry-level smartwatch, and it's a fairly capable wearable device despite its affordable price. It features a comprehensive suite of health monitoring features, including a heart rate sensor and basic sleep tracking, and it's swimproof up to 50 meters. You can receive notifications on your wrist, and even answer text messages without having to take your phone out of your pocket. The Apple Watch SE 2 is down to $219 from $249, for $30 in savings.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
