Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Share Wi-Fi Password on iPhone How to Restart iPhone Screen Record on iPhone Back Up an iPhone Clear Cache on iPhone Share Location on iPhone Home Mobile News Does the iPhone 15 break easily? What you really need to know By Bryan M. Wolfe Close Bryan M. Wolfe / Digital Trends Just days after the iPhone 15 series arrived in stores and people’s homes, the list of controversies about the new phones has continued to grow. First, there were concerns the iPhone 15 had an overheating problem.
 Now, an alarming online test suggests that at least one of the four new iPhone 15 models can break easily.
How did this iPhone 15 controversy get started? Does the iPhone 15 have a durability problem? Why you shouldn’t be worried about this Has Apple released inferior iPhones? Should you be worried? There are a few things to keep in mind.
How did this iPhone 15 controversy get started? JerryRigEverything Zack Nelson of the popular YouTube channel JerryRigEverthing likes to put new smartphones through a battery of durability tests. As noted, in his video about the iPhone 15 Pro Max, Nelson calls the device’s brushed titanium and the etched back glass “super cool.” How I use my Apple Watch and iPhone to manage my diabetes This iPhone 15 and iPhone 14 camera test is closer than I expected 4 AI features I want in my next iPhone Unfortunately, it went downhill from there.
Let’s start with the good news – Nelson tried to scratch the phone’s selfie camera using a box cutter. Thanks to the Ceramic Shield of the phone, no problems were detected, and the iPhone held up well.
After that, he used the box cutter to drag down the phone’s side. In this test, he removed the PVD coating, revealing the phone’s titanium frame. Nelson then put the iPhone 15 Pro Max through his always thrilling fire test using a lighter. Once again, the phone held up just fine.
Here’s where things go terribly for Apple’s most expensive iPhone. Nelson used his fingers and thumbs to bend the device for the next test. The result? The back glass shattered.
As Nelson notes: “Yeah, I’m going to be honest, I did not see that one coming … [as] iPhones especially do not break, like ever.” It should be noted the same test was performed on the smaller iPhone 15 Pro and the aluminum iPhone 15 and iPhone 15 Plus. Those three phones didn’t break with Nelson’s fingers and thumbs test.
Naturally, this led to meltdowns across the internet, including on Reddit , Twitter , Apple discussion boards , and elsewhere.
Does the iPhone 15 have a durability problem? Bryan M. Wolfe / Digital Trends If you search online for “iPhone 15 Pro Max durability test,” several articles discuss the phone’s alleged fragility. However, all of these articles refer to JerryRigEverthing’s test. I couldn’t find videos where another fingers and thumbs test is performed on the handset. Given that the iPhone 15 Pro Max starts at $1,199, I’m not surprised.
That being said, Nelson’s findings are still valid, and it’s not a good look for Apple, notably when the other three iPhone 15 models passed the test.
It’s worth noting that I’m a new owner of an iPhone 15 Pro Max. I also do not intend to attempt to break it with my hands and thumbs, by throwing it on the floor, or in any other way. Sorry, folks.
Why you shouldn’t be worried about this Bryan M. Wolfe / Digital Trends Nelson’s JerryRigEverything YouTube channel is known for testing the durability of various devices, and his recent iPhone 15 Pro Max test has raised concerns among those who own or plan to buy the expensive handset. However, there are two simple reasons why you shouldn’t worry about these results.
Firstly, in everyday life, no one in their right mind would intentionally try to damage their iPhone to test its durability as Nelson did. Secondly, using a case on your handset ( sorry, Andy ) is recommended to protect against accidental drops, scratches, and other potential damages, including those tested by Nelson.
In summary, while the test results may be disturbing, they aren’t a cause for concern for regular users who take routine care of their devices and use a protective case.
With all this being said, I have an easy prediction. The iPhone 16 Pro Max (or whatever Apple calls its next most giant iPhone) will pass Nelson’s tests next year with flying colors, as Apple almost certainly doesn’t want to be embarrassed like this again.
Editors' Recommendations It looks like the iPhone 16 will get a big design upgrade The iPhone is getting out of control I love Apple, but it’s totally wrong about iMessage and RCS I figured out how to protect my iPhone without an ugly case The iPhone’s futuristic satellite tech isn’t coming to Android any time soon Apple Apple Events and Announcements Apple iPhone Tech News Mobile iPhone 14 Plus (left) and iPhone 15 Plus Andy Boxall / Digital Trends If you’re reading this article, chances are high that you keep pretty up-to-date with modern technology, including smartphones like Apple’s iPhone. You may upgrade your phone every few years, or — if you’re like me — you might even upgrade every year.
Mobile The iPhone 15 Pro and iPhone 15 Pro Max have an all-new titanium body, which is the standout feature from a design perspective. However, another hardware-related feature that's even more noteworthy for these models — and future iPhones over time — is the new Action button.
The Action button replaces the ring/silent switch on the left side of the iPhone 15 Pro and iPhone 15 Pro Max. You can assign one shortcut to the button through the Settings app, such as activating and using the Camera app or turning on the phone's flashlight. To assign the button, go into the Settings app on your supported iPhone. From there, choose the Action Button, then toggle to your selection. It's that simple.
Mobile As an avid Apple fan, I was surprised when I received the Samsung Galaxy Tab S9 FE for review and found myself loving it. Could Samsung continue to impress me? That's what I wanted to find out when I received the Galaxy S23 FE. This "fan edition" smartphone, which we just ran through its paces in our Samsung Galaxy S23 FE review, offers many of the same features as the other Galaxy S23 models, but at a slightly lower price.
My handset of choice has always been the latest iPhone Pro. This usually means purchasing the Pro Max model, which I did again this year with the iPhone 15 Pro Max. I didn't expect the Galaxy S23 FE to match up to my new iPhone, as the Apple device is double the price and offers much better specs.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
