Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Apple Watch Series 8 vs Apple Watch Series 7 Best Apple Watch Faces Apple Watch SE 2 vs Apple Watch SE Apple Watch Series 8 vs Apple Watch Ultra Track Sleep with an Apple Watch Home Mobile Features I tried Double Tap on my Apple Watch. Here’s why I love it By Bryan M. Wolfe Close Bryan M. Wolfe / Digital Trends I have heard some people criticize this year’s Apple Watches, saying they are not much different from the previous models. While it is true that the Apple Watch Series 9 and Apple Watch Ultra 2 are strikingly similar to their predecessors, there are some tweaks about the new wearables that should not be overlooked.
What does Double Tap do, and how does it work? Why Double Tap is so great It’s coming to your Apple Watch soon As anyone who already owns a new Apple Watch will tell you, new features this time around include brighter displays, a new processor, more storage, and more. There’s also the Double Tap feature, which Apple is expected to unleash in just a few weeks.
Though Double Tap was announced during the iPhone 15 event in September, it is only now being introduced on the Apple Watch Series 9 and Apple Watch Ultra 2 through the watchOS 10.
1 public beta. The feature is expected to be available for public use in the coming weeks and arrive through an upcoming watchOS release.
How I use my Apple Watch and iPhone to manage my diabetes I love Apple, but it’s totally wrong about iMessage and RCS Subscriptions are quickly ruining fitness trackers I have been using the Double Tap feature on my new Apple Watch Ultra 2, which has the watchOS beta installed, and I’ve found it to be a fascinating feature. I would categorize it as one of those fantastic Apple features you didn’t even know you needed until it was introduced.
What does Double Tap do, and how does it work? Bryan M. Wolfe / Digital Trends The purpose of the Double Tap gesture is to simplify performing tasks on your Apple Watch when your other hand is occupied. It can be beneficial when walking your dog, carrying groceries, holding your favorite drink, or maybe even mountain climbing. In these cases, you tap your thumb and index finger together twice on your Apple Watch hand to initiate a command on your watch.
Double Tap may seem simple, just bringing two fingers together, but a lot is happening behind the scenes. The latest Apple Watches are equipped with the S9 chip and the new Neural Engine, which work together to process data from the watch’s accelerometer, gyroscope, and optical heart sensor. A machine algorithm then analyzes this data to detect tiny movements and changes in blood flow associated with double tapping your thumb and index finger.
Bryan M. Wolfe / Digital Trends Double Tap is an action that triggers the primary button in the active app. For instance, Double Tap can stop and play songs if you’re listening to Apple Music. It can also be used to answer or end a call from your wrist. Other examples of Double Tap usage include starting and stopping a timer, hitting the snooze button on your alarm, and more.
If you don’t have an app already opened on your Apple Watch, you can use Double Tap to launch the all-new Smart Stack feature in watchOS 10, which can also be initiated by turning the Digital Crown. Smart Stack displays a series of widgets that provide you with relevant and timely information such as weather reports, fitness ring status, and more. Double Tap not only opens Smart Stack but also allows you to scroll through the presented widgets with subsequent double taps.
Why Double Tap is so great Andy Boxall / Digital Trends Initially, I was pretty skeptical of Double Tap, and I must say that I considered it to be nothing more than a gimmick added to an otherwise unimpressive Apple Watch release cycle. But after using it for a few days, I have come to realize that it has the potential to be a game-changer for the Apple Watch. It’s incredible how a minor feature like this can open up many new possibilities, both now and almost certainly in the future.
Although Double Tap is still in the testing phase, I don’t expect much to change with the tool before it is officially released. So far, it has been performing as promised, and it already shows great potential. If you own an Apple Watch Series 9 or an Apple Watch Ultra 2, you can expect to get your hands on this innovative tool sooner rather than later.
As I look into the future, I can see a lot of potential for Double Tap to expand its features and even allow for more fingers to be used. For instance, while the Action button on the Apple Watch Ultra and iPhone 15 Pro is impressive, it only allows one function to be assigned. However, Double Tap could turn every finger into an Action button.
Palette watch face Andy Boxall / Digital Trends For example, you could double-tap your pinky and thumb to launch a shortcut or touch your middle finger and thumb to throw something else. Additionally, with this technology, users of the Apple Watch Series 9 and beyond could use their fingers as action buttons without needing physical control.
And what about single or triple taps? Couldn’t Apple make it possible to initiate additional tasks with the index finger and thumb simply by how many times the fingers are tapped together? I might be jumping the gun here, but Apple is known for introducing new features that improve over time. Let’s be honest: how many of us expected to control our Apple Watch with simple finger gestures in August? I would assume very few if any at all.
It’s coming to your Apple Watch soon Bryan M. Wolfe / Digital Trends Double Tap is a feature exclusive to the 2023 Apple Watches and their S9 processor. This means only the Apple Watch Series 9 and Apple Watch Ultra 2 owners can get in on the fun.
I’ve been able to test Double Tap on the watchOS 10.1 public beta, and from what I’ve seen, it seems to be working well. With that in mind, I anticipate that we can expect the new update to arrive in the third or fourth week of October, so before Halloween, October 31. That’s just in time for all those spooky Halloween parties and costume contests! It will be super interesting to see what Apple has in store for Double Tap and whether the early adopters will embrace it. I have a feeling that once Double Tap drops, it will be all over the place in every ad for the Apple Watch Series 9 leading up to Christmas. It’s a pretty cool new feature, and I’m excited to see where it goes.
Editors' Recommendations Double Tap is the coolest Apple Watch feature I’ve used in ages Apple Watch is bringing back a popular feature soon Here’s our first look at OnePlus’ next Apple Watch killer I wore a G-Shock watch that rivals the Apple Watch Ultra 2 I turned my iPhone into one of 2023’s coolest Android phones Apple Apple Watch Features Wearables Mobile Long-standing rumors point to the 2024 Apple Watch being truly special in a few ways. A new design is one of the hot rumors, but it seems Apple wants to make another health-centric leap by allowing the smartwatch to read blood pressure and also look for signs of sleep apnea.
According to Bloomberg, the next Apple Watch will come equipped with a new sensor that will measure variations in blood pressure. A successor slated for arrival in 2025 could measure the exact systolic and diastolic blood pressure values.
Mobile Apple Watch Ultra 2 (left) and the Apple Watch Ultra Joe Maring / Digital Trends When Apple released the Apple Watch Ultra 2 in September, it was quickly evident that it was nearly identical to its predecessor. This suggested Apple had significant changes planned for the wearable device in 2024 with the Apple Watch Ultra 3. However, this assumption may be incorrect. There might not be a new version of the Apple Watch Ultra in 2024 after all.
Mobile Nike Globe watch face Andy Boxall / Digital Trends There's something quite wonderful about smartwatches. As an Android aficionado, I have no shortage of great smartwatches to choose from. Watches from big names like Samsung and Google are in on the act with the Samsung Galaxy Watch 6 and Google Pixel Watch 2. I can also dip into fitness brands like Fitbit, Garmin, and even Polar. Heck, there are even options from traditional watch brands like Fossil and Casio.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
