Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Phones Best Tablets Tesla Phone Download Android 14 Best Android Phones Home Mobile News Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Your Oura Ring is about to get 3 powerful new health features By Bryan M. Wolfe Close Oura The Oura Ring is getting an upgrade with three new features that will improve the device’s performance for its users. The three new features are Daytime Stress, Reflections, and Resilience. Additionally, a new finish will be available for purchase.
Daytime Stress Reflections Stress Resilience A new titanium color According to Oura, the new features will help users understand how and when they experience stress and recovery in their daily lives. It will also enable them to balance daily behaviors that build resilience and avoid the negative impacts of chronic stress. The new features (and the new color) are being announced at the 2023 HLTH Conference in Las Vegas, featuring Oura CEO Tom Hale.
Daytime Stress Andy Boxall / Digital Trends Beginning today, October 10, the new Daytime Stress feature will be rolled out to Oura users. It has been designed to identify stress triggers by continuously measuring tiny changes in biometrics such as heart rate, HRV, and temperature.
Your next Android phone could have one of the iPhone’s best features Your Oura Ring can now help you have better therapy appointments Your Samsung smartwatch will soon get a lifesaving health feature The information collected every 15 minutes will help users see which experiences add stress to their day and which ones help them recover.
Reflections Andy Boxall / Digital Trends For iPhone users in beta, the new Reflections feature is already available. It provides an AI-powered journal function in the Oura app that lets users quickly record short journal entries and track mood and mental state.
The text is transcribed by speech recognition, while AI-powered auto-tagging automatically creates a context for the user’s Oura data.
Stress Resilience An Oura Ring next to an iPhone and Apple Watch Andy Boxall / Digital Trends Finally, the Oura team aims to roll out the new Stress Resilience feature this winter. The feature assesses users’ ability to withstand physiological stress by tracking daytime stress load, daytime recovery, and recovery during sleep.
With the new Daytime Stress feature, Stress Resilience will provide users with insights, education, and recommendations to manage stress and improve overall health.
A new titanium color Oura Meanwhile, the latest addition to Oura’s Horizon lineup is its new brushed titanium color. It features a matte surface that looks sophisticated and understated. The finish is designed with medical-grade durability in mind, ensuring that it is sturdy enough for everyday wear. The new brushed titanium finish joins Oura’s existing silver, black, stealth, gold, and rose gold lineup.
Oura Holly Shelton, Oura’s Chief Product Officer, explains the new features: “Being human is inherently stressful. We all experience stress and it’s often depicted as something we need to eliminate and avoid at all costs. When understood and managed well, stress can be your ally in boosting productivity, flexing your creativity, and building resilience. That’s the power we’re helping our members harness with our new stress offerings.” Oura has recently expanded its range of wellness tools to benefit users. One significant development was the partnership with Talkspace , an online behavioral health service provider, announced in August. This collaboration allows Oura users to share their personalized sleep data with a licensed therapist. By analyzing the individual’s sleep patterns and daily activity level between appointments, the therapist can create customized treatment plans and set better objectives.
Oura Another recent addition is Oura Circles , which enables users to share three main data points (Readiness, Sleep, and Activity) with professionals and family members. Additionally, in late 2020, the company partnered with Therabody, the makers of the Theragun percussive recovery muscle massager.
The Oura Ring comes from Finnish-based Oura Health Oy. It’s a well-received smart ring that tracks a user’s physical activity and sleep patterns. It’s available for purchase from the Oura website starting at $299.
 A monthly membership plan is $6.
Editors' Recommendations I did something ridiculous to my Oura Ring The Oura Ring may get a fierce new competitor in January 2024 Forget the Oura Ring — Samsung might be making a new smart ring Oura Ring’s newest feature lets you spy on your friends I should stop wearing the Oura Ring, but I can’t Tech News Wearables Mobile As part of its most recent update, the Oura Ring will let you know whether you’re going against type by confirming if you really are an early bird or a night owl. It’ll do this using a metric called Chronotype, which examines our natural sleep patterns and energy levels, and then correctly assigns you the right designation. Oura says that understanding this, and working with it to improve your sleep patterns, can have a “profound impact on our lives.” Oura Ring Horizon Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Mobile Do you want a health, wellness, and fitness tracker that doesn’t have a screen? Then you would be wise to consider the Oura Ring and the Whoop 4.0, as neither will bother you with notifications or show you the time. But both have extensive health-tracking capabilities and in-depth apps, all for a similar price.
I’ve worn the Oura Ring for more than a year now, and have used the Whoop 4.0 wristband for about six weeks, so I’ve got a good idea of how the two compare. Which should you spend your money on? Let’s find out.
Wearing the Oura Ring and Whoop 4.0 Mobile Apple just released a new iOS update for your iPhone: iOS 16.3.1. There are also updates for iPadOS 16.3.1 and macOS 13.2.1. All of these are relatively minor updates, but they do patch up an actively exploited code execution vulnerability that was found in WebKit/Safari. A second vulnerability was also patched up, though this second one was not known to be actively exploited.
But that’s not all that iOS 16.3.1 brings. This update also fixes an issue with iCloud settings, where it became unresponsive. Another bug fix corrects an issue with using Siri with the Find My feature, where the request would end up failing. If you have a HomePod, there is a HomePod 16.3.2 OS update that will also resolve some Siri issues, where smart home requests would end up failing.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
