Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Phones Best Tablets Tesla Phone Download Android 14 Best Android Phones Home Mobile News Polar’s newest smartwatch could be a Fitbit and Garmin killer By Bryan M. Wolfe Close Digital Trends The latest sports watch to hit the market, the Polar Vantage V3, is designed to cater to the needs of both athletes and everyday users. This new offering from Polar replaces the previous model, the Polar Vantage V2, released in 2020.
The market for fitness trackers and watches is a competitive one in 2023, but based on everything Polar has shared about the Vantage V3, we could be looking at a solid alternative to the likes of Fitbit and Garmin. Here’s what it’s packing.
One of the most promoted features of the Polar Vantage V3 is its advanced biosensing technology, called Polar Elixir. It provides many of the same features as other smartwatches, such as the Apple Watch Series 9.
 The watch has a fourth-generation optical heart rate (OHR) monitor that offers greater accuracy and a wrist ECG that measures electrical signals from your heart.
Previous Next 1 2 Polar Polar Other notable biosensing features include a SpO2 monitor that provides blood oxygen level measurements using pulse oximetry technology. There’s also a nightly skin temperature tool that measures your body’s temperature at night. These measurements allow the watch to provide advanced insights into sleep and well-being.
The Fitbit Charge 6 is a fitness tracker and smartwatch hybrid Garmin’s newest smartwatch could replace your Apple Watch You can finally take ECGs and track AFib on a Garmin smartwatch The Polar Vantage V3 also provides training, recovery, and sleep tracking. These features include signature Polar tools like Recovery Pro, Nightly Recharge, Sleep Plus Stages, and . Together, these features are designed to monitor your health and well-being over time and make suggestions to help you improve. The Vantage V3 has over 150 built-in sports profiles, making it a versatile sports watch suitable for various activities.
To track your progress, Polar Flow’s free app and website help you analyze various aspects of your physical activity, fitness, and health, set goals, and monitor daily progress. According to Polar CEO Sander Werring: “Athletic progress is defined by goals; setting them, working towards them, surpassing them, and setting the next ones. This requires a vast amount of personal insight only achievable through measuring and analyzing highly accurate data about your performance. This knowledge, paired with personalized guidance, is the ultimate key to progress.” Polar Many of these same features are found on other sports watches that were recently announced, including the Fitbit Charge 6 and the Garmin Forerunner 265.
The watch is equipped with advanced technology that enables you to get accurate location information even in challenging conditions, such as when you’re near tall buildings or in bad weather. With the help of the Vantage V3’s tools, you can be confident that you’ll always know your location, regardless of the conditions.
The Polar Vantage V3 also comes with turn-by-turn guidance from Komoot, which provides detailed directions to your destination, even in unfamiliar areas. The Vantage V3 can sync with its route planner to offer customized turn-by-turn guidance, making navigating your way around new places easy.
In addition to turn-by-turn guidance, the Polar Vantage V3 lets you download topographic maps, which are particularly useful for outdoor enthusiasts who enjoy hiking, camping, or mountain biking. With its topographic maps, you can always stay on track and confidently explore new areas.
Polar The Vantage V3 is also equipped with advanced internal components that cater to the needs of every user. The watch boasts a long battery life, providing up to 53 hours of training time with each charge or up to eight days of display time. The power-saving mode can extend training time to 140 hours between charges. Other features include 32GB of storage (just like its predecessor), which you can use to store maps and other items, and USB-C charging.
Polar’s Vantage V3 smartwatch showcases a redesign, which, according to the company, combines sophistication with practicality. Its 1.39-inch AMOLED touchscreen extends to the edges, providing a wider display area than its predecessor while boasting 462 pixels per inch for an incredibly sharp and vivid display. With an aluminum bezel and sturdy buttons, the Vantage V3 is built to last. Notably, the watch now supports standard 22mm wristbands, eliminating the need for adapters and allowing you to customize your style to your heart’s content.
Starting today, October 11, you can preorder the Polar Vantage V3 at some select retailers. The watch comes in three colors: Night Black, Sky Blue, and Sunrise Apricot, and is priced at $599. You can also purchase a combined bundle of a Polar Vantage V3 and a Polar H10 heart rate monitor for $649. Shipping of orders will begin on October 25.
Editors' Recommendations The future of Fitbit doesn’t look good Xiaomi’s newest wearables may make you want to ditch your Apple Watch Garmin’s newest smartwatches steal one of the Apple Watch’s best features Montblanc’s newest smartwatch has Wear OS 3 and costs nearly $1,300 Polar’s new Pacer smartwatches are for beginners and serious runners Health & Fitness Tech News Wearables Mobile Fitness encompasses all ages, which is why it shouldn't come as a shock that companies are coming out with wearables for younger age groups. Today, Fitbit announced the Ace 3, its newest activity tracker for kids. Like its predecessors, the Ace 3 is designed to help kids get active and stay fit. The tracker's renewed emphasis on exercise is critical, especially now, when children are learning remotely more than ever. For many kids, active playground time at school has now been replaced by sedentary game time at home -- a trend most parents would like to reverse.
Parents who struggle to find new activities for their kids will appreciate the Fitbit Ace 3's gamelike approach to exercise. Kids are encouraged to reach 60 daily active minutes or 250 steps per hour. Animated watch faces change as children move closer to their activity goals and they are rewarded when a goal is reached. Kids can check their stats right on the tracker, while parents can monitor their children's progress using Fitbit's family controls.
Wearables Polar has a new fitness-orientated smartwatch, and it’s not for the faint of heart. The Polar Vantage V2 is designed for hardcore fitness fanatics and athletes, with a massive range of in-depth features that will appeal to people whose lives revolve around exercise, but will baffle someone who reluctantly goes to the gym a couple of times a week.
The follow-up to the Polar Vantage V, the Vantage V2’s aluminum case is 21% lighter than the Vantage V at 52 grams, water-resistant to 100 meters, and comes in three colors: Black, green, or a cool grey-lime. The screen measures 1.2 inches and has a 240 x 240-pixel resolution, while the battery will last for 40 hours normally, or 100 hours with an extended battery mode active.
Wearables The wearables market is racing towards records this year: IDC predicts more than 152 million wrist-worn wearables will be sold by the end of 2019 and healthy growth is expected to continue. The top five companies, with almost 66% of the worldwide market between them, are Xiaomi, Apple, Huawei, Fitbit, and Samsung, in that order. If Google has aspirations in wearables, Fitbit is a way in, which could explain the news that Google's parent company Alphabet Inc. may have made an offer to acquire Fitbit.
This revelation is based on a report from Reuters, which cites an anonymous source, and it is far from a done deal. We don't know what the offer looks like, if there was one, or whether Fitbit will accept it, but the company has been struggling of late. If we look back at IDC's report, it's smartwatches that are sprinting ahead of the pack, while simpler fitness bands, which make up the majority of Fitbit's revenue, seem to have run out of steam. Under pressure from a host of cheap fitness trackers, especially from Xiaomi, and struggling to transition to smartwatches where Apple is dominant, Fitbit has been stuck between a rock and a hard place. It has dropped prices -- and profits have gone down with them. Though we liked the Fitbit Versa Lite, the stripped-down smartwatch was not a hit and was blamed for a decline in revenue that sent Fitbit's shares tumbling in the summer.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
