Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Phones Best Tablets Tesla Phone Download Android 14 Best Android Phones Home Mobile News Samsung just announced another new phone (and two Android tablets) By Bryan M. Wolfe Close Samsung Just months after releasing the Galaxy Z Fold 5 and Galaxy Z Flip 5 , Samsung has introduced another new phone and two tablets. The latest additions to the FE family are the Samsung Galaxy S23 FE, Galaxy Tab S9 FE, and the Galaxy Tab S9 FE Plus.
Samsung Galaxy S23 FE Samsung Galaxy Tab S9 FE and Galaxy Tab S9 FE Plus The FE series is designed to offer an affordable entry point to the Samsung Galaxy universe while still providing many of the same features found in more expensive models. In announcing the new products, TM Roh, president and head of Mobile Experience Business at Samsung Electronics, said: “Our new FE devices are packed with crowd-pleasing premium capabilities that, on their own or as part of a connected ecosystem, let Galaxy users maximize their creativity and productivity.” Samsung Galaxy S23 FE Samsung First up is the Galaxy S23 FE smartphone , which features a 6.4-inch Dynamic AMOLED 2X display. The phone has a floating camera and a finish protected with water and dust resistance rated at IP68. This protection ensures that the phone can withstand harsh environments and accidental spills. The Galaxy S23 FE is also made with recycled materials and packaging, making it durable and sustainable. And, yes, it looks just like the Galaxy S23 and Galaxy S23 Plus from earlier this year.
Samsung Galaxy S24: news, rumored price, release date, and more Samsung just killed one of its most important Android phones Samsung just did something strange to its newest Android phone The S23 FE’s camera system includes a 50MP high-resolution main camera, a 12MP ultrawide camera, and an 8MP telephoto lens with 3x optical zoom. On the front, there is a 10MP camera that should help you take great selfies and make crisp video calls. Samsung’s Nightography feature allows you to take clearer selfies and portraits, while VDIS provides digital image stabilization, making it easier to take steady shots on the go. The Pro Mode also gives you more control over the camera settings, including shutter speed, aperture, and ISO.
The Galaxy S23 FE is powered by a Qualcomm Snapdragon 8 Gen 1 processor, which should offer enough performance for most daily tasks. With Vision Booster technology, the phone can detect bright lighting conditions and adjust accordingly, providing an optimal viewing experience. It is worth noting that this is not the Snapdragon 8+ Gen 1, which succeeded the Snapdragon 8 Gen 1. The most recent addition to the Snapdragon 8 series is the Snapdragon 8 Gen 2, which was announced in November 2022. The Snapdragon 8 Gen 1 debuted in November 2021.
You’ll find a 4,500mAh battery on the S23 FE that charges up to 50% in just 30 minutes with a 25-watt adapter. This means you should be able to use the phone for hours without worrying about the battery life.
The Galaxy S23 FE has 128GB or 256GB of storage starting at $599. The phone comes in mint, cream, graphite, and purple colors and can be purchased from Samsung.com and other retailers. Indigo and tangerine options are available exclusively on the Samsung website.
The phone will be released on October 26 and available at T-Mobile, AT&T, US Cellular, Verizon, Samsung.com, Samsung Experience Stores, and other retail and carrier partners.
Samsung Galaxy Tab S9 FE and Galaxy Tab S9 FE Plus Samsung Samsung has also announced the launch of two new tablets — the Galaxy Tab S9 FE and the Galaxy Tab S9 FE Plus. These two tablets have a lot in common, but there are still some fundamental differences between them.
The Galaxy Tab S9 FE features a 10.9-inch WUXGA+ (2303 x 1440) LCD and is powered by the Samsung Exynos 1380 processor and an Arm Mali-G68 GPU. The tablet comes in two storage capacities, one with 128GB and 6GB of RAM and the other with 256GB and 8GB of RAM.
The Galaxy Tab S9 FE also boasts a 12MP front camera and an 8MP rear camera, an IP68 water- and dust-resistance rating, AKG-tuned dual speakers with Dolby Atmos support, and many other features. The tablet also includes the S Pen.
The Galaxy Tab S9 FE comes in four colors: gray, silver, lavender, and mint. You can choose between Wi-Fi only or Wi-Fi + 5G.
Samsung On the other hand, the Galaxy Tab S9 FE Plus is a 12.4-inch tablet with a 2560 x 1600 LCD screen. It’s also powered by the Samsung Exynos 1380 processor and an Arm Mali-G68 GPU. This model comes in two storage options — one with 128GB and 8GB of RAM and the other with 256GB and 12GB of RAM.
Like the smaller Galaxy Tab S9 FE, the Galaxy Tab S9 FE Plus offers a 12MP front camera and an 8MP rear camera.
The Galaxy Tab S9 FE Plus has IP68 water and dust protection, the S Pen, a 10,090mAh lithium-ion battery, and many other features. This model is only available with Wi-Fi in four colors: gray, silver, lavender, and mint.
The Galaxy Tab S9 FE and Tab S9 FE Plus will be available starting October 10 and can be purchased on Samsung.com, Samsung Experience Stores, and major retailers and carriers. They start at $450.
Editors' Recommendations When is my phone getting Android 14? Here’s everything we know Can an Android phone replace my iPhone? I found out You need to hear the crazy origin story behind this Samsung phone Fixing your broken Samsung phone is about to get easier The Samsung Galaxy S24 just leaked with a few big surprises Samsung Tech News Mobile Samsung recently released a slate of new products with great new features, including the new Galaxy Z Fold 5, Galaxy Z Flip 5, the Galaxy Tab S9 tablet lineup, and the Galaxy Watch 6 series. While these are the latest and greatest, Samsung has just announced that some new One UI features introduced with these devices are heading to older models through a software update.
The One UI 5.1.1 update will be coming to owners of the Galaxy Z Fold 4 and Galaxy Z Flip 4 devices this month. People who have the Z Fold 3, Z Flip 3, Z Fold 2, Z Flip 2, and original Z Flip will get the update sequentially.
Mobile “Android tablets are a lost cause.” I come across this recurring theme more often than I would like, but there’s some truth to it. As someone who pushes Android tablets as a daily workhorse, I’ve defended on numerous occasions how the ecosystem has matured over the past few years after Android 12L and foldable arrived on the scene.
But compared to the iPad, Android tablets keep falling short. With every brand trying to create its own unique software flavor for tablets that vary dramatically in terms of firepower, no two Android tablets seem to offer a uniform experience. iPads, on the other hand, do deliver experience uniformity irrespective of the screen size.
Mobile Software plays a crucial role in any device, but it becomes even more important when you have a limited amount of screen space to interact with the user interface. The Motorola Razr series has always been better than the Galaxy Z Flip lineup in terms of usability when folded. This year, Samsung’s Galaxy Z Flip 5 closes the gap between the two clamshell foldables by offering a big cover screen.
But sporting a big outer display doesn’t immediately make a flip phone foldable a whole lot more useful; case in point – the Oppo Find N2 Flip, where Oppo gave us six widgets (and added a couple more later) to play around with and called it a day. While Samsung brings 13 widgets to the table, the cover screen software is still not on par with the Motorola Razr Plus.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
