Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Audio / Video Features This one move could change everything for Vizio By Caleb Denison Close I need to be brutally honest here: Vizio has been struggling for a few years now. But there may yet be hope for the television manufacturer. In fact, it’s possible that Vizio could be staging a comeback. And that might be some of the best news yet for consumers.
Out with the old Homing in on the problem Picture quality Price and performance My first flat-panel TV was a 37-inch Vizio, and there has always been a soft spot in my heart for the brand, which long outpunched its weight class with quality sets that simply weren’t as expensive as you would have expected. So it’s been hard for me to watch Vizio dig itself into a hole for the past few years.
But that’s what happens when you double down on something that doesn’t work. In this case, I’m referring to Vizio’s smart TV operating system, SmartCast. It’s my guess that there may have been stubbornness within the upper ranks at Vizio that kept the company steadfastly dedicated to that system. Unfortunately, I think SmartCast has caused Vizio to suffer as a TV brand.
Remember, Vizio used to be the undisputed value king when it came to TVs.
 And while it’s managed to earn accolades recently for its soundbars , its TVs have backslid in popularity.
Sony Bravia X95L mini-LED vs. TCL QM8 QLED: The best LCD TV and the one you should buy You can finally watch TikTok videos on Vizio smart TVs. Here’s how to do it Vizio updates its SmartCast TV software with voice commands and better search But I sense that things are changing for the better. And while I’ll stop short of saying that I’m excited, I will say that I’m really encouraged. Relieved, even. But, why? What’s changing? Out with the old In short: Vizio is finally ditching its SmartCast smart TV platform and replacing it with a brand-new interface. But is that really enough to resuscitate a brand on life support? In this case, I think it just might be.
As I’ve gone back through my Vizio TV reviews over the past few years, there’s definitely a recurring theme of SmartCast being the albatross around Vizio’s otherwise very sturdy neck.
The old Vizio SmartCast homescreen Image used with permission by copyright holder I’ve even gone so far as to suggest that you should bypass SmartCast entirely by using a Roku or Fire TV or Chromecast — anything that’s not SmartCast. That’s … not a great look. Even though SmartCast has gotten better — Vizio managed to reduce lag, increase app loading times, and bolster app support — the layout continued to bother me.
While we’ve come to a point where even though Roku, Google TV , Fire TV, and even Samsung’s Tizen and LG’s webOS all have their differences, there’s a common theme to how you navigate and operate those systems — simple things like menu layout, app layout, and organization. Those essential elements are familiar. SmartCast never really had that. It always felt like it required too much work. And if it is too much work for me — a TV expert — then you can bet it would feel even worse to someone who is new to smart TVs or has gotten used to a competing platform.
Homing in on the problem I believe Vizio has successfully fixed all of that. Its new interface is simply called Vizio Homescreen.
 While I might have chosen a different name, I have to admit there’s nothing wrong with that moniker, and, more importantly, it’s a good representation of the experience you get when using it.
There is a menu on the left rail of the home screen. As you scroll through the menu, you get access to what’s contained within each section, which displays across the rest of the screen real estate. There’s a header up top, and then you can scroll deeper down below that. As you make selections, the banner is populated with new graphic content.
It just looks better. It’s a dark interface, the tiles are the right size, and even the font is pleasant. And it feels better to navigate as well. There’s even an on-screen virtual keyboard.
It’s still a full operating system with its own apps, though I haven’t yet been able to dive in deep enough yet to determine how app support looks. Most of the apps you want to access are here, but some questions remain unanswered. I haven’t been able to confirm on an app-by-app basis whether it supports Dolby Atmos , for instance. That was one of the issues I had with SmartCast: new apps were slow to become available on the platform, and when they did, sometimes they weren’t as fully featured. My hope is that aspect improves as well.
Previous Next 1 6 The kids and family category page Vizio The Vizio app catalog Vizio The Hulu app details page Vizio Details for a movie Vizio The Game Day Hub Vizio The home screen search page Vizio Vizio Homescreen is definitely a huge step in the right direction because no matter how good the picture quality, a TV that’s a pain to use will make you not want to use it.
Still, in order for Vizio to stage a comeback, it’s going to have to nail picture quality too. So where is Vizio on that front? Picture quality Vizio was doing fairly well in the picture quality department already. I don’t think Vizio has a long row to hoe in terms of making its TVs competitive with TCL and Hisense. But it does need to remain competitive, specifically in the brightness, contrast, and backlight control departments. Those are areas that all TV manufacturers are focusing on, and they are areas that consumers recognize are important, too.
Ultimately, Vizio needs to offer something that TCL and Hisense aren’t.
Vizio’s new batch of TVs needs to offer high brightness — and, historically, they have — with solid black levels. An area that could use a little improvement is backlight control. We need to see mini-LED backlight systems with a high density of backlights, broken down into as many tight little zones as possible. And the backlight control algorithm needs to be snappy so that we don’t see active brightening and darkening on the screen. Vizio can do this — it’s just a question of whether it will.
Vizio’s performance in the areas of color accuracy, color volume, and upscaling already are in a good spot, but one area in which Vizio has an opportunity to school its competition is motion resolution. If Vizio can offer the best motion for the price, then that would be another feather in its cap. Because, ultimately, Vizio needs to offer something that TCL and Hisense aren’t. To me, that space is motion resolution — smooth cinematic content and blur-free sports without soap opera effect.
 That’s Vizio’s real opportunity for differentiation.
Price and performance And then, of course, there’s price. Vizio needs to shed any ideas that just because its brand has been in the market longer than TCL and Hisense, it can justify slightly higher prices. It can’t — unless it can offer the best quality control in the midtier market. If Vizio can consistently put out clean screens that produce consistent picture quality, then I suppose Vizio could charge just a bit more because, again, it could point to a real superiority in a specific area in which others struggle.
Otherwise, Vizio needs to meet or beat TCL and Hisense on price-to-performance ratio and features.
And then the final piece? It’s going to need a massive branding campaign that I reckon is going to require some significant spending. TCL has locked down a partnership with the NFL, and Hisense has partnered with the NBA , meaning that those brands’ names are going to be plastered all over two of the biggest sports in the U.S. Vizio is going to need to clap back with something just as impactful, if not even higher-impact.
So to answer the question I posed earlier: Is a new smart TV operating system enough for Vizio to stage a comeback? No. Vizio will need to do more.
But I will say that the new Vizio Homescreen is a huge step in the right direction. With just a few more smart — and probably expensive — moves, Vizio could be the comeback story of the decade.
Editors' Recommendations You Asked 10: picture calibration, best budget buys, and premium small screens Vizio has new smart TVs and soundbars for 2023, but the best may be yet to come How to watch Super Bowl 2022 on a Vizio TV Vizio’s entire 2021 TV line-up: Gaming-friendly models start at $250 Vizio’s 55- and 65-inch 4K OLED TVs are available starting at $1,300 Features Audio / Video Vizio has finally unveiled its next generation of TVs, the company's 2021 lineup, and among them is the company's first-ever OLED television, priced at $1,300 for the 55-inch model and $2,000 for the 65-inch model.
These are the lowest introductory prices for an OLED TV that we've seen in the U.S. and the first time a competitor has undercut LG, which for many years was the only brand making OLED TVs. That news alone is a game-changer, but it gets better: These will not be "budget TVs" from the standpoint of picture quality and overall performance. I expect these TVs to give LG, and possibly Sony, a run for their money.
First a trickle, then a downpour To put Vizio's pricing in perspective, LG's least expensive OLED model this year, the BX, is presently priced at $1,500 for a 55-inch set and $2,200 for a 65-inch. Granted, that's just a $200 difference, but consider that the BX OLED does not have LG's best processor. Vizio's OLEDs will have the company's all-new processor, which subjectively looked excellent to me during demonstrations at CES 2020.
Audio / Video Ever since Vizio took the wraps off its ambitious 2020/2021 TV plans during CES in January, we've been eagerly awaiting the full details, including prices, finalized specs, and release dates. Today, we got what we wanted, including an official confirmation of Vizio's first OLED TV model, which we expect will be a powerful competitor of both LG and Sony's OLED models.
The new models boast a wide range of the most advanced technologies like multiple HDR formats, Dolby Atmos, and HDMI 2.1, however, none of them support NextGen TV (a.k.a. ASTC 3.0). This means you'll need an external ATSC 3.0 tuner if you decide you want to try out the latest free over-the-air broadcast standard with one of these Vizio models. These are the TVs that support NextGen TV.
Audio / Video At long last, a Disney+ app has arrived on Vizio SmartCast TVs. A software update is now underway that will bring the hugely popular streaming service to every Vizio SmartCast TV going back to 2016. It ends a three-month period since the launch of Disney+ on November 12 -- no doubt the longest three months in the lives of Vizio-owning Disney fans -- where the service was unavailable as a native app.
Initially, Disney+ could be viewed on Vizio TVs using Apple's AirPlay 2 technology but this required a compatible iOS device. It wasn't until a December software update that the ability to do this via Chromecast was added, bring Android users into the Disney+ fold. Nonetheless, a solution that did not require a third-party device remained unavailable until now.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
