Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Audio / Video Features Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? LG’s M-Series Wireless OLED TV is the future we need By Caleb Denison Close Zeke Jones / Digital Trends While LG has a solid track record of bringing its innovative tech to market so folks can actually buy it, a lot of what we see at CES is vaporware. This stuff is exciting to see amid the mayhem of the world’s biggest tech show, but then, all too often — poof — it’s gone, never to be seen again. That being the case, I tend to hold my excitement at bay until a product is in my hands for review.
Wait, this is a … what is this? That’s interesting, man. That’s interesting! It really ties the room together, does it not? This is our concern, dude Far out, man. Far out And so I must confess, I forgot all about the M–Series wireless TV that LG showed me at CES earlier this year. That was a mistake because the wireless signal transmission LG has cooked up for its new TV series has broad implications for the future of TV, and we should be talking about it.
So, when LG recently reached out to let me know that it was shipping me a 77-inch version of its new wireless M-Series model for review and invited me to visit its facilities for a briefing on the wireless tech behind the TV, my excitement was rekindled. Now that we know that both the TV and the tech behind it are real , let’s take a look at why this development is so exciting.
Sony Bravia X95L mini-LED vs. TCL QM8 QLED: The best LCD TV and the one you should buy LG’s new M-Series Wireless OLED TVs start at $5,000 Are TCL and Hisense the next LG and Samsung? Wait, this is a … what is this? Zeke Jones / Digital Trends If you’ve been thinking that wireless video doesn’t sound new, you’d be right! Wireless video devices have been around for many years, and the newest ones aimed at working with TVs — like this wireless HDMI kit from Monoprice — can get some basic wireless video jobs done for a very reasonable price. But these devices have considerable limitations: They add hardware and require their own power source, neither of which is convenient.
They accommodate only one HDMI connection, which means they need to be used with an HDMI switcher of some sort if more than one device is to be connected to the TV.
They are limited to 4K resolution at 30Hz, which is inadequate for today’s game consoles, as well as a lot of online video content.
They operate on frequencies that are often shared with other wireless tech in the home and are thus prone to interference.
They often “drop frames,” which manifests as stuttered video.
That’s interesting, man. That’s interesting! Zeke Jones / Digital Trends LG’s wireless solution is well-suited for typical TV use in a home. A wireless audio/video receiver is built into the TV display panel, and the transmitter is built into a black box — or, hub — which has all the ins and outs you would typically expect to find on the back of a TV. This way, consumers don’t have to do anything unfamiliar to get the TV working. Once everything is unboxed, you plug the cable box, game console, or streaming box into the black cube, then plug the black cube and TV into power, and that’s it. There aren’t any new steps, it’s just that some of the steps happen in a different location from the TV.
LG also uses a rather remarkably high-frequency band for its wireless technology, so that there’s very little chance other wireless devices will interfere with the video signal. Plus, the wireless signal can handle up to 30 Gbps worth of bandwidth, which means it can handle 4K video at up to 120 frames per second, along with uncompressed audio with virtually no latency. Theoretically, that means no degradation of picture quality for 4K Blu-rays or any other video source, and no lag for gamers.
Because the HDMI 2.1 spec calls for at least 40Gbps of bandwidth — if not the full 48Gbps of which the standard is capable — I understand why some may be initially concerned that the TV’s wireless technology may not be able to handle bandwidth-intensive video signals, like those coming from an Xbox Series X or a 4K Blu-ray player. I was too when I wrote this article. However, LG has since explained that once the video processor in the Zero Connect box has done its job with the full incoming video signal, the resulting “instructional” signal sent from the Zero Connect box to the TV is much less bandwidth intensive. In other words, 30 Gbps is well more than enough to get the job done without any degradation to video quality and integrity.
It really ties the room together, does it not? Zeke Jones / Digital Trends Presently, LG’s wireless M-Series TV technology essentially eliminates one set of HDMI cables in a typical home entertainment system. While this may sound unremarkable, it actually goes a long way toward making installation simpler and prettier.
Homeowners pay professional installers and integrators hundreds to thousands of dollars to install conduit behind drywall, pull multiple in-wall rated HDMI cables through said conduit, and connect those cables to equipment that’s tucked away in an unseen location, all in service of getting a TV to look more like art than it does a TV in a room.
For around the same cost, we can now skip that song and dance, along with all the hassle that comes with it, and still get that look. All that’s needed is a power outlet in close proximity to the TV.
But that’s just the immediate impact this technology will have on TVs. Eventually, we may see wireless transmission protocol normalized between all AV devices. Imagine if your Xbox, PlayStation, cable box, Blu-ray player, and audio system all used the same wireless technology — perhaps all the headaches and hassle involved with HDMI cables could go away forever. Wouldn’t that be great? The answer to that rhetorical question is yes.
This is our concern, dude Zeke Jones / Digital Trends I’m excited and hopeful. But I have some concerns.
I’ve not thoroughly tested this technology. And while I appreciate LG’s confidence in it, my 25 years of experience in this game tells me that I — and, eventually, LG’s customers — are going to discover some bugs. This is just how first-gen technology works. I am optimistic, however, that if issues are discovered, LG will be quick to deploy a patch, as I have witnessed them do many times in the past.
I’m also not sure that 30 feet of line-of-sight will be ample range for very long. Eventually, this tech will need to see through walls like Superman and travel a distance a bit longer than 30 feet.
But mostly, I’m concerned about how cagey LG might be with this technology. I have it on good authority that LG is applying for all kinds of patents and trademarks, but how broad will LG’s ownership span? Will LG be generous and license its technology out for a reasonable fee, or will it get stingy and demand a king’s ransom? Or worse, refuse to license it at all? The worst-case scenario, though, is that this technology doesn’t go anywhere beyond the M-Series. I point to WiSA’s wireless audio technology as an example of a great technology that the world simply refuses to adopt, even after a solid decade of it being awesome.
Far out, man. Far out The future of video is wireless, and it doesn’t have to be far out ahead of us. LG’s M-Series TV is here today, but it’s going to take a combination of consumer interest and industry support to make it fly.
LG set up the pins because now it’s time for us to knock ’em down.
Editors' Recommendations You Asked: plasma TV replacements, cheap OLEDs, and Sharp’s return Toss LG’s StanbyMe Go 27-inch suitcase TV in your car for $1,000 LG’s giant, wireless OLED TV gets a giant price After years of bashing OLED, Samsung now set to buy panels from LG LG releases 2023 OLED TV prices: evo G3 starts at $2,500, preorders start March 6 Features LG Audio / Video In October 2022, LG debuted webOS Hub, an enhanced version of the smart TV software it uses for its own TVs that can be licensed by other manufacturers. At the time, webOS Hub was not a full replica of the webOS that runs on LG TVs, given that it was missing some features like Apple's AirPlay and HomeKit support.
Today, LG says that webOS Hub is now compatible with all of those missing Apple ingredients. Apple TV app, Apple Music, AirPlay, and HomeKit are available to compatible webOS Hub TVs in more than 100 countries and regions.
Audio / Video Wall-mounting a TV is no picnic, especially when that TV measures 97 diagonal inches. But LG's new Signature OLED M Series TV could make that task much easier. The giant, 4K OLED TV uses LG's Zero Connect wireless technology to effectively eliminate the need for any AV cabling from AV receivers, set-top boxes, soundbars, or game consoles to the TV. As long as the OLED M3 has power, it doesn't need any other wires. LG is showing the M3 for the first time at CES 2023 but hasn't offered any details on price or availability.
The M3's wireless connection is powered by the included Zero Connect box -- a cheekily-named gadget that is essentially the same device as Samsung's One Connect box, except that the Zero Connect box uses a fully wireless connection to the M3 instead of Samsung's thin umbilical cord. One, Zero ... you get the idea. LG says the new box will have "multiple" ports for connecting devices, though it hasn't said how many and what kind.
Audio / Video Ahead of its official CES 2023 presentation, LG has given us a taste of its TV tech for the coming year, especially as it relates to the company's lineup of OLED TVs. Once again, the G Series takes center stage, with the G3 OLED evo 4K. LG says that thanks to its Brightness Booster Max technology, the 55-, 65-, and 77-inch G3 models will see an increase in brightness by up to 70%.
The G3 OLED evo will also look a lot better when wall-mounted. LG calls its new One Wall Design approach "ultra-seamless" and says that it will leave no visible gap between the wall and the G3. That's saying a lot considering the G2 OLED evo was already impressively tight to the wall when wall-mounted.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
