Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Audio / Video Features Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Sony Bravia X95L mini-LED vs. TCL QM8 QLED: The best LCD TV and the one you should buy By Caleb Denison Close This comparison puts Sony’s flagship mini-LED TV, the Sony X95L , versus the TCL QM8 , TCL’s best mini-LED TV. I’ve called the Sony X95L the best LCD TV I’ve ever tested, and I’ve said that the TCL QM8 might just be the best value in TV right now, despite a few notable quirks.
Design Sound Google TV: UI and native apps Anti-glare and off-angle viewing Picture quality Gaming Value But is this really a fair fight? There’s more than $2,000 separating these 85-inch TVs. In terms of price, Sony’s X90L is a closer match to the TCL QM8. But in terms of technology and the fact that these are the best LCD TVs on offer from Sony and TCL, I think this versus will be fun — never mind whether it makes a lot of sense.
I also think a lot of folks want to know how close the TCL, with its aggressive mini-LED backlight and dimming zone count, can get to the Sony (and if it can maybe even surpass it).
TCL QM8 mini-LED TV at CES 2023: a 98-inch giant with a built-in subwoofer Sony X95L TCL QM8 Design These TVs have some notable design differences worth keeping in mind. The TCL QM8 uses a centralized pedestal stand that will allow it to sit on just about any size table. The Sony X95L, however, is going to need a larger stand. You can position the feet more toward the center of the TV for a narrower media cabinet, but as I’ve got it set up in our studio , the X95L is taking up all but five inches of our BDI console’s 79-inch width.
1.
TCL QM8 2.
Sony X95L 3.
TCL QM8 4.
Sony X95L Otherwise, the TVs are sufficiently sleek and shallow, with trim bezels and virtually no difference in mounting depth, As far as aesthetics go, it’s a draw.
When it comes to the remotes, I like the slightly more compact size of the Sony. And when it comes to button layout, the Sony comes with some advantages, like a wrench button that brings up a pop-up menu for quick access to the most popular settings. But the TCL remote is backlit, and that’s going to get you the win every single time. The remote category goes to TCL.
Sound I know we’re used to TVs just not sounding good, but both TCL and Sony have put in some effort here. And I know a lot of people figure that if you spend this much money on a TV, it needs to sound at least decent.
TCL QM8 Digital Trends Well, I’m not in love with how either of these sets sound. I saw a review somewhere where the reviewer said the X95L lacks bass, and that is straight-up false. If you run the acoustic calibration system for the Sony X95L, you will absolutely get some bass out of this TV. More bass, as a matter of fact, than the TCL QM8, which has a dedicated subwoofer on the back. With the Sony, you also have some special integration with some of Sony’s soundbars, or systems like the HT-A9 , where the TV can act as a center channel.
So, again, I’m not excited about the audio from either — I definitely will encourage you to consider at least a soundbar.
 But there’s a clear winner in the audio category, and it’s the Sony.
Google TV: UI and native apps Now I want to talk about the Google TV integration. And before you go skipping this section because you think you don’t care — Google TV is Google TV, right? Wrong. Not all Google TV implementations end up being the same.
I won’t take up your time talking about how the menus are slightly different, or that Sony makes it easier to turn off Eco mode, or how they each have different versions of gaming dashboards. No, what I want to talk about is an issue that perhaps has always existed at some level, but it’s really starting to rear its ugly head now.
Zeke Jones / Digital Trends When I reviewed the TCL QM8, I watched a lot of the Good Good Golf YouTube channel and was beginning to think that hosts Colin and Ryder needed some color-grading workshops, because the skin tones on those videos were not great. Everyone looked sunburned. And while I know all those folks are getting plenty of sun out on the links, I know they aren’t supposed to look that red.
Zeke Jones / Digital Trends As it turns out, there’s nothing wrong with Colin and Ryder’s color-grading skills. The issue is the YouTube app built into this TV. And I’ve seen it on the 65-inch and the 98-inch models as well. Once the stream hits 4K resolution, here comes the red. Grace looked straight-up lobster-like on the TCL, but more pinkish on the Sony when we used each TV’s built-in YouTube app. But when we switch to the Apple TV as a source and play the same content, everything looks better. On both TVs, actually — but the horrible redness on everything that we saw on the TCL when it was using its built-in app is now gone.
Zeke Jones / Digital Trends Lest you think this is a TCL problem, I found issues elsewhere. on the Max app built into the Sony X95, the left and right pillarbox bars on Justice League (in Dolby Vision , by the way) are gray instead of black. I actually thought this was an issue with the TV. But, again, I switched to the Apple TV 4K and used its Max app, pumped through to the TV via HDMI, and the pillarbox bars were as black as they should be.
Zeke Jones / Digital Trends The takeaway is that I am losing my trust in the apps built into TVs. Not all are bad. It’s not always problematic. But sometimes it is. And do you want to wonder if you’re getting the best picture? I don’t. For that reason, I’m seriously thinking about not using built-in apps anymore. Not until all this gets ironed out, and I’m not sure it ever will.
Zeke Jones / Digital Trends For now, when it comes to Google TV implementation, it’s a draw. But in this case, the draw really is a loss for both sets. I will say, though, that I prefer the Sony TV’s interface. TCL does have its own live-streaming TV service built in that you can use instead of Pluto or FreeVee (which Google TV itself has integrated ). But at the end of the day, I like clicking around the Sony better, even though I wish the remote I used to do the clicking was TCL’s. Reluctantly, Sony gets the win for the interface.
Anti-glare and off-angle viewing Sony has a slight edge when it comes to anti-glare. While both TVs reflected our studio light on a pitch-black screen when the light was right behind the camera, the Sony toned down the brightness of the reflection a little more. Once the TVs were on, the anti-glare on both was sufficient. I do have to remind everyone, though, that the sun beaming through a window behind you is always going to show up on your screen. There is no screen treatment technology that can fully eclipse the power of the sun (not yet, anyway). I know there are some crazy light-absorbing materials out there — you’ll see them in the best projector screens — but they aren’t in TVs yet. So just know that both have decent anti-glare, but the Sony X95L’s is just a touch better.
Zeke Jones / Digital Trends Next is off-angle viewing, and I am not going to waste your time because the contest is not even close. The Sony has outstanding off-angle performance, and the TCL QM8’s off-angle performance is not good at all. Once you are off dead center of the TCL QM8, its brightness advantages disappear. The Sony looks brighter from every angle other than straight on. Off-angle viewing? Sony’s got this one.
Picture quality Now to the part I think you’ve all been waiting for: the picture quality comparison. You may have already guessed that Sony is going to win this section. But it’s worth reading to the end because there’s a bit of a twist that you might not see coming.
Brightness Let’s start with brightness. There is no doubt that the TCL QM8 is a significantly brighter TV overall. By “overall,” I mean that the TCL QM8’s average picture level, or APL, is significantly higher than the Sony X95L’s APL. We compared three series of clips to get a full sense of each TV’s capabilities.
The first run of footage we examined was exposed for the TCL QM8. As such, it looked more or less normal, while the Sony X95L looked dim by comparison. It is extremely important that you understand that what we can show you here is not a real-life representation of what you see in person. Because of our cameras and workflow, plus the variable of what you’re reading this on, we can’t show you all the stops of brightness that we can see in real life. So the Sony X95L looked abnormally dim in this instance. But hopefully, you can still get a sense of the fact that the TCL QM8, on average, is significantly brighter.
Zeke Jones / Digital Trends Now we’re going to show you the opposite. This is all HDR content, by the way, with the backlight systems maxed out. Below, you can see that by comparison, the TCL looks aggressively bright while the Sony is clearly putting out an excellent picture.
Zeke Jones / Digital Trends This third image is after I have backed the TCL’s brightness down from 100 — which is the default setting in HDR movie mode — to about 65, which perceptually matches the Sony X95L. And what I’m hoping you’ll see here is that the TCL still looks brighter overall. But what I really don’t want you to miss from this brightness discussion is the following: Zeke Jones / Digital Trends While the TCL QM8 has a higher average picture level, the Sony’s HDR highlights are just as bright as the TCL QM8’s. And, because the Sony doesn’t overly brighten everything, its contrast therefore is better.
So, even though the TCL QM8 is brighter, I like what Sony is doing with its brightness power a little better. So the brightness category goes to Sony.
Color We see Sony’s more refined approach having a positive net impact on color as well. The TCL QM8 has brighter colors, but they are ever so slightly washed-out compared to the Sony, which produces bright colors with depth and richness that the QM8 just can’t quite match.
Zeke Jones / Digital Trends And, as I mentioned in the reviews for each of these TVs individually, Sony’s out-of-the-box color performance and white balance in the Custom picture preset is extremely accurate, whereas the TCL QM8’s is not as accurate and is harder to adjust toward accuracy using the TV’s content management system (CMS) and white-balance adjustments. In fact, I’ve heard from some folks that they just didn’t work for them at all. That’s not as damning as a statement as it may sound, though. Stick with me.
So, for color performance, Sony gets the win.
Black levels In terms of black-level performance, as well as backlight performance, the TCL QM8 produces what appears to be slightly less halo around bright objects on pitch-black backgrounds than the Sony X95L. And I do mean slight. Also, you have to be dead on-angle for that to be seen on the TCL QM8. However, without having these TVs stacked side by side, I don’t know that you would be able to draw that conclusion because the Sony X95L is so good at hiding its dimming zones, and the contrast is so good on the TV that you aren’t going to pick up on the tiny bit of halo effect that is present. Also, the Sony has better shadow detail than the TCL QM8, which seems to achieve its inky blacks at the slight expense of a little shadow detail. I’m not sure how much folks would miss those shadow details unless they were looking specifically for them.
But if I have to pick a winner in the black level and backlight control category, I have to give it to the Sony X95L.
Motion This is another win for the Sony, because Sony’s motion processing is just so dang good, but I want to point out that the TCL QM8 is no slouch. I see a bit more judder and stutter on the TCL QM8, but that’s only because I have to not use motion smoothing at all for my tastes, whereas with the Sony, I can turn Cinemotion on low and avoid soap opera effect while getting slightly smoother cinematic motion. So, for motion, it’s a win for Sony, but not by a landslide.
Upscaling and image processing I’m putting these two in the same category for the convenience of talking about them concisely, but please remember that upscaling is the process of taking a lower-resolution image, for which there is only information for a fraction of the pixels on the screen, and upscaling that image so that it fills the whole screen. Without upscaling, a 1080p HD image would take up just one-quarter of one of these screens because a 4K TV has about four times the number of pixels. You have to go from 2 million or so in 1080p display and ramp that up to 8.3 million.
You can tell the difference in upscaling between two TVs when looking for the sharpness of the image. The Sony has a sharper, more detailed picture in general, so when upscaling 1080p and 720P sources, it’s still going to look a bit sharper.
Zeke Jones / Digital Trends For cleanup of low-bit-depth content — like a lot of the content we stream on YouTube, for example — the difference is not very stark. The above image comes from content streaming in 720p on Sling TV.
At first, there was plenty of color banding on both TVs, but as soon as I implemented smooth gradation features on each TV, they both cleaned up nicely. In fact, the QM8 does a slightly better job. Of course, when the picture is moving, the Sony is a little faster on cleanup, so when we stack it all together, the Sony looks slightly better, but the TCL is doing a remarkably decent job, and I’m not upset about it at all. I could easily live with the QM8.
Gaming I’m going to touch on gaming very briefly because these TVs are very close in terms of their gaming features and performance. Both TVs have a lot to brag about. The Sony is touted as being the best mate for the PlayStation 5, because, of course it is. The TCL offers THX-certified game mode and FreeSync Premium Pro. It can also go up to 144Hz if you hardcore PC gamers out there need that. So far as I can tell, both of these TVs are superb for gaming. The HDR gaming performance is outstanding — of course, the Sony’s color is a bit more accurate still — but both have super-low input lag. Maybe not on the LG G3’s level, but very low. And the backlights don’t seem to freak out in VRR modes.
 It’s all very good.
Zeke Jones / Digital Trends I’m going to hand the TCL the gaming win for one reason and one reason only: its high-refresh-rate ports are separate from the eARC port.
 That’s it. If you have more than one gaming device that goes above 4K 60Hz, the TCL allows you to connect both and still have your eARC port available for a soundbar or AV receiver.
Value So, if you’ve been keeping score, we can all see that Sony ran away with most of the category wins here. But there’s one category we have not discussed yet, and that is value.
Let me break it down for you like this: I prefer the Sony X95L. I would be thrilled to own this TV. I am sad that following this review, I have to pack it up so it can be returned. It will be missed. If cost were no object, I’d choose the Sony X95L in a heartbeat. It is, by most of the measures we have covered here, a superior TV in terms of accuracy, and it just happens to put out the picture quality that I like best.
Zeke Jones / Digital Trends But here’s the thing. Cost is an object for most folks — and that even (or especially!) includes me. If I needed to buy an 85-inch TV using my money or the money of one of my close family members or friends, do you think I’m going to buy the X95L? No. Because that price is just way higher than what most folks are prepared to pay. I’m not saying that Sony has no business charging that much — it’s the best LCD TV on the market, so mark that puppy up, Sony! Be proud of what you’ve made. It’s an elite TV. Sell it for an elite price, and let those who can own it have the bragging rights.
No, even though I wish the TCL QM8 did a few things differently or better, I’m buying the QM8 all day. Yes, I’ll know in the back of my head that it is technically overly bright. I will know that the colors could technically be a bit richer than they are. And I’ll especially know that I’m not getting the best picture if I don’t have one of the two or three best seats in the house. But when you strip the QM8 out of this admittedly unfair comparison, it looks pretty terrific to most people.
So while the Sony X95L wins out technically, the winner of this shootout for the vast majority of consumers trying to purchase an 85-inch TV is the TCL QM8.
Sony X95L TCL QM8 Editors' Recommendations I saw Sony’s 2023 TVs, and I think this model might be the best TV of the year Sony claims mini-LED superiority with 2022 8K and 4K TVs Features Sony Audio / Video Best Buy is staying true to its name, as the retail giant is churning out some impressive prices as part of its Black Friday deals. This is great news if you’re hoping to land a discount on a new TV this Black Friday shopping season. It’s pretty easy to find price drops on TVs, with even the best TVs seeing frequent discounts, but right now we’re seeing more significant TV deals taking place with Black Friday around the corner.
In Best Buy Black Friday deals you can currently find deals on top TV brands. If you want to look at individual brand's offers, check out Samsung TV Black Friday deals, Sony TV Black Friday deals and LG Black Friday deals. The smallest TV on this list is 43-inches, so if you need something smaller head over to 32-inch Black Friday TV deals. For something larger, browse 55-inch TV Black Friday deals and 70-inch TV Black Friday deals. If you just have a gift card to burn, or you're just loyal to Best Buy, check out some of the great Best Buy Black Friday laptop deals happening now too.
Audio / Video If you've been figuring out what size TV you should buy and it turns out 32 inches is just right, you may have found your options a little slimmer than with bigger TVs. While many of the best TVs are much bigger, you can still buy from some of the best TV brands as part of the Black Friday deals going on at the moment. There are some truly fantastic 32-inch TV Black Friday deals around with deep discounts to be found. We've picked out the very best deal while also featuring others you can check out.
Best 32-inch TV Black Friday deal Insignia 32-inch F20 HD Smart Fire TV -- $90, was $150 For a super cheap TV that will suit either your living room or your bedroom, the Insignia 32-inch F20 HD Smart Fire TV has all the essentials you need at this price. It might only have a 720p resolution but it has Fire TV built-in so it's simple to find all your favorite apps and thereby stream plenty of different shows and movies. Additionally, there's Alexa voice control support saving you from needing to grab your remote so often. Instead, you can speak to the TV to change input, change channel, find something to watch and all kinds of things.
Audio / Video If a 65-inch TV is the perfect size for your home theater setup upgrade according to our guide on what size TV to buy, then you shouldn't miss the discounts that are available in this year's Black Friday deals. There are offers involving some of the best TV brands, including LG, Samsung, and Sony, ranging from affordable choices to top-of-the-line models that require a hefty investment. Sony TV Black Friday deals have some cheaper 65-inch options, and Samsung TV Black Friday deals have some of the more expensive ones (think The Frame). Best Buy Black Friday TV deals and Amazon Black Friday deals cover the gamut, so check them out if brand and size aren't too important. You're going to have to be quick with your purchase though -- we're not sure how much stock retailers have available for these 65-inch TVs for the shopping holiday, so if you don't want to miss out, you'll need to complete your transaction as soon as possible.
For other sizes, browse the best 32-inch TV Black Friday deals, 55-inch TV Black Friday deals 70-inch TV Black Friday deals and 75-inch TV Black Friday deals.
The best 65-inch TV Black Friday deal Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
