Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Audio / Video Products TCL QM8 vs. Hisense U8K: budget battle royale By Caleb Denison Close The showdown between the Hisense U8K and the TCL QM8 is long overdue. This turns out to be one heck of a comparison, because these two TVs are both very, very good, especially considering their highly attractive price points. I think it’s fair to say that these TVs are setting the standard for what’s to be expected when it comes to performance for the price. The fact that these TVs do what they do at their price points means that TVs costing more need to offer some pretty significant upgrades to justify their higher prices. That makes them a driving force in the market, and kind of a big deal.
Video Hardware Software Sound Picture quality Verdict Video The race between these two TVs is pretty tight. I mean, they are neck and neck in so many ways that I can tell you right now which one you’ll prefer is probably going to come down to one, maybe two little considerations. It’s almost a toss-up. But, I know folks latch on to very specific issues that they find meaningful, so hopefully, I can help you figure out which one of these two TVs you would prefer to buy in this comparison.
Hardware Stands Starting with the stands. The Hisense U8K has two feet that you can position at two different heights, and you can set them in toward the middle for a narrower stance that works with smaller media stands, or go for the wide look for more stability and to accommodate longer soundbars.
Hisense U8K Zeke Jones / Digital Trends The TCL QM8 has a pedestal-style stand, and it also offers two different height settings for accommodating a soundbar, though it is worth pointing out that the soundbar will be kind of high-centered on the pedestal.
Sony Bravia X95L mini-LED vs. TCL QM8 QLED: The best LCD TV and the one you should buy Hisense kicks off its U8K mini-LED TV availability with deep discounts TCL’s brand new 65-inch Mini-LED 4K TV is already $500 off I mention soundbars because I think a lot of folks will want sound that’s as good as the picture, but unlike many TVs today, these both have better-than-average onboard audio, which I’ll discuss in a moment.
TCL QM8 Zeke Jones / Digital Trends Both TVs are attractive enough, but the TCL is about half as thick, and I also like that its logo isn’t shiny, so if I had to pick a winner on aesthetic, I’d go with TCL in this case.
Inputs Both TVs have four HDMI inputs. On the Hisense, two inputs are labeled 4K 144Hz, indicating those two are HDMI 2.1-compliant, however, note that one of those 4K 144Hz ports is the eARC port. The TCL has one port marked 4K 144Hz, and one marked 4K 120Hz, but neither of those is the eARC port, so hooking up a soundbar or AV receiver to that eARC doesn’t take up one of your TV’s gaming ports. I like that. Another point for TCL.
1.
Hisense Remote 2.
TCL Remote The TCL remote is slimmer and longer and sits flat on a surface; the Hisense remote is shorter, wider, and wobbles on the table a bit. Not sure if you care, but thought that was worth pointing out. Drop a comment now if remote wobble rubs you the wrong way.
Both of these remotes are backlit, but the TCL remote backlight is usefully brighter, and it’s motion activated, so when you pick it up, it lights up. The Hisense remote dims a couple of seconds after your last button press and doesn’t light up until you press a button, so for me, that’s not especially helpful. I prefer the TCL remote, even if it is a bit larger.
Software UI Power the TVs on and you’re going to be greeted by the Google TV interface. There are no Roku versions of these TVs at this time, and I have my doubts there ever will be. I’ve spent a good amount of time clicking through these menus, and they both behave the same: They’re equally snappy and responsive and app loading times are about the same for each.
Zeke Jones / Digital Trends There are meaningful differences in performance, but the menus are broken down a bit differently, and as I’m always having to get into the menus, I’ve noticed that I tend to prefer how TCL has chosen to lay things out. I don’t think this is a meaningful difference for most people, though.
Supported tech Let’s talk about support. These TVs offer so many features that it is impossible to list them all, but I’ll run through those I think are most important. Both offer HDR 10, HDR 10 plus, Dolby Vision (2745441), and HLG support. The Hisense packs an ATSC 3.0 tuner (1308536) in it, and the TCL does not, though so far, I don’t consider so-called NextGEN OTA broadcast support a bonus for most folks, and by the time ATSC 3.0 does offer something cool, it might be time for a new TV. That said, the Hisense has it and the TCL doesn’t, so props to Hisense.
Sound As for sound quality, I first want to say that I appreciate that both Hisense and TCL put some effort into the onboard sound systems for these TVs. They both have big bass transducers on the back to help add fullness and richness to the sound, so it isn’t just a piercing, nasal mess. But the Hisense U8K sounds significantly better than the TCL QM8. The U8K has a better balanced sound signature, whereas the TCL tries to woo you with overly crispy treble and that big bass, but not enough in-between – the midrange is seriously lacking in comparison to the Hisense here. The QM8 sounds better than a lot of TVs, but this is a head-to-head, and the U8K handily takes the audio win.
1.
Hisense U8K 2.
TCL QM8 Picture quality Brightness and black levels Performing this side-by-side comparison was fun and revealing to me as a TV reviewer, and I’m very excited to share it with you. But I also need to remind everyone that many of the minute differences in picture quality that I’m going to point out could never be registered unless the TVs were side by side. If I were to put you in a room with one TV and let you watch a 5-minute clip on repeat and let you take notes for a full hour, then put you in another room with the other TV and asked you to do the same, I’m willing to bet money that you would not catch about 80% of what I found in this side-by-side comparison.
Some of this stuff, we’ll want to take with some skepticism, but there are a few elements here that I think make a meaningful impact on the daily TV-watching experience, so I’ll be sure to call those out.
Hisense U8K (left) and TCL QM8 Image used with permission by copyright holder I’ll take you through the experience I had, which started on the Google TV home screen.
With the TCL in its movie mode and brightness set to 49, and the Hisense in its Filmmaker Mode ( I found this to be true in Theater Day and Theater Night as well), I noticed the black background on some of the slides was much blacker on the TCL QM8 than it was on Hisense U8K. This was consistent across multiple backgrounds. Also, I noticed that even with the brightness juiced up on the Hisense, the white tiles for Netflix and YouTube look brighter and whiter on the TCL.
Thinking this might just be a difference in how the TV handles the interface, I went into Netflix , and I noticed more of the same. It’s as if the black areas are made dark gray, even though the Hisense is very capable of dimming these areas down to black. Everything seems raised a bit, even though the picture doesn’t have the same brightness punch, which is interesting.
Keeping that in mind, I loaded up one of my favorite clips to use for evaluation, and the Hisense background was more dark gray, while the TCL’s was more black. Pulling up a YouTube clip in 8K HDR Dolby Vision – which not presented in Dolby Vision because YouTube doesn’t support it — we get something to dig our teeth into right away.
Zeke Jones / Digital Trends About 18 seconds in, the creator starts slowly illuminating the scene. What I noticed was the TCL started showing the signs of gold foil on a champagne bottle taking shape, but it was not to be seen on the Hisense. And I didn’t see it on the Hisense for almost a second after it emerged on the TCL, even though the timecodes were the same.
This surprised me because, based on the raised picture level I saw on those smart TV screens earlier, I figured the Hisense might show the bottle first. There were excellent blacks and no blooming as the backlight system needed to activate, yet I didn’t see the lowlight object. On the TCL, we got great blacks, and no blooming as the local dimming system kicked on those mini-LED backlights, but I could see the outline of the bottle on the screen.
Then as I proceeded to full brightness of the scene, the TCL was clearly a bit brighter than the U8K. And remember, this is HDR content, so the brightness and contrast are maxed and it’s really about how the TV’s processor decides it’s going to present the image. And the TCL QM8 is punching a little harder.
Is that a good thing? That’s up to you and what you want. The reason the TCL appears brighter and shows lowlight objects when the Hisense does not is because the TCL tracks high on the EOTF (electro-optical transfer function) curve — in other words, it generally overbrightens images relative to the instructions it is given by the content. I’m not going to weigh this as a win or loss for either TV. It just is.
Processing But the same scene also shows where the QM8’s processing falls a bit short of the U8K’s. When examining the background of the scene where the light is cast against the backdrop, it at first looks like the light pool takes up a larger overall area on the QM8 than it does on the U8K. But look a bit closer and what you’ll notice is that what’s happening is the U8K is doing a better job with gradation.
The transition from light to dark is smoother, with less banding and stair-stepping on the U8K than on the TCL QM8, where there’s a hotspot of brightness here, then some mid-shaded area, another big step down, and then it just dumps to black.
Hisense U8K (left) and TCL QM8 Zeke Jones / Digital Trends The transitions on the QM8 from light to dark are not nearly as smooth as they are on the U8K. This is where the U8K wins ,and this is an important win because when we talk about cleaning up low-bit depth content like the kind we get from some streaming services – especially live TV streaming – as well as some cable and satellite channels, you’ll want that that cleanup effort the U8K is bringing to the table.
Hisense U8K (left) and TCL QM8 Zeke Jones / Digital Trends In sample after sample, the U8K offered smoother gradations, but tracked a touch dimmer than the QM8 across the board. You can see that in how much dimmer the flower in the scene above is at 3:35 before the light intensifies, and then again after it dims down. At 3:55, there’s more of the same, with smoother gradation on the Hisense U8K than the TCL QM8. Get the idea? Let’s move on to something else. And I’m afraid I have to pull out the old Spears and Munsil benchmark disc for this. I know, I know, we’ve seen it a million times, but it’s a known quantity, right? So we can really dig into a couple of scenes and pick apart the differences.
Obviously, I’m going straight for the horses in the snowy field.
Now this is content mastered to 1,000 nits, so well within the capability of both TVs, and they can decide how to spend their brightness headroom – let’s see what they do. They both do just fine, but the TCL has higher average brightness again.
Previous Next 1 3 1,000 nits Zeke Jones / Digital Trends 2,000 nits Zeke Jones / Digital Trends 10,000 nits Zeke Jones / Digital Trends Bumping up to 2,000 nits, again they both do fine. The TCL is maybe retaining a little more of the trees in the background, but both TVs are doing well with this content overall. Now, I don’t have a 4,000-nit setting here, but I suspect that the Hisense U8K could end up clipping a little hard and taking some of the background detail out in an ultrabright scene like this because, when we jump to 10,000 nits, we can see it do that. However, I refuse to fault the U8K with anything since nobody will ever be throwing 10,000-nit content at this TV, and in fact, the number of times it sees 4,000-nit content will be slim to zero. So, for all the content we get on a daily basis, both TVs handle it well, but the TCL is brighter on average. And so far, I’ve enjoyed that, but there are some instances in which it is not necessarily a pure blessing.
Hisense U8K (left) and TCL QM8 Zeke Jones / Digital Trends Let’s look at these scenes from the Spears and Munsil disc. Watch what happens when I pause just as the sun reflecting off the right-most mountain peak reaches its … well, peak in the TCL image.
Look, it’s blown out compared to the Hisense. It only lasts a second, but we can see more of it if we look for it. Here, the picture on the whole is brighter on the QM8, but look at the top of the mountain, where you can see better contrast on the Hisense U8K than you can on the TCL QM8 – there are more of the dark lines.
Hisense U8K (left) and TCL QM8 Zeke Jones / Digital Trends You can see a little of this in bright colors, too. Here, the top of this cactus flower looks just a little overblown on the QM8, whereas the color is deeper and the texture is more apparent on the Hisense u8K.
Hisense U8K (left) and TCL QM8 Zeke Jones / Digital Trends Finally, here, on the Ferris wheel, there is clearly more detail of the lights in the center on the Hisense U8K than on the TCL QM8.
As for motion resolution, resolution upscaling, and game mode picture quality, it’s pretty much a dead heat. So, where does that leave us? Verdict Well, from an everyday use standpoint, I tend to prefer the TCL. I like the remote better, I like the layout of the menu better, and I think I’m just going to enjoy interacting with this TV more.
From a sound quality perspective, the Hisense is better, though you could remove sound quality from your decision by getting a decent soundbar.
There are aspects of each TV that I want. I wish one TV did them all.
From a picture quality perspective, the Hisense does a better job with color gradation from lower-quality sources, which I think is worth weighing fairly heavily. But then there’s the overall brightness and low-luminance picture performance, where the TCL tends to stand out. The QM8 is just a brighter TV. So, if you need a lot of punch, the TCL is the better pick. And if you watch a lot of really dark content, the TCL could be a better choice for general visibility, while the Hisense tends to have less noise and macroblocking with the lowlight images it does show you.
So, for me? This is a very tough call. There are aspects of each TV that I want. I wish one TV did them all. But, if I had to choose, right now, I’m probably going to choose the TCL if I’m pressured, but I would be very pleased to own the U8K as well. Folks, it’s that close.
Now, as if this decision wasn’t hard enough, there’s the Sony X90L out there, too. And if that TV was in this mix here? It would be an even tougher decision. But … I would probably pick the Sony if this was a three-way competition. Again, that’s a very personal decision, and which TV you think is the winner comes down to your priorities. Hopefully, I’ve helped arm you with enough knowledge to make a decision. It’s going to be a tough one, as both of these TVs offer outstanding performance for the price. Perhaps the best news coming out of this comparison is that, no matter which TV you get, I think you’re going to be pretty happy.
Editors' Recommendations This stunning 85-inch mini-LED TV is $600 off at Best Buy Hisense just debuted the world’s largest mini-LED TV at 100 inches Hisense’s mini-LED U6K TV arrives, starting at $500 Are TCL and Hisense the next LG and Samsung? TCL QM8 Mini-LED TV hands-on impressions: I’m shook Versus Audio / Video CES is not only a great event for checking out all the latest tech — it's also a barometer. You can tell when a new development is picking up steam as each year more and more players jump on the bandwagon. Conversely, you sometimes can see when a given technology is falling out of favor, as fewer and fewer products and services mention it in their marketing.
At CES 2023, a sudden drop in the number of new 8K products has me wondering about the future of this format.
Only two TV players Scott Ramirez, vice president of product marketing and development for TCL home theater, at CES 2023. The company was mum on any new 8K sets at this year's conference. Phil Nickinson/Digital Trends Audio / Video When it comes to resolution, 8K picture technology is (slowly, but surely) what's coming next, with brands like Samsung, Sony, LG, TCL, and a host of others all offering 8K TV models that are engineered to take your breath away.
Delivering double the pixel count of 4K/UHD TVs, the best 8K TVs are also optimized to dish out incredible picture upscaling, as well as vibrant and colorful imagery, regardless of the source, and plenty of smart TV capabilities, too. And while TVs with 8K resolution collect a little less attention than today's leading 4K TV models, that doesn't mean they should be ignored. After all, hardware tends to drop before software, so we're hoping there'll be plenty of 8K content to enjoy over the next few years. Fingers crossed.
Audio / Video TCL has arrived at CES 2023 with a revamped TV lineup that has more than a few surprises. In addition to announcing its plan to sell its first QD-OLED TV in 2023, TCL is bringing its mini-LED backlight technology to its largest QLED model, putting the brand in direct competition with Samsung, the only other company that makes a 98-inch mini-LED QLED TV.
TCL has also decided to rename its models, abandoning its 1-, 3-, 4-, 5-, 8-, and 6-Series for a simplified approach that divides the company's TVs into two main buckets, the high-end, QLED-powered Q Series, and the more affordable, non-QLED S Series. TCL's 2023 soundbars will also follow this new naming convention with Q and S Series models.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
