Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Audio / Video Features I get more complaints about this tech than anything, but I can’t fix it By Caleb Denison Close I’ve reviewed enough bleeding-edge gadgets to know that not everything works right the first time. When stuff doesn’t work, I’ll wait patiently for a firmware update. I’ll sit tight until there’s a patch. I’ll even wait for the next version to see if it works better. Generally, I like to give brands and the very smart people who work for them the benefit of the doubt.
Who’s to blame? A handshake agreement Failing by default Can’t we all just get along? Where do we go from here? But after 14 years, HDMI ARC remains one of the most frustrating features I’ve ever dealt with. The once-promising technology that lets AV components from any manufacturer magically talk to each other rarely seems to work as intended.
Just this past week alone, I fielded questions and calls for help from three different friends because they could not get the sound from their TV to their soundbar or AV receiver using HDMI ARC. That’s just the latest addition to about 12 years’ worth of emails, DMs, and text messages about the exact same issue.
Yes, this is a very first-world problem. Nobody’s life is ended prematurely because their audio return channel doesn’t work. But we spend our hard-earned money with certain expectations, and there is no denying that this is a problem.
So why can’t we fix it? Who’s to blame? The truth is there is no one entity or person to blame, which makes it all the more frustrating. It’s not like we can email the CEO of HDMI and tell him to fix HDMI ARC. First, that’s not a tactic bound for success. Second, HDMI ARC — and HDMI in general — is bigger than its CEO.
HDMI ARC is just a symptom, not the actual illness. If HDMI ARC is a pool of blood on the floor, then HDMI CEC is the gushing artery. Sorry for the gory analogy.
Digital Trends HDMI CEC has been around since 2005, yet its baseline bugginess — its propensity to propel you into fits of madness because the seemingly simple solution is not at all simple and often just does not work — has remained a constant for 18 years. And honestly, it’s probably going to be as bad as it’s always been come its 20th birthday.
A handshake agreement The CEC in HDMI CEC stands for Consumer Electronics Control. It’s the protocol that allows your TV remote to adjust the volume on your soundbar, for instance. In an ideal world, HDMI CEC makes it possible for you to chuck most of your remotes in a drawer and forget about them, theoretically turning any remote into a universal remote. All the most common controls, volume up and down, channel up and down, power, that sort of thing — can be done through HDMI CEC.
HDMI CEC is what enables HDMI ARC to work at a very fundamental level. A little handshake between devices needs to happen before they can communicate, and HDMI CEC is the gateway for that communication. If HDMI CEC isn’t working, then a bunch of stuff isn’t working.
We know this to be true because if you turn HDMI CEC off on one of your devices, a cascade failure begins to take place. And that’s where our journey to madness begins, my friends.
Failing by default In order for anything that HDMI CEC enables to work properly, CEC has to be enabled on both ends of a signal chain. So, if we have an Xbox One X, and we want the TV to turn on when the Xbox is turned on, we need to make sure that CEC is enabled on both the Xbox and the TV. That right there is a problem! Most folks don’t know that CEC exists, therefore they are unaware that you need to turn CEC on for certain cool features to work.
Image used with permission by copyright holder I know that we live in a world where we prefer to opt-in than to have to opt out. But frankly, CEC should just be on by default. If it is really designed for convenience — you know, to make things easier — then you shouldn’t need to know about it to use it. AV novices will have far fewer issues if something that makes other things easier is just turned on out of the box. But that’s not entirely a solution.
Can’t we all just get along? Even if you have HDMI CEC turned on, that’s not a guarantee that things are going to work smoothly, because the goofy way HDMI CEC has been implemented makes it highly susceptible to issues.
Here is a scenario I hear all the time: Johnny has a Ford TV. (I’m not using actual TV brands here so nobody feels targeted.) His Ford TV is connected to a Chevy soundbar. These two devices have been working together just fine for years. But Johnny decides to upgrade his TV and goes with an Acura. Without any explanation, the same Chevy soundbar that works fine with Ford TVs, Toyota TVs, and even Yugo TVs, somehow doesn’t work with his new Acura TV.
Unless you need Dolby Atmos , optical inputs will work just fine.
Now, if Johnny were to also buy an Acura soundbar, there’s a good chance that it would work fine. Having the same brand of soundbar as his TV might even unlock some other cool features. But HDMI CEC is supposed to be brand-agnostic. For whatever reason, it doesn’t always work that way. Not because HDMI CEC itself favors one brand over another, but because there are multiple ways of implementing it. Different brands do it differently, and nobody is testing for interoperability. Sometimes two devices simply won’t talk — or talk well enough — and no amount of tinkering, adjustment, or slamming things against the wall is going to help.
Is that you? If you’ve been banging your head against a wall trying to make your TV work with your soundbar and they just won’t work, no matter what you do, let me say something I almost never say: Just give up. Try a different soundbar. Try a different TV. Or skip HDMI altogether and just use optical cables. Unless you need Dolby Atmos, optical will work just fine — it’s just another cable you’ll have to use, and you’ll lose inter-device control. But you’ll get sound, and maybe that’s enough to save your sanity.
Pouring some salt onto this wound of frustration is that a new version of HDMI ARC — that would be eARC — could and should be more reliable. By the numbers, perhaps it is when both of the devices you are using support eARC. But, purely anecdotally, I’m still hearing of troubles from time to time.
Where do we go from here? Some of my colleagues have suggested that I put the HDMI forum and HDMI licensing administration on blast for this. I haven’t done that so far because, frankly, I don’t understand where their responsibility ends and where manufacturers’ responsibility begins.
But my friends may have a point: If HDMI has a standard that companies should follow when using their technology, then perhaps they should enforce those standards. Would Apple ever license the “Works with iPhone” badge to a Lightning cable that doesn’t work when you plug it into an iPhone? You know they’d never even get the label to begin with, much less keep it.
Keep in mind that the HDMI Forum is made up of a bunch of companies. In other words, they are all the problem. So if they haven’t policed themselves so far, I don’t think they are going to.
I hate throwing my hands up and saying “It is what it is. Oh well. Guess we’ll just deal with it.” But, honestly, I’ve been shaking my head on this one for over a decade myself. Maybe I’m jaded and lack the fire in the pit of my belly motivation to go after some fools. Or maybe it’s been a problem for so long now, I’m convinced it can’t be fixed.
But if there’s a flicker of hope, it’s wireless signal delivery. We’re moving toward it, slowly. Just look at the LG M-Series we saw at CES 2023.
 That TV comes to market soon, and it may be the first of what I think will soon be the new normal.
Let’s not let wireless video become the same cauldron of frustration as HDMI ARC and HDMI CEC. We have an opportunity to loudly reject something that doesn’t work. We just need to organize around it. And perhaps that starts right here, right now.
Editors' Recommendations I can’t buy this awesome modern gramophone, so of course I want it even more Features Audio / Video In the spirit of the holiday shopping season, SVS Sound is offering some incredible deals -- and by incredible, we mean record-breaking for the brand. SVS Sound has actually never participated in Black Friday festivities before, and they may never do it again. So, this may be your only chance to save this big. You name it, it's discounted. There are speakers, subwoofers, sound systems, and more discounted. Take the Web With so many Black Friday deals already under way, it can be tough to keep on top of everything. Walmart has dozens of different awesome deals so we've narrowed things down to the best Walmart Black Friday deals currently available. There's a little bit of everything here with discounts on TVs, headphones, laptops, coffee makers, and much more. The retailer is also having a massive Black Friday Lego sale. Whatever you're considering buying, keep reading while we take you through some great options.
Other retailers have started early too, so check out Amazon Black Friday deals and Best Buy Black Friday deals.
Audio / Video Black Friday deals are historically the best time of year to buy a new TV with many retailers homing in on offering the absolute best prices on highly sought after TVs. With so many TV deals going on, we've focused on the best 55-inch TV Black Friday deals currently available. A great mid-range size for many homes, there are some awesome deals on big name brands including the best TV brands. Read on while we take you through what's out there.
Best 55-inch TV Black Friday deal TCL 55-inch Q5 Q-Class QLED TV -- $300, was $450 TCL makes some of the best QLED TVs and much of that quality is reflected in the TCL 55-inch Q5 Q-Class QLED TV. It has the ever attractive QLED panel paired up with useful features like a high brightness Direct LED backlight to provide an enhanced viewing experience. It also has Motion Rate 240 with MEMC Frame Insertion technology so you get fantastic motion clarity. Even when gaming, there's a fast 120Hz variable refresh rate to ensure no risk of motion blur. For picture quality, there's a HDR Pro+ package of Dolby Vision, HDR10+, HDR10 and HLG support for accurate colors and finer details.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
