Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Audio / Video Features Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? You Asked: Sonos setups, 5,000 nits, and dumb TVs By Caleb Denison Close In this installment of You Asked, the series in which we answer your TV-related questions in the hopes of helping you and others, we tackle trouble with Sonos, whether 5,000 nits of brightness is bad for the eyes, and if there is such a thing as a dumb TV.
Single Sonos surround? How bright is too bright? Nvidia Shield upscaling Help me help you Dumb TVs would be smart, right? Single Sonos surround? Zeke Jones / Digital Trends The first question comes from @ragoheads, who says: I’m unable to connect my single Era 300 to the Arc and sub. Do we need two Era 300s for these to connect? Based on your description of the situation, it sounds like you are trying to use just one Era 300 as a surround speaker in combination with the Sonos Arc and Sonos sub. To the best of my knowledge, there’s no way to set up just one surround speaker in a Sonos system. The Sonos setup system wants to see two speakers, one for the left channel signal and one for the right channel signal. I don’t believe the Sonos system has the ability to mix a stereo surround signal down to mono and route it through one speaker. So, yes, if you want to set up a surround system with Era 300 speakers, you’ll probably need two. I haven’t tried it, but I don’t think Sonos would allow you to mix two different Sonos speaker models, either. So, you probably couldn’t use, say, a Sonos Era 300 for the right surround speaker and a Sonos One for the left speaker.
Sony Bravia X95L mini-LED vs. TCL QM8 QLED: The best LCD TV and the one you should buy You Asked: Why we don’t buy the TVs we review You Asked: Why TVs with same model numbers have different specs You can use the Era 300 on its own as a music speaker or TV speaker by assigning it to a different room. And then you could just position it behind you in the room where your Arc and sub are, but it’s not going to be actual surround sound, and you might create more problems than you solve, so I wouldn’t recommend it.
How bright is too bright? Zeke Jones / Digital Trends @elmousse007 says: How bad would 5,000 nits be for the eyes? Well, it would depend on how much screen area was emitting 5,000 nits.
 If just little slivers of the screen are putting out 5,000 nits as highlights, then it might be intense, but it’s not going to cause problems. But the more screen area that is putting out 5,000 nits of brightness, the more the cumulative effect of that brightness will mount. Also, keep in mind that 5,000 nits of bright white light is going to hit different than 5,000 nits of red or green.
Nvidia Shield upscaling Phil Nickinson / Digital Trends @jaimedejesus759 writes: If I’m using an Nvidia Shield TV Pro, should I worry about the TCL QM8 upscaling? Admittedly, I’m not exactly sure what you’re asking here, but I’m going to guess that what you mean is that you’re concerned the TCL QM8 upscaling isn’t going to be good enough for your needs, and you’re wondering if you can set that concern aside because the Nvidia Shield does upscaling and maybe it is good enough or better than the QM8.
As usual, there isn’t a simple answer to what could be a simple question. The first thing I need to say is that upscaling and video processing are not one and the same. Upscaling is part of image processing, but image processing involves more than just upscaling.
I don’t take a huge issue with the TCL QM8’s resolution upscaling — it’s just taking low-resolution content and upscaling it to the panel’s native 4K resolution. It’s not as sharp as some other TVs, that’s true, but it is not objectively or subjectively bad. My main concern was with smoothing out color gradation on low-bit-depth content, which isn’t tied to upscaling.
I don’t know what your needs are; I don’t have enough information. What is the resolution of the content you need upscaled? What size is the TV you would have? Do you really mean resolution upscaling, or is it something else? I tend to think that the QM8 is probably going to do as well as, if not better than, what the Nvidia Shield Pro can do. But, you know what? I don’t have an Nvidia Shield Pro , so I can’t say for sure. I’m going to fix that, though. I need to get one in and just have it on standby, especially with what I’m seeing happen with certain apps on certain TV brands.
If you can get me more information, I might be able to get you a better answer. And that sentiment – with more information, I can provide a better answer – very much applies to the next question, and is exactly why I’m bringing this question up this week.
Help me help you Zeke Jones / Digital Trends @jaimedejesus759 also writes: As of today, the LG C3 65-inch is at the same price as the TCL QM8 75-inch. Which one should I buy? This question is a good example of why I can’t give a really helpful answer unless I have more information. And also why it’s hard for me to give individual buying advice in general.
There’s virtually no way for me to do the job of a salesman via text or email without there being a series of exchanges wherein I ask multiple qualifying questions. A great sales associate will seek to understand what your needs and goals are. And that is a dynamic, conversation-based process that is hard to mimic via text-based communication.
With Jaime, I’m curious to know how much importance he places on size and see how that contrasts with the importance he places on the quality of the image — and specifically what he feels makes a quality image. What kind of content does he watch, and what are the sources he uses for each type of content? Where is the TV going? Does he watch during the day a lot? How much does he watch at night? What are the priorities? In person, I’d probably spend 5 to 10 minutes doing that. Via email or DM or text, it could take multiple exchanges that could involve way more time than that.
People get paid to be personal shoppers and consultants, and I understand why. It takes time, effort, and skill to be good at it. I imagine you all realize that, too, which is why you try to make the questions simple and straightforward, in hopes that it won’t take a ton of time and I’m more likely to answer. But,I don’t want to give you half-assed help. So, I hope you’ll understand that I’m not going to be able to help many of you individually to make a purchase decision – I have to do that at a macro level. But if you are going to ask, be as detailed as you can. You have to help me … help you. Help ME, help you.
Dumb TVs would be smart, right? Zeke Jones / Digital Trends Kewitt writes: Is there such a thing as a dumb TV? Wouldn’t it be better to bundle a media box like Nvidia Shield versus the development and upkeep of one for every TV? I know my LG TV apps are out of date. My friend’s Philips TV stopped getting updates like four years ago.
And another along the same lines came from Alex del Castillo: Why are there no modern “dumb” TVs? My dream TV would be one that has five or six HDMI inputs and a tuner (only because it has to). With an interface to change the input and settings (which would include unused inputs). This way, I can connect only the devices I want.
Preach on, guys! You will find no greater ally than me in the advocacy of a dumb TV.
I would prefer to be able to have a completely dumb TV, where I can get access to TV settings and inputs, and prompt it for firmware updates if needed — and that’s it. No apps, no ads — just a TV ready to display what I tell it to. But I’m afraid that ship has sailed.
There are some practical reasons that TV makers can’t turn back to dumb TVs or make special editions of TVs without smart TV software loaded onto them. Some of them are the same reasons we won’t see TVs without speakers — it’s not feasible to make separate SKUs, at least not at scale without any guarantee they will be popular enough to sell and cover costs. Also, as I’ve said here before, not doing something (in this case, not putting a smart TV platform in a TV) isn’t necessarily as easy as it sounds. You’d think that just not doing it would be easier than doing it. But the basic TV functionality — menus, settings, picture quality adjustments — has been baked into smart TV operating systems. Breaking it back out requires that a different software run on the TV. So you’re not just not doing something, you’re forcing yourself to make something different. That costs money.
Speaking of money — and yeah, I’m afraid money is often at the heart of these things — the profit to be made on these TVs is so low (sometimes at a loss) that other ways of making revenue have been created to make sure that making TVs remains profitable. Those buttons on remotes that take you straight to a streaming app? Those are bought and paid for by the streaming services.
 That’s revenue. Driving viewers to certain pieces of content on certain streaming services ? That’s worth money. Advertising products through the TV? That’s worth money. And aggregate viewer data? That’s worth money, too.
Yes, you can buy a decent 55-inch 4K TV for $300 now.
 But there’s a cost that comes with that.
To its credit, Google TV at least has a “dumb TV” option that doesn’t exactly make it a dumb TV, but scales back how invasive the smart TV platform feels for everyday use. But it’s not really a return to dumb TV.
It’s frustrating, I get it. But, frankly, those of us who want dumb TVs are in the minority. Most folks are fine with it or actually want it.
Editors' Recommendations You Asked: streaming inequality, Dragon showdown, and holy grail TVs You Asked: Soundbars vs. receivers, TVs with no speakers, and car stereos Why TCL’s 5,000-nit X955 is a brightness bomb of QD-mini-LED You Asked: best TVs for bright rooms, when to use eARC, and more Bluetooth on Sonos’ new Era speakers isn’t what you think – it’s better Features Sonos You Asked Audio / Video Best Buy is staying true to its name, as the retail giant is churning out some impressive prices as part of its Black Friday deals. This is great news if you’re hoping to land a discount on a new TV this Black Friday shopping season. It’s pretty easy to find price drops on TVs, with even the best TVs seeing frequent discounts, but right now we’re seeing more significant TV deals taking place with Black Friday around the corner.
In Best Buy Black Friday deals you can currently find deals on top TV brands. If you want to look at individual brand's offers, check out Samsung TV Black Friday deals, Sony TV Black Friday deals and LG Black Friday deals. The smallest TV on this list is 43-inches, so if you need something smaller head over to 32-inch Black Friday TV deals. For something larger, browse 55-inch TV Black Friday deals and 70-inch TV Black Friday deals. If you just have a gift card to burn, or you're just loyal to Best Buy, check out some of the great Best Buy Black Friday laptop deals happening now too.
Audio / Video If you've been figuring out what size TV you should buy and it turns out 32 inches is just right, you may have found your options a little slimmer than with bigger TVs. While many of the best TVs are much bigger, you can still buy from some of the best TV brands as part of the Black Friday deals going on at the moment. There are some truly fantastic 32-inch TV Black Friday deals around with deep discounts to be found. We've picked out the very best deal while also featuring others you can check out.
Best 32-inch TV Black Friday deal Insignia 32-inch F20 HD Smart Fire TV -- $90, was $150 For a super cheap TV that will suit either your living room or your bedroom, the Insignia 32-inch F20 HD Smart Fire TV has all the essentials you need at this price. It might only have a 720p resolution but it has Fire TV built-in so it's simple to find all your favorite apps and thereby stream plenty of different shows and movies. Additionally, there's Alexa voice control support saving you from needing to grab your remote so often. Instead, you can speak to the TV to change input, change channel, find something to watch and all kinds of things.
Audio / Video If a 65-inch TV is the perfect size for your home theater setup upgrade according to our guide on what size TV to buy, then you shouldn't miss the discounts that are available in this year's Black Friday deals. There are offers involving some of the best TV brands, including LG, Samsung, and Sony, ranging from affordable choices to top-of-the-line models that require a hefty investment. Sony TV Black Friday deals have some cheaper 65-inch options, and Samsung TV Black Friday deals have some of the more expensive ones (think The Frame). Best Buy Black Friday TV deals and Amazon Black Friday deals cover the gamut, so check them out if brand and size aren't too important. You're going to have to be quick with your purchase though -- we're not sure how much stock retailers have available for these 65-inch TVs for the shopping holiday, so if you don't want to miss out, you'll need to complete your transaction as soon as possible.
For other sizes, browse the best 32-inch TV Black Friday deals, 55-inch TV Black Friday deals 70-inch TV Black Friday deals and 75-inch TV Black Friday deals.
The best 65-inch TV Black Friday deal Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
