Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: GTA 5 Cheats Print on a Chromebook Nothing Phone 2 Review Asus ROG Ally vs. Steam Deck Gameshare on Nintendo Switch Home Audio / Video Features You Asked: plasma TV replacements, cheap OLEDs, and Sharp’s return By Caleb Denison Close In this installment of You Asked, resident AV expert Caleb Denison answers your questions about the best plasma TV replacement, cheap OLED versus high-end LCD, the best cheap TV for movies, and what he thinks of the new Sharp mini-LED TV.
Plasma replacements Best TVs for motion Cheap OLED vs. high-end LCD Sharp TVs make a surprise return Plasma replacements Digital Trends Kevin Maple writes: I have a Pioneer 60-inch 1080p Kuro Plasma that, in many cases, outperforms, my two-year-old Sony 4K.
 I struggle with whether I should replace it. The viewing angle and black levels are better than my Sony, and it looks fabulous – and probably better with sports broadcasts that, for reasons you addressed, are still either 720p, 1080i, or 1080p. It has HDMI (but not the latest) and performs well with my AppleTV. What’s really to gain by dumping what is about a 14- to 15-year-old TV (dumb TV) for a newer $3,000-plus option? Budget’s not the roadblock; I just really don’t see newer TVs with broadcast TV and sports bringing any benefit. And in the case of viewing angle, LED seems to lose. I guess I would gain with Netflix 4K shows, but the old Pioneer does a great job with compressed video.
So, Kevin, I’m curious about what your Sony 4K TV is. But since you mentioned that the Kuro’s black levels and viewing angle are superior, I’m going to venture a guess that it’s an LCD-based TV. And, if that’s the case, yeah, I understand being reluctant to replace the Kuro with an LCD TV. That’s why I would suggest looking at OLED TVs, which have measurably superior black levels and off-angle viewing to your Kuro. And, I suspect, that if you were to buy a similarly sized TV to the Kuro, 65 inches would be the way to go, unless you want to downsize. Then you would notice that the OLED looks better in almost every way, save one: slow-panning shots on movies. That’s where OLED can have a sort of flashing effect because its pixels are so instantaneously fast that the movement of light from one pixel to the next can be a little jarring to some viewers.
You Asked 10: picture calibration, best budget buys, and premium small screens You Asked: streaming inequality, Dragon showdown, and holy grail TVs Sony Bravia X95L mini-LED vs. TCL QM8 QLED: The best LCD TV and the one you should buy Check out my video titled Plasma vs. OLED 2023 and see what you think. If you have more questions after watching that, please write again. But, also, I would suggest a 65-inch Sony A95K if you can get your hands on one.
Samsung F8500 Plasma Zeke Jones / Digital Trends @tomeliason3480 also had a plasma replacement question: My Samsung 8500 plasma just died. Should I go with the LG C2, LG C3, or TCL QM8? Mine, too! In the Plasma vs. OLED 2023 video I mentioned above, I used an F8500 plasma, and that TV just died about a week and a half ago. I’m not going to get too deep into it, but there was a tiny flame, a poof of smoke, and the main board was fried — this after the TV just went black, even though you could still hear audio. Does any of that sound familiar? I’m super curious, so please write in to YouAsked@digitaltrends.com and let me know. And once we get chatting, maybe we can dial in which TV you should get because — as I mentioned in the sixth installment of YouAsked — I need more info than you gave me.
Best TVs for motion Hisense U7K Zeke Jones / Digital Trends Continuing along that same theme, Daniele Amandolini writes: I own a 2016 Vizio M50. Some of the backlight zones have failed, and there’s a darker area on the screen. Safe to say, I’m ready for an upgrade. Other than your site, I also check Rtings reviews, and most TVs these days seem to suffer from motion issues when displaying 24 fps [frames-per-second] content. I am a cinephile (and a filmmaker myself) and I want a TV that shines in showing 24 fps content. Everything else is secondary.
I’m not asking for a specific model (I would like to stay in the $500/$600 range for a 50- or 55-inch panel), but rather something to guide me in finding TVs that do well in that specific area. What should I look for? How can I identify that specific strength/weakness in TVs? The showcase content at department stores is so misleading.
Furthermore, Rtings seems to highlight how TVs with faster response time (which is most of them these days) especially struggle with 24 fps content. Ironically, it seems like watching movies/shows has become a niche use case for TVs and I’m lost.
So, Daniele, I feel your pain. The first thing I want to say is that just about any TV I recommend to you is going to outperform your Vizio M50. TVs have come a long way since 2016. And, I would say that if you didn’t notice especially poor 24 fps performance on your Vizio, then you aren’t going to feel like you’re taking a step back with one of the much better-performing TVs today. For a 55-inch at around $600, I would suggest the Hisense U7K.
The problem with displaying film content today is that the very fast response time of today’s LCD TVs and the instant response time of today’s OLED TVs make very slow pans in films display the slowness of the frame rate in a way that many of us aren’t used to. You might think that faster-acting pixels would be a desirable attribute. And for many things, they are. But what happens in a slow pan is that the image is moving slowly, and it’s happening at a slow frame rate. So every time a pixel activates from dark to bright, you see that activation, and it appears as a sort of flash, or flicker. You can address this some by using motion smoothing. But if you use too much, then you lose the cadence of the film and it doesn’t look like film — it looks like a soap opera. One of the reasons I like Sony TVs for motion processing is that you can implement just a touch of motion smoothing and get rid of any undesirable effects while the movie still looks like a movie.
I hope that helps! Cheap OLED vs. high-end LCD Zeke Jones / Digital Trends Houston Lamb asks: From a cost-versus-picture quality perspective, are there situations in which you would recommend a cheaper OLED TV like the LG B series over a high-end LCD TV? No. Not anymore. A few years ago? Yes. Then, the perfect blacks of OLED could not be approached by LCD TVs, even the high-end models. And that perfect black yielded amazing contrast, so even though the OLED TV’s processing might not have been as good as a high-end Sony LCD TV, the delta in black-level performance between OLED and LCD was big enough that I would have opted for OLED. But today, many high-end LCD TVs are getting very close to OLED black levels, and so the better image processing in those high-end LCD TVs ends up being the tipping point. Right now, I might buy something like the Samsung QN90C over an entry-level OLED.
Sharp TVs make a surprise return Sharp Aquos XLED TV Sharp The most popular question this last week had to do with the new Sharp Aquos XLED mini-LED TV and if I’m going to review it and what I think about it. So, to these three who wrote in: @strpyw1 @arthurvandermark5397 , and @theworkoutgeek , thanks for asking. I know you represent more people who are wondering the same thing.
So, this is a little embarrassing to admit — I lost track of what was going on with Sharp back in 2018 or 2019. So, I was unaware, until very recently that Sharp owned its brand name and IP again. So, at first, when folks were like, “There’s a new Sharp TV out. What do you think? Are you going to review it?” my internal dialogue was “yeah, no, probably not. I’m already reviewing Hisense TVs.” For those of you who don’t know what the heck I’m talking about. Here’s the backstory: Sharp, like all Japan-based TV makers, was on the struggle bus back in 2014 and 2015. I suspect that the horrendous earthquake and Tsunami that struck Japan in 2011 had tremendous economic impacts that had ripple effects that were felt hard, much later after the event.
Meanwhile, South Korean companies like Samsung and LG and Chinese companies like Hisense and TCL were surging in popularity.
Toshiba and JVC ended up getting bought out just to license their names. Panasonic withdrew from the U.S. market. And Sharp sold licensing rights to Hisense for U.S. TV production in 2015. So, from 2015 to 2018 or so, if you bought a Sharp TV, you were buying a Hisense.
Now, although Sharp sold the licensing and manufacturing capacity it had in North America to Hisense, Sharp continued to be Sharp. Foxconn bought Sharp and was, until recently, the parent company, but Sharp, to some degree, was still the Sharp we knew from back when it made some of the best TVs you could buy.
Well, in 2019 — and this is where I lost track of the story — Sharp bought its name and all its rights back from Hisense. And it has been plotting a comeback ever since. I missed that. Full stop. It was buried in some industry gazette and I missed it! Then, the global pandemic, and busy, busy, busy, and here we are today. I didn’t know that the new TV you all have been asking about was actually made by Sharp.
I’m embarrassed. I feel like I should have known that. Please forgive me.
So, yes. I have to see this TV! I have no relationship with Sharp now, but I had better rekindle one. And yes, I guess there’s yet another TV coming in for review! I’m excited. It could be great. This could be huge — or it could be a letdown — but I’m going to stay optimistic.
Editors' Recommendations Sharp’s promised Roku OLED TV is now available and deeply discounted You Asked: Dolby Atmos and EDID, minimalist soundbars, and HDMI 2.1 You Asked: Sonos setups, 5,000 nits, and dumb TVs You Asked: Soundbars vs. receivers, TVs with no speakers, and car stereos You Asked: Why we don’t buy the TVs we review Features You Asked Audio / Video You’ve got questions, I’ve got answers! This is the third installment of our series where I tackle the excellent questions from the Digital Trends community. On this episode of You Asked: Will I review the Hisense UX TV? Why don’t we test TV temperature? Do I really just want to be Linus or Marques? Subwoofers for Apple Homepods, and much more.
Let’s dive in.
Audio / Video You’ve got more questions, I’ve got more answers. This is the second installment in a series that lets me answer some of the burning questions we get from the Digital Trends community. You all come up with great questions and we love them -- keep them coming! Overseas TVs Our first question today comes from @dragosmoldovan990 who wrote: I'm in Europe, and the AV landscape is kinda different here. Any chance for you to get a look at Philips OLED TVs, for instance? I know they are not available in the States but we simply have no good information sources here.
Audio / Video You’ve got questions, I’ve got answers.
This is our first installment of a new series we’re calling “You Asked” because, well, many of you have asked me a lot of questions. And while I do my best to reply to them -- in our YouTube comments, Instagram DMs, Twitter or … X or whatever it’s called, even via email -- there is just not enough time in the day, week, month, year, decade, or what’s left of my lifetime to get to all of them.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
